a  partly submerged glacier cave on Perito  मोरेनो  Glacier .
the   बर्फ  facade  is  approximately 60 m high
बर्फ  formations in  the   titlis  glacier cave
a  glacier cave is a  गुफा  formed within the ice of a glacier  .
Glacier caves  हैं   प्रायः   पुकारा  ice  गुफाएं   ,  but  इस  term  is  properly  प्रयुक्त  to describe  bedrock  caves  कि   contain   year-round   बर्फ   .
in  physics  ,  circular  गति  is a movement  of  an object along the  परिधि  of a circle or rotation along a  गोलाकार   पाथ  .
It can  be  uniform ,  साथ  constant angular  रेट   of  rotation (  और  constant  गति  )  ,  or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation  .
the   रोटेशन   around  a fixed axis  of  a three-dimensional  देह   involves  circular  गति  of its parts .
the  equations  of   गति  describe  the   गति   of   the  center  of  mass of a body .
उदाहरण   of  circular motion include  :  an artificial satellite orbiting the Earth at constant height , a  स्टोन   जिससे   is   tied  to a rope and  is  being swung  in   वृत्त  , a  car   turning   through  a curve  in   a  race track  ,  an  इलेक्ट्रॉन  moving perpendicular to  a   वर्दी  magnetic  फ़ील्ड  , and a gear turning inside  a  mechanism .
चूंकि   the  object 's velocity  वेक्टर  is constantly changing direction  ,  the moving object  is   undergoing  acceleration by  a  centripetal force in  the  direction  of  the center of rotation  .
Without this acceleration  ,   the  object  होता   मूव  in a straight  लकीर   ,  according to Newton  's  laws of  गति  .
Apollo  पंथ  is a fictional  अक्षर  from  the  Rocky  films  , initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World .
He was  निभाई  by  कार्ल  Weathers .
पंथ   था   अनेक  nicknames , including The Master of  विपत्ति  ,  the  King of  स्टिंग   ,  The  नाचना   विनाशक   ,  The  प्रिंस  of Punch , The One and Only and The Count of  मोंटे   fisto   .
शहरी  legend states that Apollo Creed 's name is a wordplay on the  रसूलों  ' Creed , a statement of belief used  in  Christian churches .
सब   of   अपोलो   's   चैंपियनशिप   झगड़े  were scheduled  लिये   the   15   गोलाकार   अलहदा  .
Championship fights did not convert  इससे  15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa  is   प्रायः   wrongly  credited  साथ  popularizing the  रेड  , white , and  ब्लू  trunks ; Creed was  the   पहला  man  to  wear them ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa  in   the  3rd and  4th  installments and finally by Tommy ``  the  Machine '' Gunn (  टॉमी  Morrison )  in  the  5th  installment ) although normally he wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
बाल्बोआ   's  signature colors were black and gold—colors  he   प्रयुक्त  in  the   नवीनतम   फिल्म   .
in  the United States  ,   the  title of  संघीय  judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States  और  confirmed by the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Senate pursuant to  the   नियुक्ति  Clause in Article  ii  of  the  United  राज्य  Constitution  .
in  addition  to  the  परम्  Court  of   the  United States  ,   जिनकी   अस्तित्व  and some  पहलुओं  of  जिनकी  jurisdiction  हैं   परे  the constitutional power  of  Congress  to  alter , acts of  कॉंग्रेस  have established 13 courts of appeals  (  also called ``  सर्किट  courts '' ) with appellate  क्षेत्राधिकार   over   अलग   regions   of  the United States  ,  and 94 United  राज्य  district courts .
Every  न्यायधीश   नियुक्त   to  such a  अदालत  may be  categorized   as  a  संघीय  judge ; such  स्थितियाँ  include  the   मुख्य   इंसाफ   और   संबद्ध  Justices of  the  Supreme  अदालत  ,  सर्किट  Judges of  the   न्यायालयों  of appeals , and district judges of the United  राज्य  district courts .
सब  of  ये  judges described  यूँ  far are referred to  sometimes  as `` Article III judges ''  क्युकी  they  कसरत   the   न्यायिक  power  vested  in the  न्यायिक  branch of the federal government by  आलेख  III of the U.S.  संविधान  .
in  addition , judges  of  the Court of  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Trade exercise judicial power  pursuant  to Article III  .
अन्य   न्यायाधीशों  serving  in  the federal courts  ,  including magistrate judges  और  bankruptcy judges , are  भी  sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President  nor  confirmed by the Senate , and their power  गर्भाशयी   इससे  Article I  बजाय   .
See  आलेख  I and Article III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a  छोटी  pocket-sized semi-automatic  पिस्टल   designed  by Beretta in Italy .
Production began  in  late  1984  , solely  in  the Beretta U.S.A.  सुविधा   in  Accokeek , Maryland .
It  is  a  further  development of the  beretta   मॉडल  20  ,   जिनकी   उत्पादन  ended in  1985  .
Variable Universal Life Insurance  (  often shortened to VUL  )  is  a  type  of   जीवन  insurance that builds a cash value .
in  a VUL  ,  the cash value can  be  invested in a wide  किस्में  of separate accounts , similar  to  mutual  निधि  , and  the  choice  of  which of the  उपलब्धियाँ  separate accounts  to  use is entirely up to the contract  मालिक  .
the  'variable '  घटक  in the  नाम  refers to this ability to  invest  in separate accounts whose  मान   vary—they  vary  क्युकी  they are invested in stock and/or bond  बाज़ार  .
The 'universal '  घटक   in   the  name refers  to   the  flexibility the owner has  in  making premium payments  .
The  प्रीमियम   can  vary from nothing in  a   दिए  month up to maximums  पारिभाषित  by the Internal Revenue Code  लिये  life insurance .
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that  रै  fixed premium payments that  typically  can  नहीं  be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an  स्वचालित   प्रीमियम  Loan  विशेषता  , or surrender dividends  to  pay a Whole Life premium  )   .
Variable  सार्वभौमिक  life is a  प्रकार  of permanent life  बीमे  ,  क्युकी   the  death  लाभ  will  be  paid  if  the  insured   मरता   कोई  time as long as  वहीँ   is  sufficient cash value to pay  the   लागत  of  बीमे   in  the  नीति  .
With  सबसे   if  not all VULs  ,  unlike whole life , there is no endowment age ( the age at which the cash value equals the death  लाभ   राशि  , which for whole  जीवन  is  typically  100 )  .
This  is  yet another key advantage  of   vul  over Whole  जीवन  .
With a typical  पूरे  life policy , the death  लाभ  is limited  to  the  फेस  amount  निर्दिष्ट   in   the  policy , and at  endowment  age , the face amount is  सब   कि  is  सशुल्क  out  .
Thus  साथ  either death or endowment , the insurance company keeps  कोई  cash value built  up   over  the  सालो  .
However , some participating  पूरे  life policies offer riders which specify that any dividends paid on the policy be used to  खरीदें  ``  सशुल्क  up  परिवर्धन  '' to  the  policy which increase both the cash  मान   और  the death benefit over time .
if  investments made in  the   पृथक  accounts  out-perform  the general account  of  the insurance company ,  a  higher rate-of-return can occur than the  फिक्स्ड  rates-of-return typical  लिये  whole life .
The combination over the  सालो  of no endowment age  ,   continually  increasing  मौत   लाभ   ,  and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts  of  a VUL  नीति  , this could result  in  higher  मान   to  the owner or beneficiary than  कि  of a  पूरे   जीवन  policy with the  वही  amounts of money paid  in  as  प्रीमियम  .
The outdoor  लकडी   बॉयलर  is a  रूपांतर   of   the  classic wood stove adapted for set-up  बाहरी   जबकि  still transferring the  ऊष्मा   to  interior buildings  .
A mound  of   लड़की  Scout cookies .
This mound contains 74  बाक्स   of  cookies
लड़की  Scout Cookies are cookies sold  by   लड़की  Scouts of the  यूएसए   (   gsusa  ) as one  of  its  प्रमुख  fundraisers for local Scout units  .
सदस्यों  of  the   gsusa  have  महरूम   selling   कुकीज़  since 1917 to raise funds  .
Girls  जो  participate can earn prizes  लिये  their  प्रयत्न  .
There are also  ईकाई   प्रोत्साहन   if  the  ईकाई  as a whole does  खूब   .
as  of 2007  ,  sales were  अनुमानित   at  about 200 million boxes per year .
University Hall
Purdue  विश्वविद्यालयों  , located in West Lafayette , Indiana , is  the  flagship  विश्वविद्यालयों  of the six-campus Purdue University system  .
Purdue was founded  on  May 6 , 1869 ,  as  a land-grant university when the Indiana General Assembly , taking advantage  of   the   morrill  Act  ,  accepted a donation of land  और   धन  from Lafayette businessman  जॉन  Purdue to establish a college of  विज्ञान   ,  technology  ,   और  agriculture in his name .
The first classes were  आयोजित  on September  16   ,  1874  ,   साथ  six  instructors   और  39 students .
Today  ,  Purdue is a member of  the   बिग  Ten  सम्मेलन  , and is  a  well known world-class research institution  .
Purdue  enrolls  the second  largest  student  देह   of  any  विश्वविद्यालयों   in  Indiana  as  well as  the  fourth  largest  international student population of any university in  the   संयुक्त  States .
purdue   offers   दोनो  undergraduate  और  graduate  कार्यक्रम  in  over   211   प्रमुख  areas of study , and is  खूब  known for  इसके  competitive  अभियान्त्रिकी  curricula  .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों  has also been highly influential in America 's history of  विमानन  ,  having   स्थापित  the first college  क्रेडिट   offered  in  उड़ान   प्रशिक्षण   ,   the  first  four-year  bachelor 's degree in aviation ,  और  the first university airport (  purdue   विश्वविद्यालयों  Airport ) .
Purdue  's  aviation technology  कार्यक्रम  remains  एक  of the most  प्रतिस्पर्धी  aviation-specific programs in the world .
In  the   mid-20th  century  ,  Purdue  's  aviation program expanded to encompass advanced  spaceflight   प्रौद्योगिकी  giving rise to  purdue  's nickname ,  पालना  of Astronauts  .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become  astronauts   ,  including Gus Grissom  (   एक  of  the  original  पारा  Seven astronauts  )   ,  Neil  आर्मस्ट्रांग   (  the first  व्यक्ति  to walk on  the  moon ) , and  यूजीन  Cernan  (  the  सबसे   हाल  person  to  walk on the moon  )  .
A sebaceous cyst ( )  is  a term that loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also known  as   epidermal  cysts  ;  L72.0 ) or pilar  cysts  ( also known as  trichilemmal  cysts  ;  L72.1 )  .
क्युकी  an epidermoid  गाँठ   originates   in  the epidermis  और   a  pilar cyst originates from  बाल  follicles ,  by  definition ,  neither  type of cyst is  सख्ती  a  वसामय  cyst .
The name is  regarded  as a  misnomer  as the fatty , white  ,  semi-solid  सामग्री  in  दोनो  of  ये  cyst  entities   is  not sebum  ,   लकिन   keratin  .
Furthermore , under the  सूक्ष्मदर्शी   neither  entity contains  वसामय  glands .
In  अभ्यास  ,  however  ,  the  terms are often used interchangeably  .
`` True ''  वसामय   cysts  are  अपेक्षाकृत  rare and are known as  steatocystomas  or , if  अनेक  ,  as   steatocystoma   मल्टीप्लेक्स  .
Modern  pointe  shoes .
The edge  of  the  टो  pad ,  जिससे  is inserted  between   the  foot and toe  बक्सा   लिये  cushioning , can be seen  on   the  right  पैर   .
a  pointe shoe is  a  type of shoe worn by  बैले   नर्तक  when performing  pointe  work  .
Pointe  जूते  developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless  और  sylph  -like   और  have evolved  to  enable  नर्तक   to  dance  en  pointe (  on  the tips of  उनके  toes )  लिये   विस्तारित  periods of  समय  .
They  हैं   सामान्यतः  worn by  मादा  dancers , though  पुरूष  dancers may  पहनें   उन्हें  for unorthodox roles such as the  भद्दा  stepsisters  in   सिंडरेला  , Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's  सपना   ,  or men  performing  as women in dance companies  ऐसे  as Les Ballets Trockadero  और   grandiva  .
They are manufactured in  a  variety of colors , most commonly  in   शेड्स  of light pink .
इस  tablespoon  रै  a  क्षमता  of about 15  ml  .
measuring  Spoons
in  the US and parts of Canada , a tablespoon  is  the largest  प्रकार  of spoon used for eating  इससे   a  bowl .
In  the  UK , Europe and most Commonwealth countries  ,   a   tablespoon  is a  प्रकार   of   विशाल   चमचा  usually used for serving .
in  countries where a  tablespoon  is a  सेवारत  spoon  ,  the  निकटतम  equivalent  to  the  us  tablespoon is  either  the dessert  चमचा  or the soup spoon .
A tablespoonful , nominally  the  capacity of  एक  tablespoon , is  commonly  used  as  a  माप   of  volume in cooking  .
it  is abbreviated as T , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn  .
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated  by  law and is subject to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement  ईकाई   )  is approximately 15  ml  ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges from  7  mL to 14 mL  .
In Australia one  tablespoon  (  मापन  unit ) is 20 mL  .
हैरी  Potter is a series of seven fantasy novels  लिखा   by  the  अंग्रेजों  author  J.  K. Rowling .
The  किताबे   वृत्तान्त  the adventures of  a  wizard , Harry Potter , and  उसके  friends  रोनाल्ड  Weasley and Hermione Granger , all of whom  हैं  students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft  और   wizardry  .
The main  स्टोरी  arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort , whose  aims   हैं   to   become  immortal  ,  conquer the  wizarding  world  ,  subjugate non-magical people , and  नष्ट  all  those   जो  stand  in   उसके  way ,  विशेषकर   हैरी  Potter .
Since the release of the  पहला  novel Harry Potter and  the   पारस   's  Stone on 30  जून   1997  ,  the  books have gained immense popularity  ,  critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide .
the  series has also  था  some share of criticism  ,   सहित  concern for  the  increasingly  अंधेरा  tone  .
,  the book  श्रेणी   रै  sold about 450  लाख   नक़ल  , making it the best-selling book series in  इतिहास   ,  and has been translated into  67   भाषाएं  .
the  last four books  consecutively  set  रिकॉर्ड  as the fastest-selling books in history .
A  श्रेणी  of  अनेक  genres , including  काल्पनिक  and  coming   of  age (  साथ   तत्व   of   रहस्य  , thriller ,  एडवेंचर  ,  और   रोमांस  ) ,  it  has  अनेक  cultural  meanings   और  references  .
according  to  रोलिंग   ,  the main theme is death  .
वहीँ  are  भी  many  अन्य   विषयवस्तु   in  the series  ,  such as  पूर्वाग्रह  and  भ्रष्टाचार  .
The initial  प्रमुख  publishers  of  the books  यहूद  Bloomsbury in  the  United  किंगडम  and Scholastic  दबायें   in  the  संयुक्त  States .
The  किताबे   have  since  महरूम  published  by   अनेक   प्रकाशक   विश्वव्यापी  .
The books , with  the   सातवाँ   किताब   विभाजित   into  two parts  ,  have been made into  an   eight-part  film series by Warner Bros. Pictures  ,  the highest-grossing film series of all time .
the   श्रेणी  also  originated  much tie-in  merchandise   ,  making  the   हैरी   कुम्हार  brand  लायक  in  excess  of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the success  of  the books  और   films  , Harry Potter has been used for a  थीम  park  ,  The Wizarding World of  हैरी  Potter in Universal Parks &  रिसॉर्ट  's  आइलैंड्स   of   एडवेंचर  .
RS-68 being  tested   at  NASA  's  Stennis Space Center  .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this  इंजन  's exhaust being  ज़्यादातर   अतितप्त   भाप   (  water vapor  इससे  its propellants , hydrogen  और   ऑक्सीजन   )
viking  5C rocket engine
A rocket engine , or simply `` rocket '' , is a  जेट  engine  कि  uses only stored  propellant   द्रव्यमान  for  forming  its high speed  propulsive  jet .
Rocket engines are reaction engines and obtain  thrust   in  accordance with Newton  's  third  विधि   .
चूंकि  they need no external material to form their  जेट  , rocket engines can be used for  spacecraft  propulsion as well  as  terrestrial uses , such as missiles  .
Most rocket engines  हैं  internal  दहन  engines ,  हालांकि  non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket engines  as  a  समूह  have the highest  exhaust  velocities  ,   हैं  by far the lightest  ,   लकिन  are the least propellant efficient of  सब  types of jet engines .
``  ... Baby One More Time  ''  is  a   सोंग   by   अमरीकी  recording artist  britney  Spears  .
It served as Spears 's debut single and  शीर्षक   track  from  उसके  debut studio  एल्बम   ,   ...  Baby One  अधिक   समय   (   1999  ) .
Written by Max Martin and produced by  मार्टिन  and  रामी  ,  ``  ...  baby  One  अधिक  Time ''  थी  released  on  September 30  ,  1998 , by Jive  रिकॉर्ड  .
After  रिकॉर्डिंग   और   sending   a  demo tape with an  अप्रयुक्त  song from Toni Braxton  ,  Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive  .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a  टीन  pop and dance-pop  सोंग  that refers to  a  girl who  संताप  breaking up with her boyfriend  .
The song received generally  अनुकूल  reviews  इससे  critics , who praised  इसके  composition  .
`` ... Baby One More  समय   ''   attained   वैश्विक  success ,  reaching  number  एक  in  प्रत्येक  country it charted .
It also received numerous certifications around the  संसार  , and  is  one  of   the   best-selling  singles of all time , with over 10  लाख   नक़ल   बेची   .
An accompanying  म्यूज़िक   वीडियो  , directed by Nigel Dick , portrays  स्पीयर्स  as a student from a Catholic high  स्कूल   ,   जो  starts to daydream that she is singing and dancing around the  स्कूल  ,  जबकि  watching her love interest from afar .
the  music video was later  संदर्भित  in the  म्यूज़िक  video  of  `` If  u   तलाश  Amy ``  (   2008  ) , where Spears 's fictional daughter is  वेश  with  a  similar schoolgirl outfit  जबकि  wearing  गुलाबी  ribbons in her hair .
In 2010 , the music  वीडियो  for ``  ...   baby  One More Time ''  थी  voted  the   तीसरा   सबसे   influential  video in  the   इतिहास   of  pop music  ,  in a poll  आयोजित   by  Jam !  .
Spears  रै   performed  `` ... Baby One More  समय   ''   in   a  number of  सजीव  appearances and in all of her concert tours .
It was the encore  of  the ... Baby One More  समय   दौरे  ( 1999 ) and Dream Within a Dream Tour ( 2001  )  ;  स्पीयर्स  also performed  remixed  versions  of  the song  दौरान  the  उफ़   !  ...
i   किया  It Again World Tour  (  2000 ) , The  गोमेद   होटल   दौरे  ( 2004 ) , The M+M  's  Tour ( 2007 ) , The Circus  अभिनीत  Britney  स्पीयर्स  ( 2009 )  ,   और  the Femme Fatale  दौरे   (  2011 ) .
`` ... Baby  एक  More  समय  ''  थी  nominated  लिये  a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance  ,  and has been included in lists by  ब्लेंडर  ,  रोलिंग  Stone and VH1 .
it  has been noted for  redefining  the sound  of  late 1990s music .
Spears  रै  named ``  ...  Baby  एक  More  समय  '' as one of  उसके  favorite songs  इससे  her career .
It  थी  also the final  सोंग  to be  निभाई  on  the   बीबीसी   's  music  कार्यक्रम  Top  of  the  चबूतरे   .
Cholera  is   an  infection  in  the  छोटी  intestine caused by the bacterium  vibrio  cholerae .
the   प्रमुख  symptoms  हैं  watery diarrhea  और  vomiting .
हस्तांतरण  occurs  primarily  by  पीने  water or eating food that  रै  been contaminated  by   the  feces ( waste  उत्पाद   )  of an infected person ,  सहित  one with no apparent symptoms .
The  गंभीरता   of   the  diarrhea and vomiting  can   सीसे  to  रैपिड  dehydration and  electrolyte  imbalance ,  और  death in  कुछ  cases .
The primary treatment  is  oral rehydration therapy , typically with  मौखिक  rehydration solution  ,  to  बदलें  water and  इलेक्ट्रोलाइट्स  .
If this is not tolerated or does not  provide  improvement  तेज़  enough ,  intravenous  fluids can also be used .
Antibacterial drugs are  फायदेमंद  in  those  with severe disease to shorten its  अवधि   और  severity .
Worldwide , it  affects  3–5  लाख  people and causes 100,000–130,000  मौतों  a  साल  .
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be  पढ़ाई  by  epidemiological  methods .
The Picture  of  Dorian Gray is the  तभी  published novel by Oscar Wilde ,  appearing  as the  सीसे  story in  lippincott  's  मासिक   पत्रिका  on 20 June  1890   ,   मुद्रित   as  the July  1890  issue of this magazine .
The  पत्रिका   's  editors feared the story  थी  indecent as  सुपुर्द   ,  so  वे  censored roughly 500 words , without Wilde  's  knowledge  ,  before  प्रकाशन  .
But even with that  ,  the story was still  greeted  with  आक्रोश  by British reviewers , some  of   जिसको   सुझाया  that Wilde should be prosecuted  on  moral  grounds   ,   अग्रणी  Wilde to  बचाव   the  novel aggressively  in   अक्षर  to the British  दबायें   .
Wilde later  संशोधित   the  story  लिये  book publication  ,  making  substantial  alterations ,  हटाना  controversial passages ,  adding  new  अध्याय  and including an aphoristic Preface which  रै  since become famous  in   इसके  own  सही   .
The amended version was  प्रकाशित   by  Ward , Lock and Company in  अप्रैल   1891   .
Some scholars believe  कि  Wilde would  आज  have  चाही   us   to  read the version  he   originally  submitted  to  Lippincott  's  .
The novel tells  of  a young man  नामित  Dorian Gray , the subject  of  a  पेंटिंग   by  artist Basil Hallward .
बेसिल   is  impressed  by  Dorian  's  beauty  और  becomes infatuated with him ,  believing  his beauty is  जिम्मेदार  for a  नई  mode in his art .
Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton , a  dost  of Basil 's ,  और  becomes enthralled  by   रब  Henry 's world  दृश्य  .
Espousing a new hedonism ,  रब  Henry  suggests   the  only things  लायक   pursuing  in life are beauty  और  fulfilment of  the  senses .
Realizing that  एक  day his beauty  होगा  fade  ,  Dorian ( whimsically  )   expresses  a  ख्वाहिश   to  sell his soul to ensure the portrait Basil  रै  painted  होता   आयु  rather than he  .
डोरियन  's  काश   is  fulfilled  ,   और  when  he   subsequently   pursues  a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as  a  reminder  of  the effect  प्रत्येक   अधिनियम   रै  upon  उसके  soul , with each sin displayed as a disfigurement  of   उसके  form  ,  or through  a  sign of  वृद्धावस्था  .
The Picture of  डोरियन  Gray is considered a  कार्य   of  classic Gothic  fiction  with a strong  faustian   थीम   .
sári  Gábor  (   born   6  February 1917 ) ,  ज्ञात  as Zsa Zsa  गैबर  (  )  ,  is   a  Hungarian -born American actress  जो  acted  in   supporting  roles  in  movies ,  on  Broadway , and occasionally  on  television .
Gabor  थी   भी  a socialite .
She began her stage career  in  Vienna at age 15 , and was  पहनाया   मिस  Hungary in 1936 .
She emigrated  to  the  संयुक्त  States in 1941  और   became  a sought-after actress with ``  यूरोपीय  flair and style '' ,  साथ   a  personality that `` exuded charm  और   अनुग्रह   ''  .
Her first movie role was as  supporting  actress  in  Lovely  to  Look At .
She later acted  in  We 're  नहीं  Married !
और   निभाई  one of  उसके  few leading roles in  moulin  Rouge (  1952  )  ,  directed  by  John Huston , who described  उसके  as a `` creditable  ''  actress .
Besides  उसके  film and television  दिखावे  ,  वो  is best known for having  नौ   पतियों  , including hotel magnate  कोनराड   हिल्टन  and  कर्ता  George  सैंडर्स  .
वो   एकबार  stated , `` Men  have  always liked me and I  have  always liked men .
But  i  like a mannish man  ,  a  man   जो   knows  how to talk to  और   दावत  a  स्त्री  – not just a man with  मांसपेशियां   .  ''
Bruce Lee  (  traditional  :   李小龍   ;  born Lee Jun-fan  ;  27 November  1940  – 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese  अमरीकी   martial  artist , actor ,  martial  arts  प्रशिक्षक  , philosopher  ,  and  फिल्मकार   .
The founder of Jeet Kune Do , Lee was  the  son of Cantonese  ओपेरा   स्टार  Lee Hoi-Chuen .
he   is  widely considered by  टीकाकारों   ,  critics , media and other martial artists to be  एक  of  the  most influential  martial  artists of all time , and a pop  संस्कृति  icon of  the   20th  century .
He is often credited with helping to change the  रास्ता  Asians were presented in American films .
Lee was born  in  Chinatown ,  सैन  Francisco on 27 November  1940  to  अभिभावक   इससे   हांग   काँग  and was raised  in   कोलून   साथ  his family  जबतक  his late teens .
He was introduced  to  the film  उद्योग  by his  पिता  and  appeared   in   अनेक  films as a  चाइल्ड  actor .
ली  moved to  the  United  राज्य  at the  आयु   of  18 to receive  उसके  higher  शिक्षा  , and it was during this time  कि  he began teaching  martial   कला  .
उसके   हांग  Kong and  हॉलीवुड   -उपजd  films elevated the traditional Hong  काँग   martial   कला  film to a  नई  level  of  popularity  और  acclaim  ,  sparking a surge of interest in Chinese  martial  arts in  the  West  in  the 1970s  .
The direction and  टोन  of  उसके  films  बदला  and influenced martial  कला  and martial arts  films  in  हांग  Kong and the rest of  the  world  .
He is  विख्यात  for his roles  in   पाँच   feature-length  films : Lo Wei 's The Big  boss   (   1971  ) and Fist of  फ़्यूरी  ( 1972  )  ; Way of the Dragon (  1972  )  ,   निर्देशित  and written  by  Lee  ;  Warner Brothers  '   डालें   the   ड्रैगन  ( 1973 ) and The Game  of   मौत  (  1978  ) , both  निर्देशित   by  Robert Clouse  .
ली  became an iconic  फिगर   ज्ञात  throughout  the   संसार  , particularly among the Chinese , as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in  उसके  films .
he  initially trained  in  Wing Chun  ,  but later  अस्वीकृत   well-defined  martial art  शैलियाँ   ,   favouring  instead the  उपयोग  of techniques  इससे  various sources , in  the  spirit  of  his personal  martial  arts  दर्शनशास्त्र   ,  which  he  dubbed Jeet Kune  do  (  the   रास्ता  of  the  Intercepting Fist  )   .
Lee held dual citizenship  of  Hong Kong and  the   संयुक्त  States .
he   died  in Kowloon Tong on 20 July 1973 at  आयु  32 .
Chronic  obstructive  pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also  ज्ञात  as chronic  obstructive  lung disease ( COLD  )  ,  दीर्घकालिक  obstructive  airway   बीमारी  ( COAD  )  , chronic airflow  limitation  ( CAL ) and chronic  obstructive  respiratory disease  (   cord  ) , is the occurrence  of  chronic  ब्रोंकाइटिस  or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing  रोगों   of  the lungs in which  the   एयरवेज़   सीमित  over  समय  .
This limits airflow to  और   इससे  the  फेफड़े  ,  causing  shortness of  साँस  (  dyspnea   )  .
In  नैदानिक   अभ्यास  ,  copd   is  defined by its  characteristically  low airflow on  फेफड़ों   फलन  tests .
In contrast to  दमा  , this  limitation   is  poorly reversible  और   प्रायः  gets  progressively   बदतर   over  time  .
COPD is caused  by  noxious particles or gas ,  सबसे  commonly from tobacco  धूम्रपान   ,  which  triggers  an abnormal  जलन  response in the lung .
the  diagnosis  of  COPD  requires   फेफड़ों  function tests .
Important management  रणनीति  are  धूम्रपान   cessation  ,  vaccinations   ,  rehabilitation ,  और  drug therapy ( often using  inhalers   )  .
Some  मरीजों   go   on   to  require long-term oxygen  चिकित्सा  or lung transplantation .
विश्वव्यापी  ,  copd  ranked  as  the  छठे  leading  कारण  of death in  1990   .
It is projected  to  become the  चौथी  leading cause of death  विश्वव्यापी  by 2030 ,  due   to  an  बढ़ाएँ  in smoking rates  और  demographic  परिवर्तन  in many countries  .
COPD  is  the  तीसरा   अग्रणी  cause of death in the  u.S.  , and  the  economic  बोझ  of  copd  in the U.S. in 2007  थी   $  42.6 billion in health care costs  और  lost  उत्पादकता   .
Annelies ``  ऐनी   ''   मारी  Frank  (  , ?  ,  ;  12  June  1929early  March 1945  )   is   एक  of the most discussed  यहूदी   पीड़ितों  of  the  Holocaust .
Her diary has  महरूम  the  आधार  for several plays and films  .
born  in  the  city of  फ्रैंकफर्ट   am   प्रमुख  in  वाइमर  Germany ,  वो   जिया   सबसे  of her life  in   or  near  एम्सटर्डम  ,  in  the  नीदरलैंड्स  .
Born a German  नेशनल   ,  Frank lost  उसके  citizenship in 1941  .
She gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published .
It  दस्तावेज़  her experiences hiding  दौरान  the German occupation of the  नीदरलैंड्स  in  संसार  War II  .
the  Frank  परिवार  moved  इससे   जर्मनी  to  एम्सटर्डम  in 1933  ,   the  year the  nazis  gained control  over   जर्मनी   .
By the  शुरूआत  of 1940 , they  यहूद  trapped in Amsterdam  by  the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands .
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942 ,  the   परिवार  went  into  hiding  in  the hidden rooms  of   ऐनी  's father , Otto Frank 's  ,  office building .
बाद  two  सालो   ,  the group  थी  betrayed and transported to concentration camps .
Anne  फ़्रैंक  and  उसके   सिस्टर  , Margot , were eventually transferred to  the  Bergen-Belsen concentration camp ,  जहाँ   वे   died   of  typhus  in  March  1945  .
Otto Frank  ,   the   तभी  survivor of  the   परिवार  ,  लौटे   to   एम्सटर्डम  after  the   युद्ध  to  ढूँढें  that Anne 's  डायरी  had been saved , and his efforts led to its  प्रकाशन  in  1947   .
It  थी  translated  इससे  its original Dutch  और  first  प्रकाशित  in English in  1952  as The  डायरी  of a Young Girl  .
It has since been translated into many  भाषाएं  .
The diary , which  थी  given  to   ऐनी   on  her 13th  जन्मदिवस   ,  chronicles her life  इससे  12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944  .
Kurt  's  signature
Kurt Donald Cobain  (  February  20  ,  1967  – April 5 ,  1994   )  was an American musician  और   कलाकार   ,  best known  as  the lead  सिंगर   ,  guitarist  और  primary songwriter of the grunge band  निर्वाण   .
कोबेन  formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic  in  Aberdeen  ,  Washington in  1985  and established it as  भाग  of the Seattle music scene  ,  having its debut album Bleach  released  on the  स्वतंत्र  record label Sub Pop in 1989  .
After signing with major label DGC  रिकॉर्ड  , the  बैंड   मिला   भेदन  success  साथ  `` Smells Like  टीन   स्पिरिट  ``  इससे  its second album  nevermind  ( 1991  )   .
Following the success  of  Nevermind  ,   निर्वाण  was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X , and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however  ,   थी   प्रायः  uncomfortable  और   कुंठित   ,   believing  his message and artistic vision  to  have been misinterpreted by  the   पब्लिक  ,  साथ   उसके   निजी   मुद्दे  often subject  to   मीडिया   ध्यान  .
He challenged  निर्वाण   's  audience with its final studio album In  utero   (  1993 ) .
दौरान  the last years of his life  ,  Cobain struggled with  हेरोइन  addiction , illness  और  depression .
he  also  था   परेशानी  coping  साथ   उसके  fame  और   पब्लिक  image ,  और  the professional  और  lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself  और  his wife , musician Courtney Love  .
On  अप्रैल  8 ,  1994   ,  Cobain  थी  found  मुर्दे  at his home  in   सिएटल  ,  the   शिकार  of  कया  was officially  शासित   a  suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun  घाव   to  the head .
the  circumstances of his death  at  age 27 have become a topic of public fascination  और  debate .
Since their debut  ,  Nirvana  ,  with Cobain as a  songwriter  , has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and  over  50 million worldwide .
Radial engine timing  और  cam  यांत्रिकी  .
click   लिये   पूरा  resolution animation .
Radial  इंजन  of a biplane
Master rod ( upright  )   ,   स्लेव  and balances from a two-row , fourteen-cylinder  pratt  &  व्हिटनी  Twin  बर्र
The radial engine is  a  reciprocating type  आतंरिक  combustion engine configuration in which  the  cylinders  पाइंट  outward from a  सेंट्रल   crankshaft  like the spokes  of  a  व्हील   .
It resembles  a   stylized  star when viewed  इससे  the  सामने   ,   और  is called a  ``  star  इंजन   ''   (  German Sternmotor ) in some languages  .
The  रेडियल  configuration was very commonly  प्रयुक्त  in aircraft  इंजन  before turbine  इंजन  became predominant .
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom , created by Susan Harris  ,   कि  originally aired on NBC from  सितंबर  13 , 1985  ,   to  May  9  ,  1992  .
Starring  bea  Arthur  ,  Betty White  ,  Rue McClanahan  और   estelle  Getty , the show  centers  on four older  महिलाओं  sharing  a  home in  मियामी   ,  Florida  .
It was produced  by   witt/thomas/harris  Productions  ,  in association with Touchstone Television , and Paul Junger Witt ,  टोनी  Thomas , and Harris  परोसा   as  the original executive producers .
The  सुनहरी  Girls  प्राप्त  critical  acclaim  throughout most of its  चलाएं   और  won several awards ,  सहित  the  प्राइमटाइम  Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy  श्रेणी  twice .
It  भी  won three Golden  ग्लोब   पुरस्कार   लिये  Best Television Series –  musical   or   कॉमेडी  .
All four  सितारों  each received an  एमी  Award throughout the series '  चलाएं  and had  अनेक  nominations .
the  series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated  कार्यक्रम  for six  आउट  of its seven  सीज़न  .
Deepwater  खुदाई   is  the process  of  oil  और   गैस  exploration and production in depths of  अधिक   than  500  फीट  .
by  this definition , there are approximately 600  deepwater  wells  in  the Gulf  of  Mexico  .
it  has been  economically   infeasible  for many years  ,   लकिन  with  उठती  oil prices , more companies are investing in  इस  area .
Major  कंपनियाँ   working  in  इस   सेक्टर  include Diamond Offshore  ,  TransOcean , and Baker  ह्यूजेस   .
वहीँ  are basically two kinds of mobile  deepwater   खुदाई   rigs  : semi-submersible drilling  rigs   और  drillships  .
Drilling  can  also be performed  इससे  a  fixed-position  installation such as  a  floating spar  (  platform )  or  tension-leg platform .
हाल  industry  विश्लेषण  has estimated  कि   the   कुल  expenditure in the  वैश्विक  deepwater infrastructure market  होगा  reach $ 145bn  in  2011 .
“not   सब  oil  is   accessible  on land or in shallow  जल   .
You  can  find some oil  जमा  buried  गहन  under the  समंदर   floor.”  ... Using sonic equipment  ,   आयल  companies determine  the  drilling sites most  संभावित  to produce oil  .
Then they use  a  mobile  offshore  drilling unit ( MODU ) to dig the initial well  .
कुछ  units are converted into production rigs ,  अर्थ  they switch from drilling for oil to capturing oil  एकबार  it 's  मिला  .
Most of the  समय  ,  the  oil company will  बदलें  the MODU with a more permanent oil  उत्पादन  rig to  कैप्चर   oil.”   ...  The  मोदू  's job is to drill down into  the  ocean 's floor to  ढूँढें  oil deposits .
the  part of  the  drill that extends below the deck and  through  the water is called  the   riser  .
The riser allows for drilling fluids  to  move between the floor and  the   रिग  .
Engineers  निम्नतर  a drill  स्ट्रिंग  -- a series of pipes  designed  to drill  bas  to the  आयल  deposit --  through  the riser.”
“The  विस्तार   of  deepwater drilling is happening despite accidents in  offshore   फ़ील्ड  ... ”
In  2010  a large explosion occurred killing  11  workers and spilling millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf  of  Mexico while  a  BP oil rig was drilling in deep  waters  .
“  ...  despite  the risks , the deepwater drilling trend is spreading  in  the Mediterranean and off  the  coast  of  East Africa after a string of huge discoveries  of  natural gas.”
“The reason for  the  resumption  of  such  खुदाई  ,  विश्लेषक  say  ,   is   continuing  high  माँग  for energy worldwide.”
America needs  the   आयल  so  it   is  almost necessary  to  face the  ऊँची  risks that  आइये  with deepwater  खुदाई  in  अनुक्रम  for Americans to continue to carry on  उनके  everyday  जीवनदान   .
“The  उर्जा  Department recently projected that  गल्फ  oil  उत्पादन  would expand  इससे   इसके   2011  level  of  1.3 million barrels  a  day , still nearly a  क्वार्टर  of total  घरेलू  production , to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
Deepwater  खुदाई   affects  the environment  in  both negative and positive ways  .
हालांकि   deepwater   खुदाई   rarely   कल्याणकारी  oil spills it is still  a  hazardous  संभावित  outcome .
आयल  spills result in oil sinking to the bottom  of   the  ocean smothering plant life  leaving  fish without food and  आश्रय  to  जीवित  .
On the other  हाथ  deepwater drilling  प्रभाव  the environment in a positive ways too .
In time  एकबार   the  deepwater  आयल  well is  नहीं  in  उपयोग  anymore plants will  grow  on  और  around  the  well making a cave or cavern  जैसे   आश्रय  ideal for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling  भी   lets  us see  the  depths of the ocean floor  कि  are hardly  कभी  seen .
”Cameras  on  rovers at the bottom of the wells  रिकार्ड   फुटेज  and  लो  photos of rare fish that are  in   वहीँ  natural  आवास   ,   giving   वैज्ञानिक  a  dekh  at animals they  rarely   seen”  ( Chevron Corporation  )   .   ''
Monica Samille  lewinsky   (   born  July  23  , 1973  )  is an American woman with whom United States President Bill Clinton  admitted  to having had an ``  improper  relationship ''  जबकि   वो  worked at the  श्वेत  House in  1995  and 1996  .
The affair and  इसके  repercussions (  जिससे  included Clinton 's  महाभियोग  ) became known as  the  Lewinsky scandal .
फ्रांसिस  Albert `` Frank ''  सिनात्रा  ,  ,  ( December 12 , 1915 – May 14 , 1998  )  was  an  American  सिंगर  and  फिल्मी   कर्ता   .
Beginning his  musical   करियर  in  the  swing  era  with Harry James and Tommy  dorsey  , Sinatra found unprecedented success as a solo artist  इससे   the   जल्दी  to mid-1940s after being  हस्ताक्षरित  to Columbia Records in 1943  .
Being the idol of the `` bobby  soxers  `` ,  he   released  his  पहला   एल्बम   ,  The Voice of  फ़्रैंक  Sinatra  in  1946 .
His professional career had  stalled   by  the  1950s   ,  but it was reborn in 1953 after  he   जीती  the Academy Award  लिये  Best Supporting  कर्ता   लिये  his  प्रदर्शन  in  इससे   यहाँ  to  शाश्वत  .
he  signed with Capitol Records in  1953  and  released  several critically  lauded   एल्बम   (   ऐसे  as In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for Swingin ' Lovers ! , Come  मक्खी  with  me  , Only the Lonely and  nice   'n  ' Easy )  .
सिनात्रा   बाएँ   कैपिटल   to  found his own record label , Reprise Records  in   1961  ( finding success with albums  ऐसे  as Ring-a-Ding-Ding !  ,  Sinatra at the  sands  and  फ्रांसिस  Albert Sinatra  &  Antonio Carlos Jobim )  ,   toured  internationally , was a founding  सदस्य   of  the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen , including  जॉन  F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in  1965  , recorded the retrospective September  of  My Years , starred  in   the  Emmy -winning  टेलीविज़न  special Frank  सिनात्रा  : A Man and His  म्यूज़िक  , and scored hits with ``  अजनबी   in  the Night `` and  ``  My Way ``  .
साथ  sales  of  his music dwindling  और  after appearing in  अनेक  poorly received  films  ,  सिनात्रा   रिटायर्ड   लिये  the first time in 1971  .
दो  years later  ,   however  , he came out of retirement and in 1973 recorded  अनेक  albums ,  स्कोरिंग   a  Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows  as   a   घर   आधार   ,   he   toured  both within the United States and internationally , until  a  short  समय  before  उसके  death in  1998  .
Sinatra also forged  a  highly successful  करियर  as a film actor .
After  जीतना  Best Supporting  कर्ता  in 1953 ,  he  also  garnered  a  नामांकन  for  बेहतरीन  Actor  लिये  The  man  with the  सुनहरी  Arm  ,  and critical acclaim  लिये  his performance in The Manchurian Candidate  .
He  भी  starred in such musicals as High  समाज  , Pal  जॉय   ,  Guys and  डॉल  and On  the  Town  .
Sinatra was  सम्मानित  at the Kennedy Center  honors   in  1983 and  थी   awarded   the  Presidential Medal  of  Freedom by Ronald  reagan  in  1985  and the Congressional Gold  पदक  in 1997 .
He was  the  recipient of  ग्यारह   ग्रैमी  Awards ,  सहित  the Grammy Trustees Award  ,   ग्रैमी   लेजेंड  Award and  the   ग्रैमी  Lifetime Achievement Award .
Sinatra  is  also one  of  world’s  best-selling   कलाकारों  of all  समय  ,  having  sold more than 150 million copies worldwide  .
Typical cornhole board
cornhole  , also known as bean bag toss  ,  corn  टॉस  , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in which  खिलाड़ी  take turns throwing corn hole  बैग   at  a  उठाया  platform with  a  hole in the far end .
a  bag in the hole scores 3 points , while  एक   on  the  मंच   स्कोर  1 point  .
Play  continues   जबतक  a team or player reaches the score  of  21 .
The  अमरीकी  Gold  त्रिभुज  is an official gold bullion coin of the United  राज्य   .
Authorized  अंतर्गत  the Gold Bullion  सिक्का  Act of 1985  ,  it was first  released   by  the United States Mint in 1986 .
बिक्रम   योग  is a system of yoga that  बिक्रम  Choudhury  synthesized  from traditional hatha  योग   तकनीकों  and popularized beginning in  the  early 1970s .
All Bikram  योग  classes  चलाएं  for 90 minutes  और  consist of the same series  of  26 postures and 2  श्वास  exercises .
Bikram  योग  is ideally practiced  in  a  रूम  heated to 105°F (  ≈  40.6°C )  साथ  a  आर्द्रता  of 40  %  , .
Christopher Michael  massey  (  born  26 January 1990  )   is  an American actor , comedian and rapper best  ज्ञात  for starring as Michael  barret  in  निकलोडियन   टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी  Zoey  101  .
massey  has received  अनेक   पुरस्कार   और  nomination including  a   यंग   कलाकार  Award and Emmy  पुरस्कार   nominations  .
He is also  ज्ञात  for appearing in several commercials in  the   जल्दी  2000s .
A  conventional   teaspoon   बना   of  stainless  स्टील  .
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery  and/or   a  measuring  यंत्र   ,  as  खूब  as a unit of measurement of volume in  कुछ  countries  और  customs  .
A  फर्न   is   कोई  one or  अधिक   of  a group of about  12,000  species of  पौधे   belonging  to the botanical group known as Pteridophyta .
नापसंद  mosses  ,  they  have   जाइलम   और   फ्लोएम  ( making them vascular plants )  .
They have stems , leaves  ,  and  जड़ें   जैसे  other  vascular   पौधे   .
ferns   reproduce  via spores  और   have  neither seeds nor flowers  .
By far the largest group  of  ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , but ferns as  पारिभाषित  here ( also  पुकारा   monilophytes  ) include  horsetails  ,  whisk   ferns   ,   marattioid  ferns  ,  and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term  pteridophyte  also refers to ferns and a  few  other seedless vascular plants ( see  वर्गीकरण   खण्ड   नीचे  ) .
Ferns first appear in the  चट्टान  record 360 million  सालो  ago in the  carboniferous   लकिन  many of the current families  और  species did not appear until roughly 145 million years ago in the early Cretaceous  (  after  flowering  plants came to  dominate  many  environments  )  .
Ferns are not of  प्रमुख   आर्थिक  importance  ,  but  कुछ   हैं  grown  or  gathered for food  ,  as ornamental  पौधे  , for remediating contaminated soils  ,  and  have  been  the  subject of research  लिये   उनके  ability to remove some  रासायनिक  pollutants from the  एयर  .
Some  हैं  significant  weeds   .
They also play a  भूमिका  in mythology , medicine , and  आर्ट  .
Flat roofs in  इसराईल
Flat  छत   in  Los Angeles
A flat roof  is  a  प्रकार  of  covering  for  a  building .
In  कंट्रास्ट  to the  अधिक  sloped form  of  roof  ,  a  चपटा  roof  is   आड़ा   or  nearly horizontal .
The  ढलान  of a  छत  is properly known as its pitch  :  Roofs which are nearly flat are  ज्ञात  as low-pitch roofs (  as  the angle of slope  increases   ,  so the  पिच  is said to increase )  .
Any sheet  of   सामग्री   प्रयुक्त  to cover a flat or  low-pitched  roof is  प्रायः  known  as  a membrane and the primary purpose  of   ये  membranes  is  to  waterproof  the roof area  .
Materials  कि   कवर  flat roofs typically  allow   the  water to run  बंद  from  a  slight inclination or camber into  a  gutter system .
Water from  कुछ   चपटा  roofs such as  on  garden  sheds  sometimes flows freely  बंद  the edge of a roof  ,   हालांकि   gutter   प्रणालियों  are of  लाभ  in keeping both  दीवारें  and  मूलाधार  dry  .
Gutters on smaller  roofs  often lead  जल  directly onto  the  ground , or better  ,   into  a  विशेषकर   बना  soakaway .
ड्रेनेज   on   larger   roofs   प्रायः  lead  जल  into  the  rainwater drainage  प्रणाली  of any built up area  .
occasionally   चपटा   roofs  though  हैं   designed  to  collect   जल   in  a pool ,  प्रायः  for aesthetic purposes , or for  rainwater  buffering  .
Flat roofs exist all  over  the world and each  क्षेत्रफल  has its own tradition or preference  लिये  materials  प्रयुक्त  .
In warmer climes where rainfall is  कम   और  freezing  is  unlikely  to   occur  , many flat roofs are simply built  of  masonry or  कंक्रीट  and  इस  is  शुभ   at  keeping out  the   ऊष्मा  of the sun  और   सस्ती  and easy to build where timber is not readily  उपलब्धियाँ  .
In  क्षेत्रों   जहाँ  the roof  could  become  संतृप्त   by   बरसात   और  leak  ,   or   जहाँ  water soaked  into   the  brickwork  could  freeze to  बर्फ  and  यूँ  lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up  of  the  mortar/brickwork/concrete  by the expansion  of  ice as  it  forms ) these roofs are  नहीं  suitable .
Traditionally most flat  roofs   in  the  पश्चिमी   संसार   मेक  use of tar or more  प्रायः   तारकोल  paper applied over  छत   अलंकार   to   रखना  a building  watertight  .
The tar  or   tarpaper  is  in   फेरे  covered  in   बजरी  to keep the  सूर्य  's heat , UV rays  और  weather off it and helps protect it from  cracking   or  blistering  और  degradation .
छत   अलंकार  is usually of plywood  ,  chipboard or  osb  boards ( OSB = Oriented Strand Board , also  ज्ञात  as Sterling board ) of  around  18mm thickness .
the   तारकोल  coating is applied in one  or  more coats as a hot liquid ,  heated   in   a  tar kettle  ,  or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper  '  glued down and sealed together at  joints  by hot  तारकोल  - once it has  cooled   ,   the  gravel is  स्प्रेड  evenly over it  .
a  main  कारण   लिये  failure of  ये  traditional roofs  is  ignorance or lack  of  maintenance where people or events  कारण  the  बजरी  to be moved  or  removed from  the  tar or tarpaper waterproofing ,  यूँ  exposing  it  to weather and sun whereupon  cracking  and  blistering   occurs  over time and eventually  जल  gets  in   .
tarpaper  is  प्रायः   a   'paper   '  or fibre material  soaked  or impregnated  in   तारकोल   .
as   बजरी   can  not protect tarpaper surfaces where  वे  rise vertically from the roof such as on  मुंडेर  walls or  upstands  ,  tarpaper  variants are  उत्पादित   साथ  fine gravel applied to the  hot   तारकोल   दौरान  the  प्रक्रम  of manufacture such  कि  a  स्थाई  layer of gravel is stuck to  it  in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship and training of those  applying  it to  उपज   अधिक  or  कम  successful results .
in  some  सूक्ष्म   climates  or shaded  क्षेत्रों  these  बल्कि  'basic '  tarpaper  roofs can  पिछला  well in relation to the cost of materials purchase  और  cost of laying  उन्हें  , however the cost  of   आधुनिक  membranes such  as   epdm  has  आइये  down  over  recent years to make them more  और  more affordable  .
There  हैं  now more firms  supplying   आधुनिक  alternatives and there is generally a growing awareness  of  their performance and availability .
If a leak  करता  occur  on   a  flat roof then  क्षति  often  goes   unnoticed   लिये  long periods  of   समय  during  जिससे   जल  penetrates and soaks the  अलंकार  and any  इन्सुलेशन   and/or   ढांचा  beneath it .
इस   can   सीसे  to expensive damage  इससे   the  rot which often develops  और   if   बाएँ  can weaken the roof structure .
There are also  विभिन्न  health risks  to  people and animals breathing the  सांचे   बीजाणुओं  : the severity  of   इस  health  रिस्क  remains a  debated  point .
One  प्रॉब्लम  with maintaining flat roofs  is   कि  if water does penetrate  the  barrier covering (  be  it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can travel  a  long  रास्ता  before causing visible damage  or  leaking into a  भवन  where it  can  be seen  .
यूँ   it  is not  आसान  to see where it is leaking in  अनुक्रम  to  मरम्मत   it  .
Once underlying roof  अलंकार  is soaked it often  sags  causing a further  संग्रहण  or puddling of water in that area and  the  problem  worsens  .
A  cd-rom  ( ) is  a  pre-pressed compact disc which contains data .
The  नाम  is  an   एक्रोनिम   जिससे  stands  लिये  `` Compact Disc  read-only  memory `` .
Computers can read CD-ROMs , but can  नहीं  write  on  them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer  तन्त्र  , including video  खेल   और  multimedia  अनुप्रयोग  ,  हालांकि  any data  can  be  भंडारित  (  up  to the  क्षमता  limit  of   a  disc ) .
कुछ   cds  , called  उन्नत  CDs  ,  hold both computer  आंकड़ा   और   ऑडियो  with the latter capable of  होने   निभाई  on a CD player  ,   जबकि  data  (  such  as  software  or  digital  वीडियो  )  is  only  usable  on a computer (  ऐसे  as ISO 9660 format  pc   cd-roms  )  .
The Yellow  किताब  is  the   तकनीकी  standard  कि  defines the format  of   cd-roms   .
One  of  a  नियत   of  color-bound books that  contain  the technical  विशेषताएँ   लिये  all CD formats , the  पीला  Book , created  by   सोनी  and Philips ,  थी  the first extension of  कॉम्पैक्ट   डिस्क   डिजिटल  Audio .
It  adapted  the  स्वरूप  to  थाम  any form of data .
जोआन  `` Jo ''  रोलिंग  (  )  ,  (  born 31 July 1965 ) ,  कलम   नाम   J.  K. Rowling  ,  is  a  British novelist ,  बेहतरीन   ज्ञात  as the  लेखक   of  the Harry  कुम्हार  fantasy series .
The Potter books have gained worldwide attention , won  अनेक  awards , and sold more than  400  million copies  .
They  have  become  the  best-selling  किताब   श्रेणी   in  history , and been the  आधार   लिये  a series of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had  overall  approval on the scripts as  खूब   as  maintaining creative control  by  serving  as   a   निर्माता   on  the final instalment .
Born in Yate  ,  Gloucestershire  ,   रोलिंग  was working as  a   शोधकर्ता  and bilingual secretary  लिये  Amnesty  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   जब  she conceived the idea for the  हैरी  Potter series on  a   विलम्बित   ट्रैन  from Manchester to London in  1990  .
The  seven-year  period  कि  followed  entailed  the  मौत  of  उसके  mother  ,   तलाक  from her first  husband   और  poverty until Rowling finished the  पहला   अनोखा  in the series , Harry Potter  और   the  Philosopher 's  स्टोन  ( 1997 )  .
Rowling subsequently  प्रकाशित  6 sequels—the  पिछला  , Harry Potter  और  the  deathly  Hallows  (  2007 ) —as  खूब   as  3 supplements  to  the series .
In 2012 , Rowling parted with her agency and resumed writing in the form of a tragicomedy novel aimed  at  adult readership  ,  entitled The Casual Vacancy  .
रोलिंग  has  कहा   वो  is  फिलहाल  working on two books—one  aimed   लिये  adults  ,  the  अन्य  for children younger than the  हैरी  Potter audience , and she expects the  latter  to be published first .
Rowling has  led  a `` rags to riches `` life story ,  in  which she progressed  इससे  living on state  लाभ  to  multi-millionaire   औकात   भीतर   पाँच   सालो  .
She  is  the  संयुक्त  Kingdom  's  best-selling author since  रिकॉर्ड  began , with sales in excess  of  £238m .
The 2008 Sunday Times  समृद्ध  List estimated Rowling 's fortune at £560 million ( $  798   लाख  )  ,  ranking her as  the  twelfth  richest  woman in the United Kingdom .
फोर्ब्स  ranked  रोलिंग  as the forty-eighth  सबसे   शक्तिशाली  celebrity of  2007  , and TIME magazine named her as  a  runner-up for  इसके   2007  Person  of  the  साल   ,  noting the social ,  moral  , and political inspiration  वो   रै   दिए  her fans  .
in  October 2010 ,  रोलिंग  was named the  ``   सबसे  Influential Woman in Britain '' by leading magazine editors  .
वो  has become a notable philanthropist , supporting  ऐसे  charities as Comic  राहत  , One Parent Families  ,  Multiple Sclerosis Society  of  Great  ब्रिटेन  and Lumos ( formerly  the   children   's  High Level  समूह  ) .
auburndale  is a city in Polk County , Florida , United  राज्य  .
The population was 11,032 at  the  2000 census  .
According to the U.S Census  estimates   of  2005  ,   the  city had a population  of  12,381  .
It is part  of  the Lakeland –  शीत  Haven Metropolitan Statistical  क्षेत्रफल  .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit  दौरान  Expedition  7  of  the  International  स्पेस   स्टेशन   .
The  नजर  , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands ,  विशेषताएँ  of  तीव्र  cyclones , are clearly visible in this view from space .
a  tropical cyclone  is   a  storm system  characterized  by a  low-pressure  center surrounded by a spiral arrangement  of   thunderstorms  that produce strong winds and heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones  strengthen   जब  water evaporated  इससे  the ocean is released as the  संतृप्त  air rises , resulting in condensation of  जल  vapor contained in the moist  एयर  .
They  हैं  fueled by  a  different  ऊष्मा   यांत्रिकी  than  अन्य  cyclonic windstorms such  as   nor'easters  ,  यूरोपीय   windstorms  , and polar lows .
The characteristic  कि  separates  तीव्र  cyclones  इससे  other cyclonic systems is that  at  any height in the atmosphere ,  the  center  of   a   तीव्र  cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called ``  गरम  core ``  तूफ़ान  systems  .
The term ``  तीव्र   ''   refers  both to  the  geographical origin of these systems , which  प्रायः  form in  तीव्र  regions  of  the globe  ,  and to their  गठन  in maritime tropical  एयर  masses .
The term ``  चक्रवात  '' refers to  ऐसे   तूफ़ान  '  cyclonic   प्रकृति  , with  counterclockwise  wind  प्रवाह  in  the  Northern Hemisphere  और  clockwise wind flow  in  the  दक्षिणी  Hemisphere .
The  विपरीत   दिशा  of  the  wind  प्रवाह   is   a  result of the Coriolis force .
Depending  on  its location and strength , a tropical cyclone is referred to by names such  as  hurricane  (  , )  ,  typhoon ( ) , tropical storm ,  cyclonic   तूफ़ान   ,   तीव्र   अवसाद  , and simply cyclone .
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely powerful  हवाएँ  and torrential  बरसात  , they are also able to  उपज   ऊँची  waves , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes  .
वे  develop over  विशाल   लाशें  of warm water  ,  and lose their strength  if  they move over land  due  to  increased  surface friction  और  loss of the  गरम  ocean as  an   उर्जा  source .
This is why coastal regions can  प्राप्त  significant  क्षति  from a tropical cyclone , while inland regions are  अपेक्षाकृत  safe  इससे  receiving strong winds .
Heavy  rains  ,  however   ,   can  produce  significant  flooding inland ,  और  storm surges can produce extensive  तटीय  flooding up to  इससे   the  coastline .
हालांकि  their effects on human populations  can  be devastating  ,   तीव्र  cyclones  can  relieve drought conditions .
वे  also carry heat  उर्जा  away from the  ऊष्णकटिबन्ध   और  transport it toward temperate  latitudes   ,  which  makes  them  an  important part  of  the global  वायुमंडलीय  circulation mechanism  .
As a result , tropical  cyclones  help to maintain  संतुलन  in  the  Earth  's  troposphere , and  to  maintain  a  relatively  stable   और  warm temperature worldwide  .
Many tropical cyclones develop when  the  atmospheric conditions around a weak  disturbance  in the atmosphere are favorable  .
the  background environment  is   modulated  by  climatological  cycles  और  patterns such as the  madden-julian  oscillation , El Niño-Southern Oscillation , and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation .
अन्य   रूप  when other  प्रकार  of  cyclones  acquire  तीव्र  characteristics  .
तीव्र  systems are  तब   स्थानांतरित   by   परिचालन  winds in  the  troposphere  ;  if  the  conditions remain favorable ,  the  tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even  develop  an eye .
on  the  अन्य  end of  the   वर्णक्रम  , if the  शर्तें   around  the  प्रणाली  deteriorate  or  the tropical  चक्रवात  makes  landfall  ,  the  system weakens and  आखिरकार  dissipates .
It is  नहीं  possible  to  artificially induce the dissipation of  ये   प्रणालियों  with current technology .
Kirk  डगलस  ( born Issur Danielovitch , ;  दिसम्बर  9 ,  1916  ) is an American  स्टेज  and film actor ,  फिल्मी   निर्माता  and  लेखक  .
His popular films include  आउट  of the Past  (   1947  )  ,   चैंपियन  ( 1949 )  ,  Ace  in  the Hole ( 1951 ) , The  ख़राब  and  the   खूबसूरत  ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues Under  the  Sea  (  1954 ) , Lust  लिये   जीवन   (   1956  ) , Paths  of  Glory  (  1957 ) ,  gunfight  at the O.K  .   corral  ( 1957 ) ,  the   वाइकिंग्स  ( 1958 ) , Spartacus  (  1960 ) , Lonely Are  the  Brave (  1962  )  ,  Seven Days in May  (   1964  ) , The Heroes of  telemark   (   1965   )  and  मुश्किल   यारों  ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the  अमरीकी  Film Institute 's list  of  the  महानतम  male American screen legends of  सब  time  ,   बनाना  him the  highest-ranked  living person on the list .
In 1996 , he received  the  Academy Honorary Award `` for 50 years  as  a creative and moral force in the  गति  picture community .  ''
He is one  of  the  पिछला   surviving  actors from Hollywood  's   ``  golden age ''  .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger (  born  May  6  , 1945  )  is an American rock  और   फेंकें  singer-songwriter  ,  guitarist and pianist .
As a  locally   कामयाब  Detroit-area artist  ,  he  performed  and recorded  as  Bob Seger and the Last  सुना  and  bob   seger  System throughout the  1960s  .
By the early  1970s  , he  था   dropped   the  `` System '' from his recordings and continued to  नीयत  for broader  कामयाबी  with other various bands  .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver  गोली  Band  ,   a  group of Detroit-area musicians , with whom  he   became  most successful on  the   नेशनल  level with the album Live Bullet , recorded  सजीव   साथ   the   चांदी  Bullet  बैंड  in  1975  at Cobo  हॉल  in Detroit ,  मिशिगन  .
In 1976  ,  he  हासिल  a national breakout  साथ  the  स्टुडियो  album Night Moves .
On his studio albums , he  भी  worked extensively with the  alabama-based  Muscle Shoals  लय   खण्ड  , which appeared on several of Seger 's  best-selling   singles  and albums .
A roots  रॉकर  with  a   क्लासिक   raspy  , shouting voice , Seger wrote  और  recorded songs that dealt with love  ,  women ,  blue-collar  themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger  रै   अंकित  many  हिट्स  , including `` Night  चालें   ,  '' ``  फेरे   the  Page ,  ''  `` We 've  मिला  Tonight ,  ''  ``  विरूद्ध   the  Wind  ,  '' and  shakedown   कि  was written for Beverly Hills Cop II and ``  जैसे  a Rock , '' and also co-wrote the  ईगल्स  ' number-one  hit  `` Heartache  tonight  . ''
उसके  iconic  रिकॉर्डिंग  of  ``  Old Time Rock and Roll  ``  was named one  of  the Songs of the Century in  2001   .
With a career  spanning   पाँच  decades , Seger  continues  to  perform   और   रिकार्ड  today .
seger  was  inducted  into the Rock and  फेंकें  Hall  of   कीर्ति  in 2004 and the  songwriters   हॉल  of  कीर्ति  in  2012  .
Richard  milhous  Nixon  (   जनवरी   9  , 1913 – April  22  , 1994  )  was the  37th  President of the United States  ,  serving from  1969   to  1974 , when he became the only president to resign the office  .
Nixon had previously  परोसा  as  a  Republican  u.S.  representative  और   सीनेटर  from California and  as   the  36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
निक्सन   थी  born  in   yorba   लिंडा  , California .
He graduated  इससे  Whittier College in  1934  and Duke University School of Law in  1937  , returning to California to practice law .
he  and  उसके   बीवी  , Pat Nixon , moved to  वॉशिंगटन   to   कार्य  for the federal government in 1942 .
he  subsequently  परोसा   in   the  United  राज्य  Navy  दौरान  World War II .
निक्सन  was elected in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  to the House of Representatives  in  1946 and to  the  Senate  in  1950  .
His pursuit of  the   alger  Hiss  मामला  established his  प्रतिष्ठा  as a  अग्रणी   anti-communist  ,  और  elevated him to national prominence .
He was  the  running mate of Dwight  D.  Eisenhower ,  the  Republican Party presidential  nominee   in   the  1952 election .
Nixon served  लिये  eight years as vice  अध्यक्ष  .
He waged  an  unsuccessful  अध्यक्षीय   अभियान  in 1960 , narrowly losing to John F.  कैनेडी   ,  and lost  a  race for Governor  of  California in  1962   .
In 1968  ,   he  ran again  लिये   the  presidency and was  निर्वाचित  .
Although  निक्सन  initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to  the  People 's Republic  of  China in 1972 opened  राजनयिक   संबंध   between  the two nations , and  he  initiated  détente  and the Anti-Ballistic Missile  सन्धि  with the Soviet Union the same year  .
Domestically ,  उसके  administration generally embraced policies that transferred power from  वॉशिंगटन  to  the  states .
Among other things , he launched  पहलों  to  लड़ो  cancer  और  illegal drugs , imposed wage and price controls  ,  enforced  desegregation   of  some Southern schools , and established  the   पर्यावरणीय   सुरक्षा  Agency .
Though he  presided  over  the  lunar landings beginning with Apollo  11  , he scaled  वापस  manned space exploration  .
He  थी   re-elected   by  a  भूस्खलन  in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an  अरब  oil embargo  ,   the  resignation  of  his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series  of  revelations  परिचय  the  वाटरगेट  scandal and  अन्य  misconduct  by  members of the  प्रशासन  .
the  scandal escalated , costing  निक्सन  much  of   उसके  political support , and on  अगस्त  9  ,  1974 ,  he  resigned  in  the  फेस  of almost  निश्चित   महाभियोग  and removal from office  .
बाद  his  इस्तीफा   ,  he controversially received a  pardon  issued by his successor , Gerald  घाट  .
in  retirement , Nixon 's  कार्य  as an  elder   statesman  , authoring  अनेक  books and  undertaking  many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his  पब्लिक  image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18  ,  1994  ,  and  died  four days later at  the  age of 81 .
{ { Infobox Senator
The  डोमिनिकन   गणतंत्र  annexation treaty  caused  bitter  contention  between President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
ब्रैडी   1869  ] ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed  to   अमरीकी  imperialism  in  the Caribbean  और  fearful that  annexation  would  सीसे  to the conquest of the  neighboring  black republic of  हैती  , became convinced  कि   भ्रष्टाचार  lay  पीछे   the  treaty , and that men  बंद   to   the   अध्यक्ष  shared in the corruption  .
As chairman  of  the Senate  विदेशी   संबंध   कमेटी  , Sen. Sumner initially withheld  उसके  opinion on the  सन्धि  on  जनवरी  18 , 1870  .
Sen.  sumner   था   महरूम  leaked information from  सहायक  Secretary of State  ,   bancroft  Davis , that U.S  .   नवल  ships were being used  to   protect  President Báez .
Sen.  sumner  's  कमेटी  voted against annexation and at Sen. Sumner’s  सुझाव   और  quite  संभवतः  to  सहेजें  the party  इससे   an  ugly fight or the  अध्यक्ष   इससे  embarrassment , the  सीनेट  held its  बहस   of  the  सन्धि  behind closed doors  in  executive session .
अध्यक्ष  Grant persisted and sent  संदेश  to  कॉंग्रेस   in  favor of  annexation   on  March  14   ,  1870 ,  और   may  31 ,  1870  .
In closed session , Sen.  sumner  spoke out  विरूद्ध  the treaty  ;  warnng  कि   वहीँ  would be difficulty with  the  foreign  नागरिकों  ,  noting  the chronic  विद्रोह  that  took   प्लेस  on the island , and the risk  कि   the  independence  of  Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862  ,  would be  खोया   .
sumner  stated that Grant  's  use of the U.S.  नेवी  as a protectorate  थी   a   उल्लंघन  of  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  law and  असंवैधानिक  .
आखिरकार  , on June  30   ,  1870 the  सन्धि  was  voted   on   by  the Senate and  विफल  to  लाभ   the   जरूरी   2/3  majority for treaty  ड्योढ़ी   .
The  following  day , President  ग्रान्ट   ,   अहसास  betrayed by Sen. Sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of Sumner’s close  dost  J. Lothrop  motley  ,  दूत  to  ब्रिटेन   .
by  autumn  ,   sumner   's  personal  दुश्मनी  to the president was  पब्लिक  knowledge , and he  blamed   the  Secretary of  राज्य   लिये  failing to have resigned , rather  than  let Grant have his  रास्ता  .
The  दो   मेन  , friends until then ,  cooled   into   कड़वा  enemies  .
In December  ,  1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to  acquire  Santo  डोमिंगो  somehow , Sumner gave a fiercely critical speech accusing  the   अध्यक्ष  of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct  .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary of  राज्य   हैमिल्टन   मछली   ,   था   initiated  a  अभियान  to depose  sumner  from  the   अध्यक्षता  of  the  Senate Foreign  संबंध   कमेटी   .
हालांकि  Sumner stated he  थी  an ``  प्रशासन  man '' ,  in   जोड  to  having  stopped  ग्रान्ट   's   डोमिनिकन  Republic treaty attempt , Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act , blocked Grant 's  नामांकन   of   सिकंदर  Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury , and been a constant harassing force pushing  पुनर्निर्माण  policies faster than Grant  था  been willing  to  go .
Grant resented Sumner  's   बड़प्पन  of  manner  ,  as  well .
Told once that  sumner  did not believe in the  बाइबल  ,  the   अध्यक्ष  is supposed to  have   कहा  that he was  नहीं  surprised  :  `` he did n't  लिखें   it  .  ''
As  the   दरार   between  Grant  और  Sumner  increased   ,  Sumner’s health began to decline .
जब  the  42nd  U.S. Congress  convened   on   कूच   4  , 1871 ,  सीनेटरों  affiliated with President  ग्रान्ट  , known as ‘’New Radicals’’ voted to  oust  Sen. Sumner from the Senate  विदेशी  Relations  कमेटी  chairmanship .
Business  आचार  ( also  कॉरपोरेट  ethics ) is a form of  लागू  ethics or  पेशेवर  ethics that examines  नैतिक   सिद्धान्त   और  moral or  नैतिक  problems that arise in a business environment  .
It applies  to  all aspects of business  conduct  and is relevant  to  the  conduct  of individuals and entire  संगठन  .
Business ethics has both normative and descriptive  आयाम  .
As a corporate practice and a  करियर  specialization ,  the  field is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to understand business  बर्ताव  employ  वर्णनात्मक  methods .
the  range and quantity of business  नैतिक  issues reflects  the  interaction of profit-maximizing behavior  साथ  non-economic concerns  .
Interest in  कारोबार  ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and  1990s  ,  दोनो  within major corporations and within academia .
लिये  example ,  आज  most major corporations promote their commitment to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes  और  social  जिम्मेदारी  charters .
Adam Smith said , `` People  of  the same trade seldom  मिलें  together , even for merriment and diversion  ,  but the  वार्तालाप   ends  in a  षड्यंत्र   विरूद्ध  the public  ,  or in  कुछ  contrivance to raise prices  .  ''
सरकारें   उपयोग  laws and regulations  to  point  कारोबार   बर्ताव   in  what they  perceive  to  be   फायदेमंद  directions .
आचार  implicitly  regulates  areas  और  details of behavior that  झूठ   परे  governmental control  .
the  emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity  to   the   समुदायों  in  जिससे  they  operate   त्वरित  the  विकास   of   औपचारिक  ethics  regimes  .
a   बर्न  is a type  of  injury to flesh  or   स्किन   caused  by  ऊष्मा  , electricity , chemicals  ,   घर्षण  , or radiation  .
Most  burns  affect  तभी  the  सतही  skin ( known as  सतही   or  first degree ) or  extend  into the  deeper  skin  लकिन  do not involve the full thickness of the skin  (   ज्ञात  as partial  मोटाई  or  दूसरी  degree  )  .
Rarely  सब  layers  of  the  स्किन  or  deeper  tissues , such as  मांसपेशी  or  अस्थि   can   be   घायल   in   जिससे  case  the  burn is either  पूरा   मोटाई   (  third degree )  or   चौथी  degree  .
The treatment  जरूरी  depends on the severity  of  the  बर्न  .
Superficial burns  संभवतः   प्रबंधित  with  छोटी  more  than  simple  पीड़ा   हत्यारे  while major burns may require prolonged treatment  in   specialized  burn centers  .
Cooling with tap  जल   may  aid pain and decrease damage however  if   एक्सपोज़र  is  prolonged  it may result in  कम  body temperature  .
Partial thickness burns may require cleaning with soap and  जल   followed  by dressings .
फफोले  should typically  be  left unbroken .
पूरा  thickness  burns   प्रायः   आवश्यकता   सर्जिकल  treatments  ऐसे  as skin grafting  और   extensive   burns  often require  विशाल  amount of intravenous  fluids  .
The most common complications  of  burns  हैं   सम्बन्धित   to   संक्रमण  .
While  विशाल  burns can be fatal , modern treatments  विकसित  in  the  last 50 years have significantly improved the  outcomes  , especially  in  children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million people  तलाश  medical treatment and  300,000  people die  इससे  burns  .
In the United States ,  of  those admitted to a burn center , approximately 4 %  die   इससे  their  चोटों   .
The long term outcome is primarily related  to  the  आकार  of burn and the  आयु  of the person effected  .
The  अटलांटिक  Ocean ,  नहीं  including Arctic and Antarctic  regions
This video was  लिया  by the crew of  expedition  29  on  board the ISS .
The pass starts from just  north-east  of the Island of Newfoundland over the North  अटलांटिक   समंदर  to central Africa , over South Sudan .
The  अटलांटिक  Ocean is  the  second-largest of  the  world  's   oceanic   विभाजन  .
With  a  total area  of  about , it covers approximately 20 percent  of   the  Earth  's   सतह  and about 29 percent of its water  सतह   क्षेत्रफल  .
the   पहला  part of its name  refers   to  Atlas of  यूनानी   mythology  ,  बनाना  the  अटलांटिक  the `` Sea  of  Atlas ''  .
The oldest known  जिक्र  of `` Atlantic  ''  is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450  bc  ( Hdt . 1.202.4  )  :  अटलांटिस   थलैसा  (  यूनानी  : Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ;  अंग्रेज़ी  :  समुद्र  of Atlas  )  .
The  पद  Ethiopic Ocean ,  निकला  from  इथियोपिया   ,   थी   लागू  to the  दक्षिणी  Atlantic  as  late as the mid-19th  सदी  .
पहले  Europeans  खोजा  other oceans  ,   the  term ``  समंदर  '' itself  थी  synonymous  साथ  the waters  परे   the  Strait of  जिब्राल्टर  that we  अभी  know as the  अटलांटिक  .
the   जल्दी  Greeks believed  इस  ocean  to  be a gigantic river encircling  the   संसार  .
The Atlantic  समंदर  occupies  an   elongated   ,  S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia  और  Africa  to  the  ईस्ट   ,  and the Americas to the  वेस्ट   .
As one component of the  interconnected  global  समंदर  , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean  (   जिससे  is sometimes considered a  समुद्र  of the  अटलांटिक  )  ,  to the Pacific Ocean in  the   दक्षिणपश्चिम  , the Indian  समंदर   in   the  southeast  ,  and the Southern Ocean  in  the south .
( Other definitions describe the Atlantic as  extending   southward  to  अंटार्कटिक   .  )
the   equator  subdivides it into the North  अटलांटिक   समंदर  and  दक्षिण  Atlantic  समंदर  .
Due  to  their long-term  हठ  , and the  need  for a unique identifier  in   issuing  forecasts and warnings  ,  tropical cyclones  और  subtropical cyclones are given  names  according to policy ( see  तीव्र   चक्रवात  naming ) .
The following  हैं  lists  इससे   जिससे  these  तीव्र  and  उपोष्ण  cyclone names are derived .
श्वेत  light is dispersed  by  a prism  into  the colors  of  the  ऑप्टिकल  spectrum .
The visible spectrum is the  portion   of   the   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  spectrum  कि   is  visible to ( can be detected  by  )  the  human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation in  इस   दायरा   of  wavelengths is called visible  लाइट   or  simply  लाइट   .
A typical human  नजर  will respond to wavelengths  इससे   परिचय   390  to 700  nm  .
In  शर्तें  of frequency , this corresponds to a band in the  vicinity   of   430–790  THz .
A  light-adapted   नजर  generally has  इसके   अधिकतम  sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz  )  , in the  ग्रीन  region  of  the optical  वर्णक्रम  ( see  :  luminosity  फलन  )  .
The spectrum does not ,  however   ,   contain  all  the  colors that  the  human eyes and brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors  ऐसे  as pink , or purple variations such as magenta ,  हैं  absent ,  लिये  example , because  वे  can be  बना  only by a mix of  अनेक  wavelengths  .
Colors containing only  एक  wavelength are also called pure  रंगों   .
दृश्य  wavelengths pass through  the   ``  optical  खिड़की  `` , the region of  the  electromagnetic spectrum which allows wavelengths  to   pass   largely  unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere  .
An  उदाहरण  of this phenomenon is that clean air  scatters  blue  लाइट  more  than  red  wavelengths  , and so the midday sky appears  ब्लू   .
the  optical window is also  पुकारा  the  दृश्य  window  क्युकी   it  overlaps  the  human visible response spectrum .
the   निकट  infrared ( NIR  )  window lies just out of the human  दृष्टि   ,  as  खूब  as the Medium  wavelength   ir  ( MWIR ) window and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though  अन्य  animals may experience them .
Many species  can   देखिए  light with frequencies outside the ``  दृश्य  spectrum , '' which is  पारिभाषित  in terms  of   इंसान   दृष्टि  .
Bees  और  many  अन्य   कीट  can detect  पराबैंगनी  light  ,   जिससे   helps  them find nectar in flowers .
संयंत्र  species that  निर्भर  on insect pollination may  owe  reproductive success to their appearance in  पराबैंगनी  light  ,  rather than  कैसा   रंगीन   वे  appear to humans .
Birds , too , can see into the ultraviolet ( 300–400 nm ) , and some have sex-dependent markings  on   उनके   plumage   कि   हैं  visible only  in  the ultraviolet  दायरा   .
Many  पशु   कि  can  देखिए  into the  पराबैंगनी  range , however , can not see red light  or  any other reddish  wavelengths   .
Bees '  दृश्य  spectrum  ends   at  about 590nm , just before the orange  wavelengths  start .
Birds  ,  however , can  देखिए   कुछ  red wavelengths ,  लकिन  not as many as humans .
zebras   (  or ) are several species of African equids ( horse  परिवार  ) united by their distinctive black and white  धारियाँ  .
उनके  stripes come in different patterns ,  अद्वितीय  to each individual .
They are  generally   सोशल  animals that live in small harems to large herds .
Unlike their closest relatives ,  घोड़े  and asses , zebras  have   never   महरूम  truly  domesticated  .
वहीँ  are three species of  zebras   :  the  मैदान  zebra  ,   the   grévy   's   जेब्रा   और  the mountain zebra  .
the  plains zebra and the mountain  जेब्रा   belong  to  the  subgenus Hippotigris , but Grévy  's  zebra  is  the sole species  of   subgenus  Dolichohippus .
the   latter  resembles an ass , to which  it   is  closely related , while the former  दो  are more horse-like .
All three  belong   to  the genus Equus , along with other  जीना  equids .
The  अद्वितीय  stripes of  zebras  make them one of the  पशु  most familiar to people .
They occur in  a  variety  of   habitats  , such as  grasslands  , savannas , woodlands , thorny scrublands , mountains ,  और   तटीय  hills  .
however  ,  विभिन्न  anthropogenic  कारकों   have  had a severe impact on zebra populations , in particular hunting for  खालें  and habitat destruction .
Grévy  's  zebra and  the   पहाड़  zebra are endangered .
While plains zebras  हैं   much  more  plentiful  , one  subspecies  ,  the   quagga  ,  became  extinct  in  the late 19th century – though there  is  currently a plan  ,  called the Quagga Project  ,   कि  aims  to  breed zebras that  हैं   phenotypically   समान   to   the  quagga  in  a process called breeding back .
Barry  श्वेत   ,  born Barry  यूजीन  Carter (  –  ) , was  an  American  composer  and singer-songwriter  .
a  two-time  ग्रैमी  Award -winner  ज्ञात  for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image , White  's  greatest  कामयाबी  came in  the   1970s  as a solo singer and  साथ  the Love Unlimited Orchestra  ,  crafting  अनेक  enduring soul ,  दुर्गंध  , and disco songs  ऐसे  as  उसके  two biggest hits , `` You 're the First , the Last , My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough  of  Your Love , Babe . ''
Along  साथ  Isaac Hayes ,  श्वेत   is   माना   by  Allmusic.com as  a  pioneer of disco music in  the   जल्दी  1970s .
During the course of  उसके  career  in   the  music business  ,   श्वेत  achieved 106 gold albums worldwide  ,  41 of  जिससे  also attained platinum status  .
White had 20  सुनहरा  and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide sales in excess of 100 million ,  according  to critics Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan .
His  प्रभाव   शामिल  Rev . James Cleveland , Ray Charles , Aretha  फ्रैंकलिन   प्लस   motown  artists The Supremes ,  the   चार  Tops  और  Marvin Gaye .
Angelina  जोली  ( ,  born   एंजेलीना  Jolie Voight ;  जून   4  , 1975 ) is an American actress  ,  film director ,  और  screenwriter .
She has received an Academy Award , two Screen Actors Guild  पुरस्कार   ,   और  three Golden Globe Awards  ,  and was named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes  in  2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes ,  और  is noted for her work with refugees as  a   खास  Envoy and former Goodwill  दूत  for  the   संयुक्त  Nations High Commissioner  लिये  Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited  as  the  संसार   's   ``  most beautiful  ''   स्त्री  , a  शीर्षक  for which  वो  has received substantial  मीडिया   ध्यान  .
जोली  made her  स्क्रीन  debut as a child alongside  उसके   पिता   jon   वोइट  in Lookin ' to  मिलेंगी  Out ( 1982  )  , but her  फिल्मी  career began in earnest  a  decade later with  the  low-budget production Cyborg  2  ( 1993 )  .
उसके   पहला  leading  भूमिका   in  a major film  थी  in  the  cyber-thriller  हैकर्स  ( 1995 )  .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television  films   जार्ज  Wallace (  1997  ) and Gia  (   1998  ) , and won an  अकादमी  Award for Best Supporting  अभिनेत्री  for her  प्रदर्शन  in the drama  लड़की  , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
जोली  achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video  खेल  heroine Lara Croft in Lara Croft :  मकबरा   रेडर  ( 2001 ) , and established herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood  साथ  the sequel  the  Cradle of Life  (  2003  )  .
She  जारी  her action star career  साथ  Mr. &  mrs.  Smith  (  2005 ) and Wanted  (  2008 ) —her  biggest   non-animated  commercial successes to date—and received further critical acclaim for her  प्रदर्शन  in the dramas A  mighty  Heart ( 2007 )  और  Changeling (  2008  ) , which earned her  a   नामांकन   लिये  an Academy Award  लिये   बेहतरीन  Actress .
Jolie made  उसके  directorial debut  साथ  the  wartime  drama In the Land  of  Blood and Honey (  2011   )  .
तलाक  from actors  जॉनी   ली   मिलर   और  Billy Bob  थॉर्नटन  , Jolie now  जीवनदान  with  कर्ता  Brad Pitt , in a relationship notable for  fervent  media  ध्यान  .
Jolie and  pitt  have three biological children and  तीन  adopted  children  .
a  natural  मेहराब   उत्पादित  by  the  erosion of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
अपरदन  is  the   प्रक्रम   by  which  मृदा  and  चट्टान   हैं  removed from the Earth  's  surface  by  exogenetic processes such as wind or  जल   प्रवाह  , and then transported and deposited  in  other  स्थितियाँ  .
While erosion  is  a  प्राकृतिक  process  ,   इंसान  activities have increased  by  10-40 times  the   रेट  at which erosion  is  occurring globally .
excessive  erosion causes problems such  as   मरुस्थलीकरण  ,  decreases  in agricultural productivity  due  to land  degradation  ,  sedimentation  of waterways , and  ecological   पतन  due  to  loss of the  nutrient   समृद्ध  upper soil layers .
जल  and  हवा  erosion are  अभी  the  दो  primary  कल्याणकारी  of land  degradation  ; combined , they  हैं  responsible for  84   %  of  degraded   acreage  ,  बनाना   excessive   अपरदन  one of the most significant global environmental problems  .
Industrial agriculture , deforestation , roads  ,   anthropogenic  climate change  और   शहरी  sprawl  हैं  amongst the  सबसे  significant human  क्रियाएँ  in  लिहाज़   to  their  प्रभाव  on stimulating erosion .
however  , there are many available alternative land use practices  कि  can curtail or limit  अपरदन  ,  ऐसे   as   छत  -building ,  no-till  agriculture , and revegetation of denuded soils  .
Jersey Shore is  an  American reality television series which ran on MTV from  दिसम्बर   3   ,   2009  to December 20 , 2012 in  the  United States  .
The series follows  the  lives of eight housemates  बिता  their summer at  the  Jersey Shore  in  the  u.S.  state of  नई  Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast  escaping  the  ठंडा  northeast  शीत  to  मियामी  Beach , with Season  3  returning  to  the Jersey Shore .
The fourth season , filmed in  इटली   ,   premiered  on August  4  , 2011 .
The show returned for  a   पांचवां  season , at Seaside Heights on  जनवरी   5  ,  2012  .
The  पांचवां   ऋतु   finale  aired on March  15  ,  2012  .
On  कूच   19   ,  2012 ,  एमटीवी   पुष्टि  that the series would  वापसी   लिये   उनके   छठे  season  .
On August 30  ,  2012 , MTV announced  कि  the  श्रेणी   होगा  end after  the   छठे  season  ,  which premiered on  अक्तूबर  4 .
the  series finale aired  on  December 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy  regarding   the  use of the words `` Guido /  guidette  , '' portrayals  of   italian-american  stereotypes ,  और  scrutiny from locals  क्युकी  the cast members were not residents of the area .
the   श्रेणी  garnered record ratings for  एमटीवी  , making it the  संजाल   's   सबसे  viewed series  telecast  ever .
The  श्रेणी  ' cast have also been  credited  with introducing unique  lexicon  and phrases into  अमरीकी  popular culture  .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Chicago  और   the  University  of   ओक्लाहोमा  are  among  the  शैक्षणिक   संस्थानों  that have had classes  or  conferences about the show .
In 2010 , the  डाल  of  जर्सी  Shore  थी  named on  बारबरा   walters  '  10   सबसे   fascinating   लोगों  list  ,   और  the series has since been exported to  दर्जनों  of countries worldwide .
There are  अनेक  remakes of  the   दिखाएँ  in other  देशों   ,   साथ  two set in  the  United Kingdom ;  the  well  ज्ञात  Geordie  shore  , set in Newcastle upon Tyne , England  .
The other is  the  Valleys  ,  the Welsh equivalent , which is filmed  और  set  in  Cardiff  .
The only other official remake of the  दिखाएँ  is  gandía  Shore , set in Gandía ,  स्पेन   .
right
United States  territory   is  any extent of region under the  क्षेत्राधिकार   of  the  संघीय  government of the  संयुक्त  States ,  सहित   सब   waters   (  around islands  or  continental  tracts  ) and  सब  U.S . Naval vessels .
The United States has  traditionally   proclaimed  the sovereign  अधिकारों  for  exploring  ,  exploiting  ,  conserving  ,  और   मैनेजिंग  its territory .
This extent of  territory  is all  the   क्षेत्रफल  belonging to ,  और  under the  डोमिनियन  of ,  the  United States  संघीय  government (  जिससे   शामिल  tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative  और  other purposes  .
The United  राज्य   कुल   territory   शामिल  a subset of  राजनैतिक   विभाजन  .
The U.S. government is  a  government with  प्रतिनिधित्व   शक्तियां   अंतर्गत  the  संयुक्त  States Constitution .
``  The powers  नहीं  delegated to the United  राज्य  by the Constitution , nor prohibited  by  it to the  राज्य   ,   हैं  reserved to the States respectively , or to the people  ''  by the  दसवाँ  Amendment .
Terminator 3 :  वृद्धि  of the  मशीने   (  commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a  2003   विज्ञान  fiction action film directed by  जोनाथन  Mostow  और  starring  अर्नाल्ड  Schwarzenegger ,  उपनाम  Stahl  ,  Claire Danes  और  Kristanna  loken   .
it  is  the   दूसरी  sequel to The Terminator  (  1984 ) .
After  स्काईनेट   fails  to kill Sarah Connor before  उसके   बेटे   is   born   और  to kill John himself as a child  ,  it sends  वापस   another  Terminator ,  the   t-x  , in  an   attempt  to  wipe  out as many Resistance officers  as  possible  .
This includes John  's  future  बीवी  , but not John himself  as   उसके   whereabouts   हैं  unknown to Skynet .
John  's  life  is  placed in  खतरे   जब  the  t-x  accidentally finds him  .
A  cord   of  wood
The cord is a  ईकाई  of measure of  शुष्क  volume used in Canada and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A  cord  is the amount of wood  कि  ,  जब   ``  ranked and well stowed ''  (  arranged so pieces  हैं  aligned , parallel ,  छु  and compact  )   ,  occupies a  आवाज़  of .
This corresponds to a well  stacked   woodpile  high ,  long   ,   और  deep ;  or  any other arrangement of linear measurements that yields the  वही  volume .
the   नाम  cord probably comes  इससे  the use of a cord or string to measure it .
The , is  an   8-bit  handheld video  खेल  device  विकसित  and manufactured by Nintendo .
It was  released  in Japan  on  , in North America in , and in Europe on .
It is the first handheld console in  the  Game Boy line  ,  and was created by Gunpei  yokoi  and  निन्टेंडो   शोध   &  Development 1 —the same staff  जो  had designed  the  Game &  देखें  series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
redesigned  versions were  released  in 1996  और  1998 , in the form  of   खेल   लड़के  Pocket , and Game  लड़के  Light ( Japan only  )   ,  respectively .
the  Game  लड़के  is Nintendo 's  दूसरी   हैंडहेल्ड  system  following   the  Game &  देखें  series introduced in , and it  संयुक्त   सुविधाएँ   इससे  both the  निन्टेंडो  Entertainment System and  खेल  &  देखें  .
It  थी  originally bundled with the  पहेली  game Tetris .
as   भाग  of the fourth generation of gaming , the Game  लड़के  competed with  the  Sega Game Gear , Atari  लिंक्स   ,  and the TurboExpress .
Despite  ये  other  technologically  superior handheld  consoles  , the  खेल  Boy was a  जबरदस्त  success .
The Game Boy and its  successor   ,  the Game Boy Color ,  have  both  संयुक्त   बेची   118.69  million units worldwide .
Upon its  रिलीज  in the United States ,  it  sold its entire  शिपमेंट  of one million  इकाई  within  सप्ताह   .
the  World Trade  बीच  is a complex  of  buildings under construction in Lower  मैनहटन  ,  नई   यॉर्क  City  ,  United States , replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings  साथ  the same name on the same  साईट  .
the  original World Trade  बीच  featured landmark twin  मीनारें  ,  जिससे   खोली  on  अप्रैल   4  , 1973 and were  नष्ट   in   the  September  11  attacks of  2001   ,  along with 7  संसार  Trade  बीच  .
The other  इमारतें   in  the  जटिल  were  क्षतिग्रस्त  in  the   हमले  ,  और  their ruins were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers and  a  memorial  to  those killed  in   the   हमले  .
, only one skyscraper has been completed  ;  the other four are expected to be  समाप्त   पहले   2020  .
One  संसार   व्यापार  Center will be  the  lead building for the new complex , reaching more than 100  कहानियां  at  इसके  completion .
It  became  the tallest building in New  यॉर्क  City on April  30  , 2012 , and is expected to  be  finished by 2013  .
A sixth  मीनार   is  awaiting confirmation  .
At the  समय  of  उनके  completion , the  असली  1 World Trade Center  (  the  उत्तर   मीनार  ) and 2 World Trade  बीच  ( the South Tower ) , known collectively as the  ``  Twin Towers  ''  , were the tallest buildings in the world .
The other buildings included 3 WTC  (  the  मैरियट   संसार  Trade Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC  ,  and  7  WTC  .
सब   of  these  इमारतें   यहूद  built between 1975 and  1985   .
The  लागत   लिये  the construction  थी   $   400   लाख  ( $ in dollars ) .
The complex was located in  the  heart of  नई  York City 's downtown financial district and contained  13.4  million square feet  (   1.24   लाख   m2  ) of  दफ्तर  space .
the  World Trade Center experienced a fire  on  , 1975  ,  a bombing on , 1993  और   a  robbery  on  , 1998 .
In 1998 , the Port Authority  decided  to privatize the World Trade Center  ,  leasing the buildings  to  a private  कम्पनी  to manage  ,  and awarded the lease  to  Silverstein  गुण  in .
On  the   morning  of September  11  , 2001  ,  Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers flew two Boeing 767  jets  into  the  complex  ,  one into each tower , in a  समन्वित   आतंकवादी  attack .
After burning  लिये  56 minutes ,  the  South Tower ( 2 )  collapsed  ,  followed   a  half-hour later by the  उत्तर  Tower ( 1 ) , with the  हमले  on the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753  मौतों  .
गिरना  debris from the towers , combined  साथ  fires that  the  debris  initiated  in several surrounding buildings , led  to  the  आंशिक  or complete collapse of all the other buildings in the  जटिल  and caused  अनर्थकारी   क्षति  to  टेन  other large  structures  in the surrounding area  .
The process of cleanup and recovery  at  the World  व्यापार  Center  साईट   took   आठ  months .
Over the following years ,  योजनाएँ  for a rebuilt World Trade Center took form .
The  पहला   नई  building  at   the  site  थी   7  World  व्यापार  Center ,  जिससे  opened in .
The  निम्नतर  Manhattan  विकास  Corporation (  lmdc   )   ,   स्थापित  in to oversee the rebuilding process ,  व्यवस्थित  competitions to select a site  योजना  and  मेमोरियल  design  .
Memory Foundations ,  designed  by  डेनियल   libeskind  , was selected as  the  master plan , but this went through substantial changes  in   डिज़ाइन  .
The new World  व्यापार  Center  जटिल   होगा   शामिल  One World  व्यापार  Center ,  तीन  other high-rise  दफ्तर  towers  ,  and the  नेशनल  September 11 Memorial &  संग्रहालय  .
San Gabriel Mountains
San  bernardino  Mountains ,  साथ  Mt . San  gorgonio  in the foreground and Big Bear Lake in  the   पृष्ठभूमि  .
the  Transverse Ranges  हैं   a  group of mountain ranges of southern California  ,   in  the Pacific  coast   सीमाएँ  physiographic  प्रदेश  in North  अमेरिका  .
the  Transverse Ranges begin at  the  southern end of the California Coast  सीमाएँ  and lie between  सांता  Barbara  और  San  डिएगो  counties .
They  derive  the  नाम  Transverse  सीमाएँ  due  to  their East-West  अभिविन्यास  , making them transverse  to  the general North-South orientation  of  most of California 's coastal mountains .
Periodic  तालिका  with  इलेक्ट्रॉन   शेल
an  electron shell may be thought  of   as  an orbit  followed  by electrons  around  an  अणु   's  nucleus  .
The closest shell to the  केंद्रक  is called the  ``   1  shell '' ( also called  ``  K shell '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or ``  l  shell  ''  ) , then the ``  3  shell '' ( or `` M shell  ''  ) , and  so  on  दूर   और   दूर  from the nucleus .
The shell  अक्षर   k  , L  ,  M , ... , used  in  the X-ray  संकेतन  , are alphabetical .
Each shell can  contain   तभी  a fixed number  of  electrons : The 1st shell  can   थाम  up to two electrons  ,  the 2nd shell can  थाम  up to  आठ  electrons , the 3rd shell  can   थाम  up  to  18 , and 4th shell  can  hold  up  to  32  and so on .
चूंकि  electrons  हैं   electrically  attracted to  the   केंद्रक  , an  अणु  's  electrons  will generally occupy outer  शेल  only if  the   अधिक  inner shells  have  already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this  is   नहीं  a strict requirement : Atoms  may   have  two or even three incomplete  बाहरी  shells .
(  See Madelung  नियम   लिये  more  विवरण  . )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in these shells see electron configuration .
The  electrons   in  the outermost  occupied  shell (  or  shells  )  determine  the  chemical properties of  the   अणु   ;  it is called the  valence  shell .
प्रत्येक   शेल  consists  of  one or  अधिक   subshells  , and each  subshell   consists  of one or more  परमाणु   orbitals  .
Vickie Lynn Marshall  (  née Hogan ; November 28 , 1967 –  फ़रवरी   8  , 2007 )  ,   ज्ञात   by   उसके  moniker Anna  निकोल  Smith , was  an  American model , actress , and television  व्यक्तित्व   .
Smith first  gained  popularity  in  Playboy , becoming  the  1993 Playmate of the Year  .
She modeled for clothing  कंपनियाँ  ,  सहित  Guess  जीन्स  and Lane Bryant .
स्मिथ  dropped  आउट  of high school  और  was married in 1985 .
Her  अत्यधिक   publicized   दूसरी  marriage  to   आयल  business mogul  ,  J. Howard  मार्शल  ,  62  years her senior  ,  resulted in  अटकलें  that  वो  married the octogenarian for his  धन  , which she  अस्वीकृत   .
following  Marshall 's death , Smith began  a   lengthy   विधिक  battle over a share of his estate .
उसके  case , Marshall  v.  Marshall  ,  reached the U.S.  परम्  Court on a question  of  federal jurisdiction ,  और  again  on  a  सवाल   of   दिवालियापन   अदालत  authority ( now called  stern  v.  मार्शल   )   .
स्मिथ  died  on  February 8  ,  2007 in  a  Hollywood , Florida hotel  रूम  as a result of an overdose of  नुस्खा  drugs .
Within the  फाइनल   छह  months  of   उसके  life ,  स्मिथ  was the  फ़ोकस   of  a renewed press  कवरेज  surrounding the death of her  बेटे   ,  Daniel , and the paternity  और   कस्टडी  battle over her  नवजात  daughter , Dannielynn .
The is one denomination of  जापानी   येन  .
The  वर्तमान   डिज़ाइन  was first  minted  in  1959   using   जापानी  characters known as the `` new script `` , and  यहूद  also  minted  from 1949-1958 using  ``  old-script '' Japanese characters .
five-yen   सिक्के  date  to  1870 ( when , due to  the  much higher value of the  येन  , they were minted in gold )  .
The front of the coin depicts  a  rice  संयंत्र   growing  out of the water , with  ``  five yen '' written in  कांजी  ;  the  back is  stamped  with `` Japan ''  और  the year of issue ,  भी  in kanji , separated by sprouts  of   a  tree .
The three graphic elements of  the  coin  represent  agriculture and fisheries  ,  the key elements of the Japanese first-sector economy .
Around a  छेद  , there is  a  gear that represents industry  .
It is the only  जापानी  coin  in  circulation to lack Arabic numerals on either face  .
tlc  is an  अमरीकी  girl  समूह  whose repertoire spanned R & B ,  हिप  hop  ,   आत्मा  , funk  ,  and new jack  झूले  .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz ''  वाटकिंस   ,  rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer Rozonda ``  chilli  '' Thomas ,  the   समूह  found  unprecedented  success in the  1990s   जबकि   भी  enduring a series of  spats   साथ  the law , each other , and the  समूह   's   रिकार्ड  label  .
initially   ,  TLC achieved  वाणिज्यिक  success following the  रिलीज  of their  डेब्यू   एल्बम   ooooooohhh  ...
on  the TLC  टिप  , which  बेची   6  million copies worldwide .
However , it was their second  एल्बम  ,  crazysexycool  , that  catapulted  the group  to  superstar status  .
CrazySexyCool  गई   on  to  be  certified  डायमंड  by the RIAA —  a  first  लिये  a female group ,  और   आखिरकार  sold 23  लाख  copies worldwide  .
Five  सालो  later  ,  the  समूह   released   उनके   तीसरा  album FanMail  ,   जिससे   became   the  group 's first album to debut  at  number  एक   और   बेची   अधिक   than   11  million copies worldwide  .
The subsequent tour following FanMails release  became  the  उच्चतम  grossing  दौरे  of all time by a female band  .
In 2002 ,  लिसा   ``  Left Eye  ''  Lopes  died  in a car accident in Honduras .
Seven  महीने  later ,  t-boz   और  Chilli  released  the group  's  fourth  एल्बम  3D , which sold 2 million copies worldwide  ,  it featured  unreleased  vocals from  बाएँ  Eye .
Billboard magazine  क्रमित   tlc  as one  of  the greatest  musical  trios .
Between 1992 and  2003  ,  the  band accumulated ten  शीर्ष   टेन  singles ,  चार  number  एक  singles , four multi-platinum albums , and  चार  Grammy Awards .
at  the end  of  1999 , TLC was ranked as the seventh  सबसे  successful  अधिनियम  of the 1990s  by   बिलबोर्ड  .
In 2008 , the  समूह  was  inducted  into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall  of   कीर्ति   by  the same  पत्रिका  , at 56th place .
That year it was also  सूचीबद्ध  as the # 25 R & B/hip-hop artist of  the  preceding 25 years .
TLC has  बेची   अधिक  than 65  लाख   रिकॉर्ड   विश्वव्यापी   और  they are ranked as the  दूसरी  best selling female group of all time , and the best selling  मादा  R & B  समूह  of all  समय  .
In 2012 , TLC  क्रमित   12th  on VH1 's  100   महानतम  Women in  म्यूज़िक  , being  क्रमित  the  क्रमांक  one  सब   लड़की  group on that  सूची  .
टार्ज़न   is   a  1999  अमरीकी  animated  एडवेंचर  film  उत्पादित  by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt  डिज़्नी  Pictures  .
the  37th film in the Walt Disney  एनिमेटेड  Classics , it is based  on  the story  टार्ज़न  of  the  Apes  by  Edgar Rice  बरोज  , and is the only  प्रमुख  motion  चित्र  version of  the  story Tarzan property to be animated .
Directed by  क्रिस  Buck and Kevin Lima with  a  screenplay by Tab Murphy  ,  Bob Tzudiker , and Noni  श्वेत  , Tarzan features the  आवाज़ें  of  टोनी  Goldwyn ,  minnie  Driver  ,  Glenn Close  ,  and  रोजी  O'Donnell with Brian  धन्य  , Lance  henriksen  , Wayne Knight  ,  and  निगेल  Hawthorne  .
it   थी  the last bona fide  hit  before the Disney slump of  the   जल्दी   2000s   grossing  $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide ,  outgrossing  its  पूर्ववर्तियों   hercules  ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the  समय   of  its release  ,   इसके  production  बजट   of  $ 130  लाख  made  it  the most expensive animated film  कभी  made , until  अव्वल  by  डिज़्नी  's own $  140  million Treasure Planet in  2002  .
it   थी   भी  the first Disney animated feature to open at  #  1 since Pocahontas  .
This was the  पिछला  major box office  कामयाबी  of the Disney  पुनर्जागरण  .
आयल  Platform P-51 off the  ब्राज़ीलियाई  coast is a semi-submersible platform  .
आयल  platform Mittelplate in the North sea
An  आयल  platform , (  offshore  platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a large structure with  सुविधाएं  to drill wells  ,  to extract  और   प्रक्रम  oil and natural gas ,  और  to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and  विपणन   .
In many  मामले   ,  the  मंच  contains facilities  to   हाउस  the workforce as well  .
Depending on  the  circumstances ,  the  platform may be fixed to the  समंदर   मंजिल  ,  may  consist of  an  artificial island ,  or  may  फ्लैश   .
Remote subsea wells may also be connected to a platform by flow lines  और   by  umbilical  कनेक्शन्स  .
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea wells , or  of  one or more manifold centres for  अनेक  wells .
Slaughter is  the  killing of animals , usually that of domestic livestock for food .
the   पशु  most commonly  slaughtered  for  खाना   हैं  cattle , water buffalo ( for  बीफ  and veal  )  , sheep  ,  goats ( for lamb  और   मटन  ) , pigs ( for pork ) , horses (  लिये  horse meat ) , and  fowl  , largely  मुर्गियों   ,  turkeys , and ducks  और  increasingly fish  इससे  the  aquaculture  industry  (  fish farming ) .
The White House , the president 's official residence  और  center  of  the administration
अंतर्गत   the  United States  संविधान  ,  the   अध्यक्ष   of  the United States is the head of  राज्य  and head of government of the  संयुक्त  States  .
As chief of  the  executive branch and head of  the  federal government as a whole , the presidency is the highest  राजनैतिक  office  in  the United States  by  influence  और   मान्यता  .
the   अध्यक्ष  is also  the  commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces  .
The  अध्यक्ष  is  indirectly  elected  to  a four-year term by  an  Electoral College ( or by the House of  प्रतिनिधि  should the Electoral College fail to award  an  absolute  बहुमत  of votes to any person  )  .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second  amendment  to the United  राज्य  Constitution in 1951 , no person may be  निर्वाचित   अध्यक्ष  more than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a  पद  to which someone else was  निर्वाचित   may   be   निर्वाचित  more than once .
Upon  the  death  ,   इस्तीफा   ,  or removal from office of  an   लाज़िम  President ,  the  Vice President assumes the office .
The  अध्यक्ष   जरूर  be at  तनिक  35 years of age  और  a  ``  natural born '' citizen  of   the   संयुक्त  States  .
इस  list  शामिल  only those  व्यक्तियों  who  यहूद   sworn  into office as president following the ratification of the United States Constitution , which took effect on March  4  , 1789 .
लिये  American leaders before this ratification , see  अध्यक्ष   of  the Continental  कॉंग्रेस  .
The list does not include any  एक्टिंग  Presidents under the Twenty-fifth  amendment  to  the   संयुक्त  States Constitution .
There  have  been 43 people sworn into office , and  44   presidencies  ,  as   ग्रोवर  Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as  दोनो  the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the  individuals  elected  as  president ,  चार  died in office of natural causes ( William Henry  हैरिसन  , Zachary Taylor  ,  Warren G.  हार्डिंग  , and Franklin D.  रूज़वेल्ट  ) , four were  assassinated   (  Abraham  lincoln  ,  जेम्स  A. Garfield , William McKinley  ,  and John  F.  Kennedy  )  and one resigned  (  Richard  निक्सन   )  .
George  वॉशिंगटन   ,   the  first president , was  उदघाटन  in 1789 after a  सर्वसम्मत  vote  of  the Electoral  कॉलेज  .
विलियम  Henry Harrison spent the  shortest  time in  दफ्तर  with  32  days in  1841  ,  और  Franklin  D.  Roosevelt  खर्च  the  longest  with over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in  1945  .
He is the  तभी  president  to  serve  अधिक   than  two terms ,  और   a  constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after  हैरी  Truman ,  थी  passed  to  limit the number  of   टाइम्स  an individual can be  निर्वाचित  president .
Andrew Jackson  ,  the  सातवाँ  president , was  the  first to be elected  by  men of  सब  classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from  मतदान  were repealed .
Warren  हार्डिंग  was the first elected after  महिलाओं  gained voting  अधिकारों  in 1920 .
History  रिकॉर्ड  four presidents – John  q   एडम्स   ,   रदरफोर्ड  B.  हेज़   ,  Benjamin Harrison and  जार्ज  W.  बुश  – who lost the popular vote  लकिन  assumed office  .
John  F.  Kennedy has been the  तभी  president  of  Roman  कैथोलिक  faith , and  the   वर्तमान  president , Barack Obama , is the first president of  अफ़्रीकी  descent .
Several firearms with detachable  suppressors  ,  इससे   शीर्ष  to  नीचे   :  An Uzi , An AR-15 ,  a  Heckler &  koch  USP Tactical , A  beretta  92FS , and  a  SIG Mosquito .
Bolt  कार्रवाई   rimfire  rifle  साथ   suppressor
AWM-F sniper  राइफल  with attached suppressor  .
A  suppressor   ,  sound suppressor ,  or  sound moderator  ,  is a device attached  to  or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , and usually the  राशि   of  muzzle flash , generated by firing  the  weapon  .
A suppressor can  be  used both with a firearm  और  with compressed  एयर   गन  .
Though  it  is sometimes referred  to  as a silencer ,  इस  term is a  misnomer  popularized  by  cinematic fiction  :  the sound of a projectile , especially one  चलती  faster than the speed of sound ,  through  the air can not  be   eliminated  .
using  a suppressor  in   long  distance shooting ( i.e  .  greater than 300 meters  )   can  lessen , or retard , the report  at  the moment of impact  ,  and create the impression of silence near the target  .
The noise heard near  the  muzzle as a projectile  पत्ते   the   बैरल  , though subdued  ,   is  not silent  at  all  .
A suppressor is  प्रायः  a metal cylinder  साथ  internal mechanisms to reduce  the   ध्वनि  of firing by  slowing   the  escaping propellant gas and  sometimes  by reducing the  गति   of  the bullet .
Early suppressors were  निर्मित  around the beginning  of  the 20th century by several  आविष्कारक  .
अमरीकी  inventor Hiram Percy  कहावत  ( not  to  be confused  साथ  Hiram Stevens  कहावत   ,  Hiram  पर्सी  's  पिता  , and the  आविष्कारक  of the Maxim Machine Gun ) , is  credited  with inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa  1902   (  patented 30 March 1909 )  .
Maxim gave his device the trademarked name Maxim Silencer  .
The muffler  लिये   आतंरिक  combustion  इंजन  was  विकसित   in  parallel with  the   firearm   suppressor  by Maxim  in  the early 20th  सदी  ,  using   अनेक  of  the  same techniques to  provide  quieter-running engines ( in  अनेक  European  देशों   ऑटोमोबाइल  mufflers are still called  silencers  )  .
The  शब्द   silencer  in reference  to  gun suppressor remains in  फैली   उपयोग  , although it has  चूंकि  fallen out of  एहसान   साथ  some , especially  among  the firearms industry ,  होने  replaced with the more literally  सटीक  term  ध्वनि  suppressor  or   बस  suppressor  ,  because a  ``  sound suppressor '' does  नहीं   ``   खामोशी   ''  any  हथियार  ,  बल्कि  it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces  the   सोनिक  pressure of a firearm discharging .
आम  usage  और  U.S. legislative language favor  the  historically earlier  पद  , silencer  .
In  u.S.   विधि  , the  शर्तें  ``  firearm  muffler  ''  and  ``  firearm silencer '' are synonymous .
Suppressors  यहूद  regularly used by agents  of   the  United States Office of  रणनीतिक  Services , who  favored  the newly designed High Standard  hdm  .22 Long Rifle  पिस्टल  during World War II  .
OSS  निदेशक  William Joseph `` Wild Bill ''  डोनोवन  demonstrated the pistol for President Franklin  D.   रूज़वेल्ट  at the White House  .
According to OSS  शोध  chief Stanley Lovell  ,   डोनोवन  ( an old and  विश्वसनीय   dost  of the  अध्यक्ष   )  was  लहराया  into  the   ओवल   दफ्तर  ,  जहाँ   रूज़वेल्ट   थी   dictating  a letter .
While Roosevelt  समाप्त  his message , Donovan  turned   उसके   वापस  and  fired  ten shots into  a   sandbag  he  था   brought   साथ   उसे   ,   घोषित   कया  he  था  done and  हात  the smoking  गन   to  the  astonished   अध्यक्ष   .
The British  soe   (  Special Operations  कार्यपालिका  ) Welrod assassination pistol with an  अभिन्न   suppressor   थी  also  प्रयुक्त  by  the  American OSS  on  clandestine  परिचालन   in  Nazi occupied Europe during the Second  संसार   युद्ध   .
beatrice  `` Bea  ''  Arthur ( May 13 ,  1922  – April 25 , 2009  )   थी  an  अमरीकी   अभिनेत्री  , comedienne , and singer  जिनकी  career  spanned  seven  दशकों  .
Arthur achieved fame  as  the character Maude Findlay on the  1970s   sitcoms  All in the Family and Maude ,  और  as  डोरोथी  Zbornak on the  1980s  sitcom The Golden  लड़कियों   ,  winning  एमी  Awards for  दोनो   भूमिकाएँ  .
a  stage actress both before and after her  टेलीविज़न  success , she  जीती  the  टोनी  Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical for her  प्रदर्शन   as  Vera Charles in the original cast  of  Mame  (  1966 )  .
is  a  2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based  on   the  Tekken video game  श्रेणी  , produced  by  Digital Frontier  और  distributed by Asmik Ace  entertainment  in association  साथ  Bandai Entertainment .
the  film premiered in North  अमेरिका  by Bandai  entertainment   on   जुलाई  26 , 2011  ,   और  in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  on July  27  , 2011 in a special exclusive  one-off  screening .
It  थी  released  on  September 3  ,  2011  in   जापानी  .
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on November  22   ,  2011 for USA , and  दिसम्बर  1 ,  2011   लिये  Japan  .
This film  थी  also  released  on  dvd  on November 22 , 2011 ( 2D Version only  )  .
The film  थी  additionally included with the PlayStation 3  खेल  ,  tekken   संकर   ,  and the Nintendo 3DS title ,  tekken  3D : Prime Edition  .
For a  चर्चा   of  nonprofit , voluntary neighborhood advocacy groups , see  पड़ोस   संघ  .
In  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   ,  a  homeowner  association is a corporation formed  by  a real  एस्टेट  developer for the  purpose  of  विपणन  , managing , and selling  of   घरों  and lots in  a  residential  subdivision  .
It grants  the  developer privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit financial  और  legal  जिम्मेदारी  of the organization ,  typically  by transferring  स्वामित्व   of   the  association to the homeowners after selling off  a  predetermined  क्रमांक   of   लोट   .
सदस्यता  in the  homeowners   संघ   by  a  आवासीय   खरीदार  is typically a condition of purchase  ;   a  buyer  is   n't   दिए  an option to reject it .
Most homeowner associations are incorporated , and  हैं  subject to state statutes  कि  govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
राज्य   oversight  of  homeowner   एसोसिएशन  is minimal , and mainly takes  the  form of laws which are inconsistent from  राज्य   to  state .
Some states ,  ऐसे  as Florida and  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , have a large  देह  of homeowner  संघ  law  ,  and some states  ,   ऐसे  as Massachusetts , have virtually no homeowner  संघ  law .
The  तीव्रतम   growing  form of housing in the  संयुक्त  States today is common-interest developments  (  CIDs ) , a  श्रेणी  that  शामिल  planned-unit developments of single-family homes ,  condominiums  , and  सहकारी   अपार्टमेंट  .
Since  1964  , homeowner  एसोसिएशन   have   become  increasingly common in the USA .
the  Community Associations Institute trade association  अनुमानित  that HOAs  governed  24.8  लाख   अमरीकी  homes  और  62  लाख   निवासियों  in 2010  .
A prize-winning lilac-and-white  silkie
There are many breeds of  गिनी   सुअर  which have been developed since its domestication ca .  5000  BC .
Breeds vary  widely  in  रूप  and purpose , ranging from  दिखाएँ  breeds with long  ,   बहती  hair to those in use  as   मॉडल  organisms by science  .
From ca  .  1200  ad   to  the Spanish conquest of  the  Inca  साम्राज्य  in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous South  अमरीकी  peoples resulted in many varieties of  घरेलू  Guinea pigs  ,   जिससे   रूप  the basis for some of the  आधुनिक  domestic breeds  .
Early Andean breeds  यहूद  primarily kept  as  agricultural  भण्डार  for food , and efforts  at   improving  the Guinea pig as  a  food source continue to  the   आधुनिक   era   .
With the export of Guinea pigs  to  Europe in the 15th century , the  लक्ष्य  in breeding shifted to  फ़ोकस  on the  विकास  of  appealing  pets .
to  this  समाप्त   ,  various  प्रतिस्पर्धी  breeding organizations were founded by fanciers  .
the   अमरीकी  Cavy Breeders Association ,  an  adjunct  to  the American  खरगोश  Breeders  संघ   ,  is the governing  देह  in the United  राज्य  and  कनाडा  .
The British Cavy  परिषद  governs cavy clubs  in  the United  किंगडम   .
समान  organizations exist in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   (  Australian National Cavy Council  )  and New Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club  )  .
Each club publishes its own Standard  of  Perfection and  determines  which  breeds  are  योग्य   लिये  showing .
New  breeds  continue to emerge  in  the 21st  सदी  .
Though there  हैं  many  breeds  of Guinea pig , only a few breeds are  commonly   मिला   on  the  दिखाएँ  table  as   पालतु   .
Most Guinea  सूअर  found as  पालतु  were  either   मिला  undesirable  by  breeders or were bred to be pleasant pets regardless  of   कैसा  well they  मिलें   the   नस्ल  standard of perfection  .
The short  बाल  , Abyssinian , Peruvian and  sheltie  ( aka Silkie ) breeds  हैं  those most frequently seen as pets , and the  पूर्व  three are the core breeds  in   the   इतिहास  of  the  competitive showing of Guinea  सूअर  .
in  addition to their standard  रूप   ,  nearly all  breeds  come in a  साटन  variant .
Satins ,  due  to their  खोखला  hair shafts , possess coats of a  खास  gloss and shine .
however  , there is growing evidence  कि  the genes  जिम्मेदार  for the  साटन  coat also can  कारण  severe  अस्थि  problems  ,  including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease .
Showing  साटन   विसंगतियाँ  is prohibited by some cavy breeders  '  associations because of animal  welfare  reasons .
सब  cavy breeds have some shared general standards : the head profile should  be   rounded  ,  साथ  large eyes and large ,  चिकना  ears .
the  body  चाहिए  be  दमदार  and of compact build  .
Coat  रंग   चाहिए  in all variations be clearly  पारिभाषित  and thorough from  रूट  to tip .
These standards are best  मिले   by  long established , commonly bred breeds , as their breeders have  था  enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The  कोट   रंग  ideal of  शुभ  definition  और  thoroughness is rarely met by other than  the   चिकना   coated  breeds , which have had  खूब  established ,  पृथक  breeding lines  लिये  different colours .
राज्य   स्कूलों  (  भी  known as public  स्कूलों   or  government  स्कूलों   )  generally refer to primary or secondary  स्कूलों  mandated  लिये  or  offered  to all children  बगैर  charge paid  लिये  , in whole  or   in  part  ,  by taxation .
The term may also  refer  to institutions  of  post-secondary  शिक्षा   वित्तपोषित  ,  in  whole or in  भाग  ,  और  overseen by government  .
the  ribosome  assembles  polymeric  प्रोटीन   अणुओं  whose sequence  is  controlled  by  the  अनुक्रम  of  मेसेंजर  RNA  अणुओं  .
This is required by all  जीना  cells and associated viruses  .
the  ribosome ( from ribonucleic  एसिड   और  the Greek soma , meaning  ``   देह  '' )  is  a  विशाल   और  complex molecular machine  ,   मिला   भीतर   सब  living cells ,  कि  serves as the  प्राथमिक  site of  biological   प्रोटीन  synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link  अमीनो  acids together in  the   अनुक्रम  specified  by  messenger  rna  ( mRNA ) molecules  .
ribosomes  consist of two major subunits—the small ribosomal subunit reads  the   mrna   ,   जबकि  the large subunit  joins  amino  acids  to form a  polypeptide  chain .
Each subunit is  रचित   of  one  or  more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA  )  molecules  और  a variety of proteins .
The  अनुक्रम   of   डीएनए  encoding  लिये  a protein may be  कॉपी   अनेक  times  into   मेसेंजर   rna  ( mRNA  )  chains of a  समान  sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA  कड़ी  and use  it   as  a template for determining the  सही  sequence of amino  acids   in   a   particular  protein  .
Amino acids are  चयनित   ,  collected and carried  to  the  राइबोसोम  by transfer  rna  ( tRNA molecules ) , which enter one  भाग  of the ribosome and  bind   to   the   मेसेंजर  RNA chain  .
The attached amino acids are  तब  linked together by another part of  the  ribosome .
एकबार  the  प्रोटीन  is produced , it can then 'fold  '  to produce a  विशिष्ट  functional  three-dimensional   ढांचा   .
a  ribosome  is  made from complexes of RNAs and proteins and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein .
Each  राइबोसोम   is  divided into two  subunits  :  the   छोटी   subunit  binds to the mRNA pattern , while the larger subunit  बांधता  to the  trna  and  the  amino acids .
When a ribosome  finishes  reading an mRNA molecule ,  ये  two subunits split apart .
ribosomes  are  ribozymes  , because the catalytic peptidyl  transferase   कार्यकलाप   कि  links amino  acids  together is performed by the  ribosomal  RNA  .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea  और  eukaryotes  (  the three  डोमेन  of life on Earth ) differ  in   उनके  size , sequence  ,  structure , and the ratio of protein to  rna  .
The differences  in  structure allow some antibiotics  to   मार  bacteria by  inhibiting   उनके  ribosomes , while  leaving   इंसान   ribosomes  unaffected .
In bacteria  और  archaea , more than one ribosome may move along a  सिंगल  mRNA chain at one time , each `` reading '' its  अनुक्रम  and producing  a  corresponding protein molecule .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally  resemble  many features of those in  जीवाणु  , reflecting the likely  विकासवादी  origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude  ,  Christian de Duve  ,  and George Emil Palade were jointly  awarded   the  Nobel Prize in Physiology  or  Medicine , in 1974 , for  the  discovery  of  the ribosomes  .
The  नोबेल  Prize  in  Chemistry 2009  थी  awarded  to  Venkatraman  रामकृष्णन  ,  थामस  A. Steitz and Ada E.  yonath   लिये  determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The simplified internal structure  of  a chloroplast
अवलोकन  of the Calvin  साईकिल   और   कार्बन  fixation
The  light-independent  reactions  of  photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and  अन्य  compounds into  ग्लूकोज   .
These reactions occur in the  stroma  , the fluid-filled area of  a  chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
ये   प्रतिक्रियाएँ  take  the   light-dependent  reactions and  perform  further chemical  प्रक्रियाओं  on them  .
There  हैं  three phases to the  light-independent  reactions  ,  collectively  पुकारा   the  Calvin cycle :  कार्बन   fixation  ,  कटौती  reactions , and  ribulose  1,5-bisphosphate  (   rubp  )  regeneration  .
Despite its name  ,  this  प्रक्रम  occurs only  जब  light is available .
Plants do not carry out the Calvin cycle by night .
They  ,   बजाय  ,  रिलीज  sucrose into  the  phloem from their  मंड  reserves  .
This  प्रक्रम  happens when light is available independent  of  the kind of  photosynthesis   (  C3 carbon fixation  ,  C4  कार्बन   fixation   ,   और  Crassulacean Acid Metabolism  )  ;  कैम   पौधे   स्टोर  malic acid in their vacuoles every night and  रिलीज  it  by  day in order  to  make this  प्रक्रम  work .
In mathematics ,  a  square number or perfect square is an  पूर्णांक  that is the  वर्गाकार  of an  पूर्णांक  ;  in  other  शब्द  , it  is   the  product of some integer  साथ   itself   .
For example , 9 is  a  square  क्रमांक  ,  चूंकि  it can be written as .
The usual notation  लिये  the formula for  the   वर्गाकार   of  a number is not  the  product , but the equivalent exponentiation  ,  usually pronounced as  ``  squared  ''  .
The name  वर्गाकार  number  आता   इससे   the  name of the shape ; see below .
Square  संख्याएँ  are non-negative  .
Another way of saying that a ( non-negative )  क्रमांक  is  a  square number , is  कि   इसके  square roots are  again  integers  .
For  उदाहरण  , =  ±3   ,  so 9 is  a  square number .
a  positive integer that has  no  perfect  वर्गाकार  divisors except  1  is  पुकारा  square-free .
For  a   non-negative  integer , the  th   वर्गाकार   क्रमांक  is , with being  the  zeroth square .
The concept of  वर्गाकार  can  be  extended to some other number systems .
If  तर्कसंगत   संख्याएँ   हैं   शामिल   ,  then a square is the  अनुपात  of  दो  square integers , and ,  conversely  , the ratio of two square integers is a square  (  e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2  )  .
Starting with 1  ,  there  हैं  square numbers up to and including , where the expression represents the  मंजिल  of the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political history of the United  राज्य  that  reflected  a sense of national  purpose  and a  ख्वाहिश  for unity  among  Americans in  the  aftermath of the  napoleonic  Wars  .
the  era saw the collapse of the  federalist  Party and an end to the bitter partisan disputes  between   it  and the dominant Democratic-Republican party  दौरान   the  First Party  प्रणाली  .
President James Monroe  endeavored  to downplay partisan affiliation in making  उसके  nominations , with the ultimate goal of national unity and  eliminating  parties altogether from national politics  .
the  period is  so  closely  संबद्ध  with Monroe 's presidency  (  1817–1825  )  and his administrative  लक्ष्य   कि  his  नाम  and the  era  are virtually  synonymous  .
the   era   of   शुभ  Feelings marked a transition in  अमरीकी   राजनीती  with the end  of  the Federalist Party  as   अमेरिका  began to develop after the War of 1812  .
जबकि  America  थी  experiencing  विकास   और  prosperity after  the  war with Britain , this era  भी  marks the first  उदाहरण  of  आर्थिक  troubles  in  the growing  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
Mirroring the  अमरीकी  System proposed  by   हेनरी   मिट्टी   ,  protective  tariffs  and the  chartering   of   the  Second  बैंको  of the United States complicated  the  tension between  the  North and South  साथ  the coming of the first financial  संकट  .
जबकि   the  term “Era of Good  feelings”   is  usually viewed with irony because of  the  political  turmoil  , economic factors caused animosity between the North and South .
The  नामांकन  of  the  period by historians  as  one  of  “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony  or  skepticism , as the  इतिहास  of  the  era was one in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive  ,   विशेषकर  among  गिरोहों   भीतर  the Monroe administration  और  the Republican  पार्टी   .
The phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined  by  Benjamin  रसेल  ,  in  the Boston Federalist  समाचारपत्र  , Columbian Centinel  ,  on July  12   ,  1817 ,  following  Monroe  's   विज़िट   to   बोस्टन  ,  मैसाचुसेट्स  as part  of   उसके  good will  दौरे  of America  .
Mariel Margaret ``  मिया   ''  Hamm ( born March 17  ,  1972 ) is a retired American professional soccer  खिलाड़ी   .
hamm  played many years  as  a  आगे  for the United  राज्य  women 's national  सॉकर  team and was a founding  सदस्य  of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international  लक्ष्य  ,  अधिक  than any other player  ,  male or female ,  in   the   इतिहास  of soccer and is the third most capped female  खिलाड़ी   in   सॉकर   इतिहास  behind  kristine  Lilly  और   क्रिस्टी  Rampone  ,  appearing in  275  international matches .
Hamm was named  the  women 's  फीफा  World Player  of  the Year the first  दो  times that award was  दिए  ( in  2001   और  2002 ) , and is  सूचीबद्ध  as one of FIFA  's  125 best living players ( as chosen by Pelé )  .
वो  was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as  खूब   as  the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame and Texas  खेल  Hall of Fame  .
She  is  the  लेखक  of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning  in  Soccer  और   जीवन   और  appeared in the HBO  वृत्तचित्र  Dare to Dream :  the   स्टोरी  of the U.S. Women  's   सॉकर   टोली  .
वॉशिंगटन  Post columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm , `` Perhaps  the  most important athlete of the last 15 years .  ''
Hamm takes a corner  लात   .
The New York  रेड  Bulls is  an  American professional soccer  टोली   आधारित  in Harrison ,  नई  Jersey ,  representing  the New York  महानगर  area .
The team  competes  in the  पूर्वी   सम्मेलन  of Major League Soccer  (  MLS ) .
It  is   एक  of  the  ten  चार्टर  clubs  of   mls   ,  having competed  in   the   लीग  since  इसके   inception  .
the  team was a  founding  member  of   mls  ( 1996 ) ,  लकिन   रै  gone through several  नाम   परिवर्तन  .
The team was originally  ज्ञात  as the New York/New Jersey MetroStars through  1997   .
From the 1998  ऋतु  through the  2005  season , the team  थी  known  as   the  MetroStars .
on  March 9  ,   2006  ,  the  team was sold to  रेड   सांड  GmbH ,  अग्रणी  to the  टोली  's current name .
They  हैं  the  तभी  original  mls  franchise not to have won any significant trophy ( including regular season , playoffs , and  नॉकआउट  competition ) since inception  .
The team  's  best  परिणाम  in the MLS was the MLS  कप  final in 2008 .
In the  us  Open Cup  ,  the  metrostars  reached three semifinals  (   1997  , 1998 ,  2000   )   ,   पहले  reaching  उनके  first  फाइनल   in  2003 ,  खोने  1–0 to  the  Chicago  आग  .
on   अगस्त  26 , 2000 ,  the  Metros  '  Clint  mathis   नियत  an MLS  रिकार्ड  by scoring  पाँच  goals in a game  विरूद्ध  the Dallas  बर्न  .
कुछ  well-known players that  have   निभाई  for  the  team  शामिल  Giovanni  savarese   ,  Tim  हावर्ड  , Tony Meola , Tab Ramos  ,   alexi   lalas   ,   क्लिंट  Mathis ,  jozy  Altidore  ,  Michael Bradley  ,  Claudio Reyna ,  एडी  Pope , Roberto Donadoni  ,  Lothar  matthäus  ,  एडोल्फो  Valencia  ,   youri  Djorkaeff ,  amado   ग्वेरा  ,  जुआन  Pablo Ángel , Thierry  हेनरी  ,  juninho  Pernambucano , Jan Gunnar Solli  ,   राफेल   मार्ख़ेस  , and Tim Cahill .
The team has also had well-known coaches  ,  including Carlos Queiroz  ,  Carlos Alberto  parreira   ,  Bora Milutinović  ,   bob  Bradley , Mo  johnston   ,  Bruce  एरिना  and Hans  backe  .
Confucianism  ,  Taoism ,  और   buddhism  are one ,  a  painting in the litang style portraying  तीन   मेन  laughing by a river stream , 12th  सदी   ,  Song Dynasty  .
Estimating the number  of  Buddhists in the world , or in many countries  ,   is  difficult due  to  definitional  मुद्दे  as well as practical problems of enumeration  .
to  begin  साथ  ,  the  religious beliefs , practices ,  और   पहचान  of East  एशियाइ   (   जो  comprise the majority  of  the world 's  बौद्धों   by  any measure )  प्रायः  blend  buddhism  with other traditions including Confucianism  ,  the Chinese folk  धर्म   ,   daoism  , Shinto  ,  and  कोरियाई  shamanism .
Most  अनुसरणकर्ता  of Buddhism do  नहीं  belong to  संरचित  congregations , or  observe   a  definite ritual of adherence such as taking Refuge , making it difficult  to  accurately estimate  the  number of practitioners .
an  additional challenge is the hostility of  अनेक   नेशनल   सरकारें   (  often Communist  ones  such as China  or  North  कोरियाई  ) to religion  generally  or  to  Buddhism specifically .
Government  नीतियों  in  ये   देशों   may  encourage the under-reporting or  non-reporting  of religious  adherence   ,   resulting  in official totals that  may  drastically  underestimate  the number of  धार्मिक  practitioners  in  these countries  .
अनुमान  of the  विश्वव्यापी  Buddhist population range from 350 million to over  एक  billion  ,  but cluster nearer  to  the  पहला  figure .
adherents.com  ( as of 2012  )  suggests  a  figure of 397 million  .
By major branches , the numbers are  as  follows:
( 1 )  महायान  Buddhism  ,   सहित  East Asian Buddhism , with  no   कम  than  185   लाख  adherents , and possibly several  टाइम्स  that  अनेक  ( again  ,  depending on  definitional   मुद्दे  ) .
This  is  the  predominant   रूप  of Buddhism  practiced  in China , South  कोरियाई  , Japan ,  ताईवान  , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 )  थेरवाद  Buddhism , with no fewer  than   125  million adherents  .
This  is  the predominant  रूप   of  Buddhism practiced in Cambodia , Thailand , Laos , Sri Lanka , and  बर्मा  .
(  3   )  Vajrayana  buddhism  , with approximately  20  million adherents  .
This  रूप  predominates in  the   वृहद  Tibetan and  मंगोलियाई   regions  ,  as  well as  in  the Himalayas .
besides   the  independent countries of Mongolia  और  Bhutan , and  विभिन्न  territories within  कया  is now western China  ,   वज्रयान   is   परंपरागत  to  निश्चित  regions of  रूस   (   e.g  . Kalmykia ,  बुर्यातिया   )   ,  India (  e.g   .   लद्दाख  , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g  .  Khumbu )  .
Vajrayana ,  भी  known as Tibetan  buddhism  ,  is  often conflated  साथ   तांत्रिक  Buddhism , but this is  imprecise   ,  as  shingon  and other  फ़ॉर्म   of  East  एशियाई  Buddhism  भी  practice tantra .
at  least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka ,  थाईलैंड   ,  Cambodia , Laos  ,  Burma  ,  Bhutan  ,  and  मंगोल  )  have   unambiguous   बौद्ध  majorities .
depending  on how one calculates  चाइनीज   और  other  ईस्ट   एशियाई  adherents , this figure might  विस्तार  to include  अनेक  more countries  .
In addition ,  buddhism   is  the  राज्य  religion of Cambodia and Bhutan , and receives prominent  जिक्र  in the  constitutions  of Thailand and Sri Lanka  .
In northern India and Nepal , the land where  buddhism   थी   born  , the religion  severely  declined during the first  मिलेनियम  .
Whether this decline  थी  due to the Islamic conquest of northern  इण्डिया  , or to other factors  ,  remains  विवादास्पद  .
See the article Decline  of  Buddhism in  इण्डिया  .
James Butler Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 –  अगस्त  2 ,  1876  ) ,  बेहतर   ज्ञात  as Wild Bill  hickok   ,  was  a  folk hero of  the  American  बूढ़ा  West .
उसके   कौशल  as a gunfighter  और  scout  ,  along  साथ  his reputation as  a  lawman ,  provided  the basis for his fame  ,  although some of his reported  कारनामे  are  fictionalized   .
Born  और   उठाया  on a  फार्म   in  rural  इलिनोइस  ,  hickok   गई  west  at   आयु  18  as  a  भगोड़े  from justice , first working  as  a stagecoach driver ,  पहले   he  became a lawman in  the   frontier  territories  of  Kansas and Nebraska .
He  लड़ा  for the Union Army during the  अमरीकी   सिविल  War  ,  and gained  publicity  after the  युद्ध  as  a  scout  ,  marksman  ,  actor , and professional gambler .
Between  उसके   law-enforcement  duties and gambling , which  easily  overlapped , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
he   थी   शॉट  and  मारे  while playing poker in the Nuttal & Mann 's Saloon in Deadwood ,  डकोटा  Territory  (  now South  डकोटा   )  .
Artist 's conception  of   the   जिज्ञासा  rover vaporizing  चट्टान  on  मंगल  .
The  रोवर  landed on  मंगल   in  August 2012  .
A  मंगल  rover  is  an automated motor  गाडी  which propels  itself  across  the  surface of the planet Mars after  लैंडिंग  .
रोवर्स  have several advantages over  stationary   landers  :  वे   जाँचें  more  territory   ,  they  can  be directed to  दिलचस्प  features , they can  प्लेस   themselves   in   सनी   स्थितियाँ   to   मौसम  winter  महीने  and they can advance the knowledge of how to  perform  very  रिमोट  robotic  गाडी  control  .
There have been four successful  robotically   संचालित  Mars  रोवर्स  .
the   जेट  Propulsion Laboratory managed  the   मंगल   pathfinder   मिशन  and  इसके  now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages  the  Mars Exploration Rover  मिशन  's  क्रियाशील  Opportunity rover and inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission  ,  the Curiosity  रोवर  .
A  वित्तीय  audit ,  or   अधिक   accurately  , an audit of financial statements , is the verification  of   the  financial  कथन  of a legal  एंटिटी   ,  with  a   दृश्य   to  express  an   ऑडिट   राय  .
The audit  राय  is intended to  provide  reasonable assurance ,  लकिन   नहीं  absolute assurance  ,  that the financial statements  हैं   प्रस्तुत   fairly   ,   in  all material  respects   ,  and/or give a true and fair  दृश्य   in  accordance with the financial  रिपोर्टिंग  framework .
The purpose of  an  audit is provide and objective  स्वतंत्र   परिक्षा  of the financial statements , which increases the value and credibility of the financial statements  उत्पादित  by management , thus  बढ़ाएँ  user confidence in  the   वित्तीय   बयान   ,  reduce investor risk and  नतीजतन  reduce the cost  of  capital  of   the  preparer of  the  financial statements  .
Financial  audits  are typically  performed  by firms of practicing accountants  जो  are  विशेषज्ञ  in  वित्तीय   रिपोर्टिंग  .
The financial audit  is  one of many assurance functions provided by  हिसाब   firms  .
Many organizations separately  employ  or hire internal auditors ,  जो  do not attest to financial reports but focus mainly on the internal controls  of  the organization .
External auditors may  चुनें  to place limited  रिलायंस   on   the  work  of  internal  auditors  .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy  in  the financial disclosures  बना  by an organization  ,  therefore would likely to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous  dealings  .
internationally  ,  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   मानकों   on  Auditing (  isa  ) issued  by   the  International Auditing  और  Assurance Standards Board (  iaasb  ) is considered as  the  benchmark  लिये  audit  प्रक्रम   .
Almost all jurisdictions require  auditors   to  follow the ISA  or  a local  विभिन्नता  of the ISA  .
Dollar  सिक्के  have  महरूम  minted  in   the  United States  in   सुनहरा   ,  silver , and base  मेटल  versions .
The term silver  डालर   is  often used for  कोई  large white metal  सिक्का   जारी  by  the  United  राज्य  with a face value of one dollar , although  purists  insist that  a  dollar is not silver unless  it  contains some  of   कि   मेटल  .
Silver dollars ,  the  first dollar  सिक्का  issue  ,  were minted beginning in 1794 .
Gold dollars and gold-colored dollars  have  also  महरूम  produced by the United States .
The Sacagawea and Presidential dollars are often referred to  as   ``  golden  डॉलर  '' .
In modern times , dollar coins have not  महरूम  very popular  in  the United States .
despite  efforts by the  सरकारी  to promote  उनके  use , most Americans currently use  the  one dollar  विधेयक  rather than  डालर  coins .
In straight and  स्तर  flight lift ( L ) equals weight  (  W ) .
In a banked  फेरे   of  60°  ,   लिफ्ट  equals double the  वज़न   (  L=2W )  .
the  pilot  अनुभवों   2g  and a  doubled  weight .
The steeper  the  bank ,  the  greater the g-forces .
This  top-fuel  dragster  can   accelerate  from zero to in 0.86  सेकेंड  .
This is a horizontal  त्वरण  of 5.3  g.   संयुक्त  with  the  vertical  g-force  in the stationary  मामला  the Pythagorean theorem yields  a   g   फ़ोर्स  of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from  गुरुत्वाकर्षक  )  is  a term for  accelerations  felt as weight  और   measurable   by  accelerometers .
it  is not a force , per  se   ,  but  a  force per unit mass  .
Since such  a  force is perceived as a weight  ,  any g-force can  be  described as  a   ``   वज़न  per unit  द्रव्यमान  ''  (  see  the  synonym specific weight ) .
the  g-force acceleration acts  as  a multiplier  of  weight-like forces for  प्रत्येक  unit of  an  object 's mass , and (  सहेजें  for certain electromagnetic  फ़ोर्स  influences  )  is the  कारण   of   an   ऑब्जेक्ट   's   त्वरण  in relation to free-fall  .
इस  acceleration experienced by  an  object is due to  the  vector  योग  of non-gravitational  शक्तियां   एक्टिंग   on   an  object free to  मूव  .
The accelerations that  हैं  not produced by gravity are termed proper  accelerations  , and  it  is  तभी  these that are measured in  g-force   इकाई  .
They cause  तनावों  and strains on objects .
Because of these strains  ,   विशाल  g-forces may be  destructive  .
Gravitation acting alone  करता   नहीं  produce a g-force , even  हालांकि   g-forces  are  expressed  in multiples of  the   त्वरण  of  a  standard gravity .
Thus  ,  the  मानक   गुरुत्वाकर्षक   त्वरण  at the Earth 's  सतह  produces g-force only indirectly , as a result of resistance to it  by  mechanical  शक्तियां  .
The  1  g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's  सतह  is  caused  by mechanical force exerted  in   the  upward direction by  the   मैदान   ,  keeping the object  इससे  going into free-fall .
The upward  फ़ोर्स   इससे  the ground  ensures  that an object  at  rest on  the   धरती  's surface is accelerating relative to the  free-fall  condition , which  is  the  पाथ  that the object would follow  जब  falling freely toward  the  Earth  's  center .
Objects  अनुमत  to  free-fall   in  an inertial trajectory  अंतर्गत  the influence of  gravitation-only  , feel no g-force  .
इस  is demonstrated  by   the  `` zero-g ''  शर्तें   अंदर  a freely  गिरना  elevator falling toward  the  Earth 's  बीच  (  in  vacuum )  ,  or  (   to   शुभ  approximation ) conditions inside a  spacecraft  in  धरती  orbit .
These are examples  of  coordinate acceleration ( a change in velocity ) without a  सनसनी   of  weight .
the  experience of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however  it  is produced , is  synonymous  with  weightlessness  .
In the absence of gravitational  फ़ील्ड  , or in  दिशानिर्देश   at  right angles to  उन्हें  , proper  और  coordinate accelerations  हैं  the same ,  और  any coordinate acceleration  जरूर  be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration  .
an   उदाहरण  here is a rocket in  फ़्री  space , in  जिससे   सरल  changes in velocity are  उत्पादित  by the engines ,  और  produce  g-forces  on the rocket and passengers .
An  augur  holding a  lituus   ,  the curved  wand  often  प्रयुक्त   as  a symbol  of  augury on Roman coins
The augur  थी  a priest  और  official in the  शास्त्रीय  world  ,   विशेषकर  ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main  भूमिका   थी  to  interpret  the will of the  देवताओं  by studying the  उड़ान   of  birds  :  whether  वे   हैं   उड़ती  in groups  or  alone  ,   कया   noises   वे   मेक  as  वे   मक्खी  , direction of  उड़ान  and what kind of  पक्षियों   वे  are  .
This was  ज्ञात  as `` taking the auspices  .  ''
The  रस्म   और  function of the augur was central to any  प्रमुख   undertaking  in Roman society—public  or   private—including   matters   of  war ,  कॉमर्स  , and religion .
The  रोमन   इतिहासकार   livy  stresses the importance  of  the augurs : `` Who does not know that this city was  संस्थापित   तभी   बाद  taking the  auspices  , that everything  in  war  और   in   सलाम  , at  घर  and abroad , was  किया  only after  लेने  the  auspices  ? ''
Farmington Hills is  an  affluent  जातियाँ  in southeastern  मिशिगन  .
It is the second largest city in Oakland County  in   the   u.S.  state of  मिशिगन  .
Its population  थी  79,740 at  the  2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
It is part of  the  upscale  northwestern  suburbs  of   महानगर  Detroit and is also northeast of downtown Ann  arbor  .
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as  एक   of   the  safest cities  in   the  United States  ,  as  खूब  as  in   the   राज्य  of Michigan  .
In  2010   ,  the  क्षेत्रफल  ranked  as  the 30th safest  नगर   in  America .
हालांकि  the two  शहरों  have separate services  और   पता  , Farmington and Farmington Hills are often  विचार   of  as the  वही  community .
Features of the community include a  recently  renovated downtown ,  boutiques  , a vintage  सिनेमा  ,  numerous   रेस्तरां  , exotic car  dealerships  , art galleries  ,  and public parks including Heritage Park .
There are several  ऐतिहासिक  sites including the  longacre  House  और  the Governor Warner Mansion .
Both cities are served by Farmington Public Schools  .
Farmington Hills serves as a major business center  लिये   the  greater Detroit  क्षेत्रफल  .
Present-day impression  of   a  Late Bronze Age seal
Town seal  (  matrix )  of  Náchod from 1570
a  seal is a  यंत्र  for making  an  impression in wax ,  मिट्टी  , paper , or some other medium ,  सहित  an  embossment   on  paper , and is  भी  the  छाप  thus made .
the  original  purpose  was  to  authenticate  a  document , a  wrapper  for one such as a modern  लिफाफा  ,  or  the cover of  a   संग्राहक   or  package  पकड़कर  valuables or  अन्य  objects  .
the  sealing  प्रक्रम  is  essentially  that  of  a mould , with the final image represented on  the  device  लिये  making  the  impression by a  mirror-image  design  ,  incised in  sunken-  (  or  counter- ) relief or  intaglio  .
the   seal-making  device  is   भी  referred to  as  the seal  मेट्रिक्स  or  die  ;  the  imprint it creates as the seal impression  (  or ,  अधिक  rarely , the  sealing  )  .
If the impression  is  made purely as  a   राहत  resulting from the  वृहद  pressure  on  the paper where  the  high  भाग  of  the   मेट्रिक्स   टच   ,  the  मुहर  is known as a dry seal ; in all  अन्य  cases a  द्रव  or liquified medium ( such  as  ink or  मोम  ) is used , usually in  another  color  than  the paper  .
For legal  उद्देश्य  , the definition of a seal may be extended to  शामिल   रबर  stamps , or  लिखने   निर्दिष्ट  words ( `` seal '' or  ``   l.s   .   ``   )   .
In the United States , the word  ``  seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color  )  , which  may  be used in a variety of contexts including architectural  जमावट   ,   on   ध्वज   ,  or  on  official  letterheads  .
Thus , for example  ,   the   ग्रेट   मुहर  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  , among  अन्य  uses , appears  on  the  रिवर्स  of the  one-dollar   विधेयक   ;  and  अनेक   of   the  seals of the U.S. states appear on  उनके  respective  राज्य  flags .
In  यूरोपीय  ,  हालांकि   coats  of  बाहें   और  heraldic  बैज  may well  विशेषता   in   ऐसे  contexts  as   खूब   as  on seals  ,  the seal design  in  its entirety rarely  appears  as an emblem .
the  study of  seals  is  ज्ञात  as sigillography or sphragistics .
Groundhog  दिन   (   पेन्सिलवेनिया  German : Grundsaudaag  ,  Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2 .
According to folklore  ,  if it  is  cloudy when a groundhog emerges  इससे  its burrow on  इस  day  ,  then spring will come early ; if it is sunny , the  groundhog   होगा  supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into  इसके   burrow  , and the winter weather  होगा   continue  for six more weeks .
Modern customs of the  अवकाश  involve  जश्न  where early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog emerging from its burrow .
in  southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog Lodges (  grundsow  Lodges ) celebrate the  अवकाश  with fersommlinge , social  कार्यक्रम  in which food is served  ,  speeches are  बना  ,  और  one or more  g'spiel   (  plays or  skits   )   हैं  performed for  entertainment   .
The Pennsylvania German dialect  is  the only language spoken at the event  ,  and those who speak  अंग्रेज़ी   अदा  a penalty , usually in the form of a nickel , dime , or  क्वार्टर  per word spoken  ,  with the money put  into   a  bowl in the center  of   the  table .
The largest  groundhog  Day  जश्न  is held  in  Punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized  और  popular  परंपरा  ,  प्राप्त  widespread  ध्यान   as   a  result  of  the  1993  film Groundhog Day ,  जिससे   थी   नियत   in  Punxsutawney , PA  (  though filmed  primarily  in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney  फिल  .
High resolution  चित्र   of  Tampa Bay region
The Tampa Bay  क्षेत्रफल   रै   a   आर्द्र  subtropical climate  (  Koppen  cfa   )  , with  गरम  and humid summers  साथ  frequent thunderstorms and drier  सर्दियों   साथ  freezing  temperatures   occurring  every 2–3 years .
The area experiences  a  significant  गर्मियाँ  wet  ऋतु  , as nearly two-thirds of the  सालाना   वर्षण  falls in  the  months of June  through  September  .
The  क्षेत्रफल   is  listed  by   the  United  राज्य  Department  of  Agriculture (  यूएसडीए  ) as being in hardiness zone  10   ,  which is  परिचय  the northern limit of  जहाँ   नारियल   हथेलियां   और  royal palms can  be  grown .
Highs usually range between  65   और  95 °F ( 18 and 35 °C )  साल  round  .
Though known  लिये   hot  summers  ,  Tampa  's  official high has never  पहुँचे  100 °F ( 38 °C ) – the city 's all-time record temperature  is  99 °F (  37  °C )  .
St. Petersburg 's all-time  रिकार्ड  high is  exactly  100 °F  (  38  °c  ) .
Pinellas County  झूठ  on  a   प्रायद्वीप   between   tampa  Bay and  the   गल्फ   of  Mexico , and much of the  नगर  of Tampa lies on a smaller  प्रायद्वीप  jutting out into Tampa  खाड़ी  .
This  निकटता  to  विशाल   लाशें  of water  दोनो  moderates  temperatures  and introduces large amounts  of   आर्द्रता  into  the  atmosphere .
In general , the  लोकल  communities farthest  इससे  the coast have larger  तापमान  ranges  ,  both during a single day  और  throughout the  सीज़न  of the year  .
A  आरेख   of  the electromagnetic spectrum ,  प्रर्दशित  various properties across  the  range of  बारंबारता   और  wavelengths
the  electromagnetic spectrum is the  दायरा   of  all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The `` electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम  '' of  an  object has a different  अर्थ  ,  और  is  बजाय  the  characteristic  distribution of electromagnetic  विकिरण  emitted or absorbed by that  particular  object .
The  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   वर्णक्रम   extends  from below the low  बारंबारता  used for modern radio communication  to   गामा  radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby  covering  wavelengths from  हज़ारों  of kilometers  bas   to  a fraction  of  the size of  an  atom  .
The limit for  long   wavelengths   is   the   आकार  of the  ब्रह्मांड   itself  , while  it  is thought that the  छोटी  wavelength  सीमा  is  in   the  vicinity of  the  Planck length  ,  although in principle the spectrum  is   अनन्त  and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for  spectroscopic  and  अन्य   probing  interactions , as ways to study  और  characterize matter .
In addition , radiation  इससे  various parts of the spectrum  रै  found many other uses for communications and  निर्माण  (  देखिए  electromagnetic radiation for  अधिक   अनुप्रयोग   )  .
Legend
फ्रैंकलिन  Delano Roosevelt  (  or ;  जनवरी  30 , 1882 – April 12  ,   1945   )  , also known by his initials , FDR ,  थी   the  32nd  अध्यक्ष  of the United  राज्य   (  1933–1945 ) and a central  फिगर  in  संसार  events during the  mid-20th  century ,  अग्रणी   the  United  राज्य   दौरान  a time  of  worldwide economic  अवसाद   और  total war .
A  प्रबल   नेता  of the Democratic Party and  the  only American  अध्यक्ष  elected to more  than  two terms ,  he  built  a  New  सौदे  Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932 ,  as  his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle  तीसरा  of  the  20th  सदी   .
With  the  bouncy  लोकप्रिय  song  ``   प्रसन्न  Days  हैं  Here  again  ``  as  his  अभियान  theme , FDR defeated  लाज़िम   रिपब्लिकन   हर्बर्ट  Hoover  in   नवम्बर  1932  ,   at  the depth  of   the   ग्रेट   अवसाद  .
Energized by his  निजी  victory over  पोलियो  , FDR 's  unfailing  optimism and  सक्रियता  contributed to a renewal  of  the national spirit  .
He worked closely with  अंग्रेजों   प्रधान  Minister  विंस्टन  Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin  in  leading the Allies  विरूद्ध  Germany  और  Japan in World War  ii   ,  and  restoring  prosperity to the  स्वदेश  's economy .
in  his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt  पथप्रदर्शन   प्रमुख  legislation and  जारी  a  profusion   of  executive orders that instituted  the   नई  Deal  —a  variety of programs designed to  उपज  relief ( government  कार्य  for the unemployed )  ,  recovery ( economic  विकास   )  ,  और  reform (  through  regulation of  वॉल   गली  , banks and transportation )  .
The  अर्थव्यवस्था  improved rapidly from  1933  to 1937 ,  लकिन  then  relapsed  into a deep  मंदी  .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that  formed  in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any  considerable  legislation  ;  it abolished many  of  the  राहत   कार्यक्रम  when unemployment diminished during  संसार  War II .
सबसे  of the regulations on business  यहूद   ended   परिचय  1975–85 , except for  the   विनियमन  of Wall Street  by  the  प्रतिभूति   और   एक्सचेंज   आयोग  , which still exists .
Along  साथ  several smaller  कार्यक्रम  , major  surviving  programs include  the   संघीय  Deposit Insurance Corporation , which was created  in  1933  ,  and  सोशल  Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As  संसार  War  ii  loomed after  1938  , with  the  Japanese invasion of China  और   the  aggression of  नाजी  Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic  और   वित्तीय   support  to China and Great  ब्रिटेन  , while remaining officially  न्यूट्रल  .
उसके  goal was  to  make  अमेरिका  the `` Arsenal of Democracy  ``   जिससे  would  सप्लाई  munitions to the  allies   .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional  स्वीकृति  , provided Lend-Lease  सहायता  to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
साथ   बहुत  strong national  support  , he made war  on  Japan  और  Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7 , 1941 ,  कॉलिंग   it  a `` date which will  सजीव  in infamy  ``  .
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war  प्रयत्न   .
As an active military leader  ,  Roosevelt implemented  an   overall   युद्ध  strategy on  दो   fronts  that ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development  of  the world 's first atom  बमबारी   .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the  internment  of  100,000  Japanese American  नागरिकों  .
Unemployment dropped  to  2 %  ,  relief programs  largely  ended , and the  औद्योगिक   अर्थव्यवस्था  grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved  to  new  कार्य  in  युद्ध  centers , and 16 million men and 300,000  महिलाओं  were drafted  or  volunteered for military  सेवा  .
Roosevelt  वर्चस्व  the  अमरीकी  political scene not  तभी   दौरान  the  बारह  years of  उसके   प्रेसिडेंसी  , but also for decades  afterward  .
He  orchestrated  the  realignment  of voters  कि  created  the  Fifth Party System .
FDR  's  New Deal Coalition united labor unions , big  नगर   मशीने  ,  श्वेत  ethnics , African  अमेरिकी  and  ग्रामीण   श्वेत  Southerners .
he   भी  influenced the later creation  of   the  United Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is  consistently   रेटेड  by  विद्वानों  as  एक  of the top  तीन   u.S.  Presidents ,  साथ  with Abraham Lincoln  और  George  वॉशिंगटन   .
A liberal  डेमोक्रेट   ,  Roosevelt  पारिभाषित  his  वैचारिक   स्थिति   as   ``  a little left  of  center . ''
a   संयुक्त  Committee  is  a  पद  in politics  कि  is  प्रयुक्त  to refer to  a   कमेटी  made  up   of  members  of  both chambers of a bicameral legislature  .
in   अन्य  contexts ,  it  refers to a committee with  सदस्यों  from more than  एक   संगठन  .
The regulation of prostitution  in  the United  राज्य   is  not among the enumerated  शक्तियां  of the federal government ;  अंतर्गत   the  Tenth Amendment  to  the United States Constitution , it is  इसलिए  exclusively the domain of the  राज्य  to permit ,  prohibit  , or  वरना  regulate  वाणिज्यिक  sex , except  insofar  as  कॉंग्रेस  may regulate it as  भाग  of interstate commerce with laws  जैसे   the  Mann  अधिनियम   .
in  most  राज्य  , prostitution is  माना  a misdemeanor in the category  of  public order crime ,  a  crime that  disrupts  the order of  a  community .
it   थी   at   एक   समय  considered to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently  ,  Nevada is the only  राज्य   to  allow brothel prostitution  ,   the  terms of which  हैं  stipulated in the  नेवाडा  Revised Statutes .
Only  8  counties currently  contain  active brothels .
All forms  of  prostitution are illegal in Clark County  (  which contains the Las  vegas–paradise   महानगर  area ) , Washoe County  (   जिससे  contains Reno  )   ,  Carson City , Douglas County  ,  and Lincoln County  .
The other counties theoretically  allow  brothel  वेश्यावृति  ,  लकिन  some of these counties currently  have  no active brothels .
गली  prostitution  ,   ``  pandering , '' and living  बंद  of the proceeds of a prostitute  remain  illegal under  नेवाडा  law , as  elsewhere   in   the   देश  .
as  with other countries  ,  prostitution in the United States can  be  divided into  तीन  broad categories  :   गली  prostitution , brothel prostitution ,  और  escort prostitution  .
the  national  ध्वज   of   the   संयुक्त   राज्य   of  America ,  प्रायः   बस   referred  to as the  अमरीकी  flag , consists of  तेरह  equal horizontal stripes  of   रेड   (   शीर्ष  and bottom ) alternating  साथ   श्वेत  , with a blue  आयताकार   in   the  canton  (  referred to specifically as the `` union  ''   )  bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of  छह  stars ( top and bottom  )  alternating  साथ  rows of  पाँच  stars .
The 50  सितारों   on  the flag represent  the  50 states of the  संयुक्त  States of America and the  13   धारियाँ  represent the thirteen British colonies that  घोषित   स्वतंत्रता  from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became  the  first states  in  the  संघ  .
Nicknames  लिये  the  ध्वज  include the  ``  Stars and Stripes ''  ,  `` Old Glory  ``   ,  and `` The Star-Spangled  ध्वज  . ''
इण्डिया  is a federal union of states  comprising  twenty-eight states and seven union  territories  .
The  राज्य  and  territories  are  further  subdivided  into   जिले  and  so   on   .
congressional  districts for the 113th United  राज्य   कॉंग्रेस
2010   जनसांख्यिकी  change:
बदलें  in apportionment of congressional districts , starting  in   2013   ,   as  a result of the  2010  census .
2000 Census change:
Change in  apportionment  of  congressional  districts  ,  from  2003  to 2013 ,  as  a  परिणाम  of the 2000 census .
इस   is  a complete list of congressional districts for representation in the United  राज्य  House of Representatives .
the  quantity  (   apportionment  ) and boundaries (  redistricting  )  of  districts  हैं  determined  बाद  each  जनसांख्यिकी  ,  हालांकि   in  some cases states have changed  the  boundaries more than once  प्रति  census .
इस   सूची  includes the 435  वर्तमान  and over 200 obsolete districts .
For  उदाहरण  , since the  2000   जनसांख्यिकी  , Nebraska has had three districts  ,   लकिन  it used to  have  as many as six .
In the first  दशक   of   the  twenty-first  सदी   ,   टेक्सास  had 32 districts , but has  चूंकि   added  four due to reapportionment as  a  result of the 2010 census .
Other states have lost  जिले  since the number of congressional seats has been set  at   435  by statute  .
Also  शामिल  here are non-voting delegations : six current and  चार   obsolete  .
the  boundaries of  जिले  often shift with each  redistricting  .
Over  समय   ,   the  region and  जनसांख्यिकी  represented  in  a district can change substantially  .
furthermore  ,  जिले   sometimes  retain the same  सीमाएँ  while changing their district numbers .
mariah  Carey ( born March  27  , 1970  )  is an American singer , songwriter  ,  record producer ,  अभिनेत्री  , and  लोकसेवक   .
Under the guidance  of  Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola , Carey released her self-titled debut  स्टुडियो   एल्बम  Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it  गई   multi-platinum   और  spawned  चार   लगातार  number  एक  singles on  the  U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
Following  उसके  marriage  to  Mottola  in  1993 and success with hit  रिकॉर्ड  Emotions ( 1991 ) , Music Box ( 1993 ) ,  और  Merry  क्रिसमस   (  1994 ) , Carey was established as Columbia  's  highest-selling act .
daydream   (  1995 ) made music history when its second single  ``  One Sweet  दिन  ``  ,  a  duet  with  बॉयज  II Men  ,  spent  a  record sixteen weeks on top  of   the  Billboard  hot  100 , and remains the  longest-running  number-one song in U.S. chart  इतिहास  .
During the recording of the album ,  कैरी  began to deviate from  उसके  R & B and pop beginnings  और  slowly traversed  into  hip  हॉप  .
इस  musical change became  evident  with the  रिलीज  of Butterfly  (  1997 )  ,  at which  समय  Carey had separated  इससे  Mottola  .
Carey  बाएँ  Columbia  in  2000 ,  और  signed a record-breaking  $  100 million recording contract  साथ  Virgin  रिकॉर्ड  .
Before the release  of  her  पहला  feature  फिल्मी  Glitter  (  2001 )  ,   वो  suffered a  शारीरिक   और   emotional   विश्लेषण  and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion .
following  the film 's  ग़रीब   रिसेप्शन  ,  वो  was  खरीदा  out  of   उसके  recording contract for $ 50  लाख  , which led to a decline  in  her career .
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002 ,  और  after an unsuccessful  काल  , returned  to  the top of  म्यूज़िक  charts  साथ  The  emancipation   of  Mimi (  2005  ) .
इसके   दूसरी  single  ``   we  Belong Together `` became her  सबसे  successful single of the 2000s , and  थी   बाद  named  ``  Song of the Decade  ''   by  Billboard .
कैरी  once again  ventured  into film with  a  well-received starring  भूमिका  in ( 2009  )  ; she was awarded the  ``  Breakthrough Performance Award '' at the Palm  स्रोतों  International  फिल्मी  Festival , and Black  रील  and NAACP Image Award  nominations  .
In a career spanning over  दो   दशकों   ,  Carey has sold  अधिक   than  200 million records worldwide  ,  making her one  of  the best-selling  म्यूज़िक   कलाकारों  of all time  .
in  1998 , she was honored as the world  's   best-selling  recording artist of  the  1990s at  the  World Music Awards .
कैरी  was also named  the  best-selling female artist  of  the  मिलेनियम   in   2000  .
According to the Recording Industry Association of America  ,   वो   is  the third best-selling female artist in the United States  ,  with 63.5 million certified  एल्बम  .
साथ  the  रिलीज  of  ``  Touch My Body  ``  (  2008  ) , Carey gained her  eighteenth  number one  सिंगल   in   the  United States  ,  more  than  any other solo artist .
In 2012 ,  कैरी  was ranked second on VH1  's   सूची   of  the `` 100 Greatest Women in  म्यूज़िक   ''   .
Aside from her  वाणिज्यिक   accomplishments  , Carey has  जीती  five  ग्रैमी  Awards ,  17  World Music  पुरस्कार   ,   11  American  म्यूज़िक  Awards , and  31  Billboard Music Awards .
referred   to  as  the  ``  songbird  supreme '' by the  गिनीज  World Records  ,  she is famed  लिये  her five-octave  गायन  range  ,   शक्ति   ,  melismatic style and  हस्ताक्षर  use of the whistle  पंजीकरण  .
Stratocumulus stratiformis cumulogenitus
in  meteorology ,  a   बादल  is a  दृश्य  mass of liquid  droplets  or  frozen   crystals  made of water  or   विभिन्न  chemicals suspended in the  माहौल  above the surface of a planetary body  .
These suspended particles are  भी  known as  aerosols   .
Clouds in Earth  's  atmosphere are studied  in   the  cloud physics branch of  meteorology  .
Two  प्रक्रियाओं  ,  संभवतः  acting together  ,  can  सीसे   to   एयर  becoming saturated ; cooling the air  or  adding water vapor to  the  air  .
In general ,  वर्षण  will  पतन  to the  सतह   ;  an exception  is  virga  ,   जिससे   evaporates   पहले  reaching the  सतह   .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  cloud classification  प्रणाली   is   आधारित  on the  फैक्ट  clouds in their most basic  फ़ॉर्म   can  show  free-convective  upward  विकास  like cumulus , appear in non-convective layered  चादरें  such  as  stratus  ,  or  लो  the  रूप  of thin  तंतुमय  wisps , as in the  मामला  of cirrus .
Prefixes are used  in  connection with clouds to express variations or complexities in  ये   मौलिक  forms or  to  specify middle  or  high altitude  सीमाएँ  .
ये  include  strato-   लिये   कम   बादल  with limited convection  कि  form  ज़्यादातर   in   uneven   परतों  , cumulo- for  जटिल  highly-convective  तूफ़ान  clouds ,  nimbo-  for  मोटा  layered  बादल   of   कुछ  complexity that  can   उपज  moderate to heavy precipitation , alto- for middle  बादल  ,  और  cirro- for high  बादल  ; the latter  दो  of which may be of simple  or  moderately complex structure  .
Whether  or   नहीं   a  cloud is low , middle  ,  or high level depends on how far above  the  ground its base forms .
Cloud types with  significant  vertical extent can  रूप  in the low or middle  ऊँचाई  ranges  depending   on  the moisture content of the air  .
Clouds in  the  troposphere  have  Latin names  due  to the popular adaptation of Luke Howard  's  cloud categorization system ,  जिससे   began  to spread in popularity during December  1802  .
Synoptic surface weather  observations   उपयोग   कोड  numbers to record and report the types of tropospheric cloud visible  at   प्रत्येक  scheduled observation  समय   आधारित  on  the   ऊँचाई  and physical  रूप   of   the   बादल  .
While a  बहुमत  of  बादल   रूप  in  धरती  's troposphere , there are occasions  जब  clouds  in  the stratosphere and mesosphere can  be  observed  .
These three main layers of the  माहौल   जहाँ  clouds  may  be seen  हैं  collectively  ज्ञात   as   the  homosphere .
Above this  झूठ   the  thermosphere and exosphere , which together make up the  heterosphere  that marks the transition  to  outer space .
बादल  have been  observed  on other  ग्रह   और  moons within the Solar System , but  ,  due to their  अलग  temperature  विशेषताएँ  ,  वे   हैं  composed of other substances such as methane ,  अमोनिया  ,  और   sulfuric  acid .
galveston  County  is  a county  स्तिथ  in the U.S. state of Texas within the Houston–Sugar Land–Baytown  महानगर  area .
As  of  the  2010   जनसांख्यिकी  , the population was  291,309  .
Its county seat is Galveston .
League City  is  the largest city  in  Galveston  काउंटी  in terms of population ; URL_http between 2000  और  2005 it  surpassed   galveston   as  the county 's  largest   नगर  .
Galveston County was founded  in  1838  .
Nassau
Freeport , Bahamas
इस   is  a list of cities in the Bahamas .
The following table lists the city or town name  ,   the  geographic coordinates  ,   the  population as of the  1990  census ,  an  estimate  of  the  जनसांख्यिकी   as  of 2009 ,  और   the  island name .
The Big  टेन  Conference ,  formerly   पश्चिमी  Conference and  बिग  Nine Conference  ,  is  the  oldest Division I college athletic  सम्मेलन  in the United  राज्य   .
इसके  twelve  सदस्य  institutions ( which are primarily flagship  शोध   विश्वविद्यालयों  in  उनके  respective states , well-regarded  academically  , and  साथ  relatively large  छात्र  enrollment )  हैं   स्तिथ  primarily in the Midwest , stretching  इससे  Nebraska in  the  west to  penn  State in the east  .
The conference  competes  in the NCAA  's  Division I ; its  फ़ुटबॉल  teams compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision (  fbs   )  , formerly known as Division I-A , the highest level of NCAA competition in  कि  sport  .
सदस्य  schools of  the   बिग  Ten ( or  ,   in   दो  cases  ,  their parent  विश्वविद्यालयों  systems ) also  हैं  members  of  the Committee on Institutional  सहयोग  , a leading  शैक्षणिक  and research  consortium  .
Despite  the  conference 's  नाम  , the Big  टेन   दरअसल  consists  of  12  स्कूलों   ,  following the addition of The Pennsylvania State University in  1993   और  the University  of  Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011 .
in   2014   ,  the conference  होगा   विस्तार  to 14  सदस्यों   साथ  the additions of the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of  मेरीलैंड   ,  College  पार्क   और  Rutgers  ,  The State University of New  जर्सी  .
It  is   नहीं  to  be   उलझन   साथ  the Big  12  Conference , which has  तभी  ten  स्कूलों   और   represents  a different  प्रदेश  of  the  country .
Single  malt  Scotch is single malt whisky made in  स्कॉटलैंड  using a pot still  आसवन   प्रक्रम   at  a  सिंगल   डिस्टिलरी  , with  malted  barley  as  the  तभी  grain  संघटक   .
as  with any Scotch whisky  ,   a  single  malt  Scotch must be distilled  in  Scotland and  matured  in  ओक   casks  in  स्कॉटलैंड  for at  तनिक   तीन   सालो  (  सबसे   सिंगल   malts  are matured longer ) .
``  Malt '' indicates that the whisky  is  distilled from  a  `` malted  ''  grain  .
Several  प्रकार  of  दाने  can be malted  (   लिये  example  ,  barley , rye and  गेहूं   हैं  all grains which can be  malted   )  ; however , in the case  of  single  malt  Scotch , barley  is  always the  तभी   अनाज  used .
``  सिंगल   ''  indicates that all  the  malts  in  the  बोतल  come from a single distillery  .
Bottlings containing malt whisky from  अनेक   distilleries  are called  ``   blended  malt  ``  .
Until the Scotch  व्हिस्की  Regulations 2009  (   swr  2009 )  ,  the word ``  blended  ''  तभी  appeared  (  in the context  of  Scotch whisky  )  on bottles of whisky that contained a mixture  of  both barley and non-barley  अनाज   व्हिस्की   ,  but this is  no  longer the case .
अंतर्गत   the  terminology established by  the   swr  2009 , a `` blended malt Scotch  व्हिस्की  ''  is  a mixture of  सिंगल  malt  स्कॉच   whiskies  , not  a  mixture of malted barley  व्हिस्की  and non-barley  व्हिस्की  ; those are called `` blended  स्कॉच   व्हिस्की  ''  ,   बगैर  the word ``  malt  '' .
the   पद   ``  blended malt ''  replaced  `` vatted malt ''  प्रयुक्त  under the  prior  labelling  प्रथाओं  .
The age statement on a bottle of single malt Scotch is  the   क्रमांक  of  सालो   the   व्हिस्की  spent  maturing  in cask  .
As very few whiskies are  बोतलबंद  from a single  cask  the age  बयान  reflects the age of the  youngest  malt in the mix  .
a  texture  may   be  arranged  so   as  to , `` closely approach  the  single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres ,  लिये  example  ,  the beautiful 'northern lights  '  chord  ...  , in a very interesting distribution of pitches , produces  a  fused sound  समर्थित  by a suspended cymbal  फेंकें  `` (  एरिक्सन  (  1975  ) , p.166 & 168 ) .
In contrast  to   अधिक  traditional musical textures  ,   ध्वनि   द्रव्यमान   संयोजन  `` minimizes the importance  of   व्यक्तिगत  pitches in preference  लिये   बनावट  , timbre , and dynamics as primary shapers of gesture and  प्रभाव  . ''
Developed  इससे  the  modernist   टोन   क्लस्टर   और  spread to  orchestral  writing by the late  1950s  and 1960s  ,   sound-mass  `` obscures  the  boundary between sound  और  noise `` ( Edwards  2001  , pp . 326–27 ) .
Techniques  जिससे  may create or be  प्रयुक्त   साथ   ध्वनि  mass  शामिल  extended techniques  ऐसे  as muted brass or strings , flutter tonguing ,  चौड़ी   vibrato  , extreme ranges  ,  and glissandos .
Composers and works include Barbara Kolb  ,   pauline   oliveros  '  ध्वनि   पैटर्न  for  कोरस  (  1961  ) , Norma Beecroft 's From Dreams of Brass for chorus  (  1963–1964 )  ,  and Nancy  वैन   de  Vate  .
beecroft   ``  blurs  व्यक्तिगत  pitches in favor of a  सामूहिक   timbre  through the use  of   गायन  and  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल  clusters  ,  choral  वाक   ,  narrator  ,  and  a  wash of sounds from an  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  tape  .  ''
( ibid )
a  very  जल्दी  example is the opening of Jean-Féry  विद्रोही  's ballet  लेस  Elémens ( 1737–38 ) , where  अराजकता  is represented  by  a gradually cumulating orchestral  क्लस्टर  of all seven notes of  the  D minor  स्केल  (  henck  2004 , pp  .  52–54  )  .
A  बाद   उदाहरण  is  the  third  गति  of  रुथ  Crawford Seeger  's  String Quartet 1931 ( Nonesuch H-71280 ) while  अधिक  recently Phill Niblock  's  multiple  ड्रोन  based music serves as  an  example .
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with  debussy  and  edgard  Varèse often carefully scored individual instrumental parts  so  that they would fuse into  एक  ensemble timbre  or   ध्वनि  mass ( Erickson  1975  , pp  .  18 and 21  )  .
Other  उदाहरण  include European  ``  textural '' compositions of  the   fifties   और  sixties such as  krzysztof   penderecki  's Threnody  to  the Victims of Hiroshima (  1959  ) and György Ligeti 's  works  featuring  micropolyphony   in   works  like  atmosphères  ( 1961 ) and  उसके  Requiem  (  1963-65 ) .
Other  composers  with works using this technique include  henryk  Górecki , Karel Husa , Witold Lutosławski , Kazimierz Serocki , and Steven Stucky .
Sound mass techniques  भी  appear  in  the music of George Crumb  (   anon  .  n.d.  )  .
Students attending  a   लेक्चर  on linear  बीजगणित   at  the Helsinki  विश्वविद्यालयों   of  Technology
विद्यार्थियों  in rural  सूडान  , 2002
A student  is   a   learner   ,  or someone who attends an educational institution .
in  some nations  ,   the  English term (  or  its cognate  in  another  भाषा  )  is  reserved for those who attend  विश्वविद्यालयों  ,  जबकि  a schoolchild under the age of  अठारह   is  called a pupil in  अंग्रेज़ी   (  or  an   समतुल्य   in   अन्य  languages ) , although in  the   संयुक्त  States a  व्यक्ति  enrolled  in   ग्रेड   k–12  is often  पुकारा   a   छात्र   .
In  इसके  widest use , student is used  लिये  anyone who is  सीखना  .
Australia  is   a  continent  comprising   मेनलैंड  Australia  ,  Tasmania , New Guinea , Seram  ,  possibly Timor , and neighbouring islands .
The continent  is   sometimes   ज्ञात   in   तकनीकी  contexts by the  names  Sahul , Australinea or Meganesia  ,  to distinguish it from the Australian mainland .
it   is  the smallest  of  the  सात  traditional continents in the  अंग्रेज़ी  conception  .
New Zealand  is   नहीं   भाग  of the continent  of  Australia , but of the separate  ,  submerged continent of  zealandia   .
zealandia   और  Australia  हैं  both part of  the  wider regions  ज्ञात  as  australasia   और   महासागरीय  .
The continent  of   ऑस्ट्रेलिया   झूठ  on a continental shelf  overlain  by shallow seas which divide  it   into   अनेक  landmasses — the  अराफुरा   समुद्र  and Torres  जलसन्धि   between  mainland Australia and New Guinea , and Bass Strait between mainland Australia and  तस्मानिया  .
When  समुद्र  levels  यहूद  lower during the  pleistocene  ice age ,  सहित   the  last glacial  अधिकतम   परिचय   18,000   bc   ,  they  यहूद  connected by  शुष्क  land .
During  the  past ten thousand  सालो   ,  rising sea levels overflowed  the  lowlands  और   अलग   the   महाद्वीप  into today  's   low-lying  arid  to   semi-arid  mainland and the two mountainous islands of New Guinea and  तस्मानिया  .
Geologically  ,  a  महाद्वीप  extends to the edge of its  महाद्वीपीय   शेल्फ  ,  so  the  now-separate  islands are considered part  of  the continent .
Due  to  the  स्प्रेड  of  पशु   ,  fungi and plants across  the   सिंगल  Pleistocene landmass  the  separate lands have  a   सम्बन्धित   biota  .
Central  पार्क   is  nearly twice as  बिग  as the  संसार   's  second-smallest country  ,  Monaco .
Historically its reservoirs were important components  of  the city  's  water supply .
पर्यावरणीय  issues in  नई  York  नगर  are affected by  the  city 's  आकार  , density ,  abundant  public transportation infrastructure , and location  at   the  mouth of the Hudson  नदी  .
नई   यॉर्क  's population density has  पर्यावरणीय  pros and cons .
It facilitates the highest mass  पारगमन   उपयोग  in the United States , but also concentrates pollution .
Gasoline consumption  in  the city  is  at the rate  the  national average was  in  the 1920s  ,  and greenhouse  गैस   emissions  are a  भिन्न  of the  नेशनल   औसत   ,  at 7.1 metric tons per  व्यक्ति  per  साल  , below  सैन  Francisco , at 11.2 metric tons , and  the   नेशनल  average ,  at  24.5  मीट्रिक  tons  .
New York City accounts  लिये  only 1 %  of   संयुक्त   राज्य  greenhouse  गैस  emissions while housing 2.7  %   of  its population .
in  September 2012 , New York was named the # 1  ``   अमेरिका  's  dirtiest  City ,  ''  by a  travel+leisure   readership  survey that rated the environmental  विशेषता  of  35   prominent   शहरों  in the United States  .
Atlanta ( ,  stressed  ,  locally  )  is  the  पूंजी  of and the most  populous  city in the  u.S.  state of  जॉर्जिया  , with an  अनुमानित  2011 population of 432,427 .
अटलांटा  is the  सांस्कृतिक  and economic  बीच   of  the  अटलांटा  metropolitan area , home  to   5,457,831  people  और  the ninth largest  महानगर  area in  the  United States .
Atlanta is  the  county seat of Fulton  काउंटी   ,   और  a  छोटी  portion of the  नगर  extends eastward into DeKalb County .
अटलांटा  was established in 1837 at  the   चौराहे   of   दो   रेलरोड  lines , and the city rose from  the  ashes of the Civil  युद्ध   to  become a national center of commerce  .
In the  दशकों   following  the Civil Rights Movement , during which the city earned  a   प्रतिष्ठा  as `` too busy  to  hate  ''   लिये  the progressive views of its  नागरिकों  and  नेताओ  ,  अटलांटा  attained international prominence .
Atlanta is the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern  संयुक्त  States ,  via  highway ,  रेलरोड   ,  and air , with Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport being the  संसार   's  busiest airport since 1998 .
Atlanta  is  considered an `` alpha ( -  )  world city ,  ''  and , with  a  gross  घरेलू   उत्पाद   of  US $ 270 billion ,  atlanta’s   अर्थव्यवस्था  ranks 15th among world  शहरों   और   छठे  in the nation .
Although Atlanta’s  अर्थव्यवस्था   is   माना  diverse  ,   प्रबल  sectors include  लोजिस्टिक्स  , professional  और  business services  ,  media  परिचालन  ,  सरकारी   प्रशासन   ,  and higher education  .
topographically  ,  अटलांटा  is marked by rolling hills  और   घना  tree  कवरेज   .
Revitalization  of  Atlanta 's neighborhoods , initially spurred  by  the 1996 Olympics ,  रै   intensified  in  the  21st century , altering the city  's  demographics  ,  politics  ,   और  culture .
A  1947  propaganda  कॉमिक  book  प्रकाशित   by  the Catechetical Guild Educational Society raising the specter of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism  is   the   अभ्यास  of  बनाना  accusations of disloyalty , subversion  ,  or  देशद्रोह   बगैर  proper regard  लिये  evidence .
It also means `` the practice  of   बनाना   अन्यायपूर्ण  allegations  or  using  अन्यायपूर्ण   investigative  techniques  ,  especially  in  order to  सीमित   dissent  or political criticism . ''
the   पद   रै  its origins  in  the period in  the  United States  ज्ञात  as  the   दूसरी  Red Scare ,  स्थायी  roughly  इससे  1950 to 1956  और   characterized  by heightened fears of  कम्युनिस्ट  influence on American  संस्थानों  and  espionage  by Soviet agents .
originally  coined  to  criticize the  anti-communist  pursuits of Republican U.S . Senator Joseph McCarthy  of  Wisconsin  ,  `` McCarthyism  ''  soon took on a  broader  meaning , describing the  excesses   of  similar  प्रयत्न  .
The term  is  also now  प्रयुक्त  more generally  to  describe  लापरवाह  , unsubstantiated accusations , as well as demagogic attacks on  the   अक्षर   or   राष्ट्रभक्ति  of political  adversaries   .
During  the   मैकार्थी  era , thousands of  अमेरिकी  were accused of being Communists or communist  sympathizers   और  became  the  subject of aggressive investigations and questioning before government or private-industry  panels  , committees  और   एजेंसियों   .
The  प्राथमिक  targets of such suspicions  यहूद  government employees  ,  those in  the  entertainment  उद्योग   ,  educators and  संघ   कार्यकर्ताओं   .
suspicions   यहूद  often given  credence  despite  inconclusive  or  questionable   प्रमाण  , and the level of threat posed by  a  person 's real or supposed  वामपंथी   एसोसिएशन  or beliefs was often  greatly   अतिरंजित  .
Many people suffered loss of  नियुक्ति   and/or  destruction of their careers ; some even suffered  कारावास  .
Most of these punishments came  परिचय  through trial  verdicts   बाद  overturned ,  कानून   कि   होता  be declared unconstitutional ,  dismissals  for  कारण   बाद  declared  illegal  or actionable  ,  or  extra-legal   प्रक्रियाओं   कि  would  आइये  into general disrepute .
the  most  प्रसिद्ध  examples  of  McCarthyism include the  भाषणों  , investigations  ,  and  hearings   of   सीनेटर  McCarthy himself  ;   the  Hollywood blacklist  ,  associated with  hearings  conducted by the  हाउस   un-american  Activities  कमेटी  ( HUAC  )  ; and the various  anti-communist  activities of  the  Federal  ब्यूरो  of  छानबीन  ( FBI  )  under Director J. Edgar  हूवर  .
McCarthyism was a widespread  सोशल  and cultural phenomenon that affected all  स्तर   of  society  और  was the source of  a  great deal of debate and conflict in  the   संयुक्त  States .
नेपोलियन   is  a  fictional  character and the main antagonist in  जार्ज   ऑरवेल  's Animal Farm  .
जबकि  he is at first a  आम  farm pig , he gets  rid  of Snowball ,  another  pig  जिससे  shares the  शक्ति  .
He then takes advantage of the animals ' uprising against  उनके  masters  to   आखिरकार  become  the  tyrannical `` President of  एनिमल   फार्म   ,   ''  which he turns into a dictatorship .
वरुण   लोगो
The  वरुण   कनाडा  project is  the  world’s first regional-scale  भाटे  ocean  वेधशाला  that  plugs  directly into the  अंतरजाल  .
Since December  2009  , it has allowed  लोगों  to  ``   लहरे  '' the seafloor while ocean scientists run deep-water  प्रयोग  from  लैब्स  and universities around the  संसार  .
Along  साथ  its sister project , VENUS , NEPTUNE  offers  a unique approach to ocean  विज्ञान  .
Traditionally , ocean  वैज्ञानिकों  have relied on infrequent ship  क्रूज़  or space-based  satellites  to  carry   आउट  their research , while  the  NEPTUNE project uses a  remotely  operated  क्रॉलर   .
The  coronet  was a full-size car from Dodge  in   the  1950s  ,  initially the division 's highest trim line but , starting in 1955 , the  न्यूनतम  trim  लकीर  .
In the 1960s , the name was transferred to Dodge 's  mid-size  entry .
arm9   is   an   भुजा  architecture  32-bit  RISC CPU family  .
राष्ट्रमंडल   is  a  परंपरागत  English term for  a  political community  संस्थापित  for the common good  .
Historically , it has sometimes been  synonymous  with ``  गणतंत्र   ``   .
More  recently  it has been used for fraternal associations  of   कुछ   sovereign  nations  .
Most  notably  , the Commonwealth of Nations  ,   an  association primarily  of   पूर्व  members of the  अंग्रेजों  Empire , is  प्रायः  referred  to   as  simply  ``  the Commonwealth '' .
The September 11  हमले   (   भी  referred to as September 11 , September 11th  ,   or  9/11 )  यहूद   a  series of  चार  coordinated terrorist attacks launched by  the  Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda  upon  the United States  in   नई  York City  और  the Washington  ,  D.C.  क्षेत्रफल  on  सितंबर   11  , 2001 .
चार  passenger  airliners  were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks .
दो   of   those   planes  ,  अमरीकी  Airlines  उड़ान  11  और  United Airlines Flight 175  ,  were crashed into the North and South towers , respectively , of  the  World Trade Center complex in New  यॉर्क  City .
भीतर  two  घंटों  , both  मीनारें  collapsed with debris and  the   resulting  fires  causing  partial or  पूरा  collapse of all other buildings in  the  WTC  जटिल   ,  as  खूब   as  major  क्षति  to ten other large surrounding structures  .
a  third plane  ,   अमरीकी  Airlines Flight 77  ,  was crashed into the Pentagon  (  the headquarters of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Department  of  Defense )  ,  leading  to   a   आंशिक  collapse in its western side .
the   चौथी  plane ,  संयुक्त  Airlines Flight 93  ,  was targeted  at   the   संयुक्त  States Capitol in Washington , D.C.  ,  but crashed  into   a  field  निकट  Shanksville  ,   पेन्सिलवेनिया  , after its passengers tried to overcome  the  hijackers .
In  कुल  , almost 3,000  लोगों  died in  the  attacks  ,  including  the  227  नागरिकों  and  19   hijackers  aboard  the  four planes .
suspicion  quickly  गिरी  on al-Qaeda .
Although the group  's   नेता  ,  ओसामा   बिन  Laden  ,  initially denied any  भागीदारी  , in  2004  he claimed  जिम्मेदारी  for the attacks .
Al-Qaeda  और  bin Laden cited U.S.  support   of  Israel  ,  the presence  of  U.S. troops in  सऊदी  Arabia , and sanctions against Iraq as motives for  the   हमले  .
The United  राज्य   responded   to   the   हमले  by  शुभारंभ  the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose the Taliban  ,  which  था   harbored  al-Qaeda  .
अनेक  countries strengthened their  anti-terrorism  legislation and  विस्तारित  law enforcement  शक्तियां  .
having  evaded capture for  सालो  , bin Laden  थी   स्तिथ  and  मारे  by U.S. forces in May  2011   .
the   विनाश  of the Twin Towers and other properties caused serious damage  to  the economy  of  Lower  मैनहटन  and had a significant effect on global markets .
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site  थी  completed in May 2002 ,  और  the Pentagon was  repaired  within a  साल   .
Numerous memorials have  महरूम   constructed  ,  सहित  the National September  11   मेमोरियल  & Museum in New York , the Pentagon Memorial , and the Flight 93  नेशनल  Memorial in Pennsylvania  .
After  a  lengthy delay ,  the  One World  व्यापार  Center is expected  to  be completed  at   मैदान  Zero  in  New York  नगर   in  2013  .
Crater Lake  नेशनल  Park is a United States National  पार्क  located  in   दक्षिणी  Oregon .
Established in  1902  , Crater  झील  National Park  is  the fifth  oldest   नेशनल   पार्क  in  the  United States and the only one in the  राज्य   of  Oregon .
The park  encompasses  the  caldera   of  Crater Lake  ,   a   remnant   of   a  destroyed volcano ,  माउंट   mazama  , and the surrounding  पहाड़ियाँ  and  वनों   .
the   झील   is  deep at  इसके   deepest   पाइंट   ,  which makes it  the  deepest  झील  in the United States ,  the  second  deepest  in North  अमेरिका  and the  नवीं   deepest  in the  संसार   .
crater  Lake is often referred to as the seventh deepest lake in the world  ,  but this former listing excludes the approximately depth of subglacial  झील  Vostok  in  Antarctica  ,   जिससे   resides   अंतर्गत  nearly  of  ice ,  और   the   हाल   रपट  of a maximum depth for  झील  O'Higgins /San  मार्टिन   ,  located  on  the border  of  Chile and Argentina .
However , when comparing its average depth of to  the  average depth of other deep lakes , Crater Lake becomes the deepest in the Western Hemisphere  और  the  तीसरा  deepest  in  the  संसार   .
The impressive  औसत  depth of  इस  volcanic  झील  is  due  to  the  nearly symmetrical deep caldera formed  7,700   सालो  ago during  the  violent climactic eruptions and subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and  the  relatively moist climate that is typical  of   the  crest of the Cascade  दायरा  .
The caldera  रिम  ranges in elevation  इससे  .
the  United  राज्य  Geological Survey benchmarked elevation of the lake  सतह  itself is  .
This National  पार्क   encompasses  .
Crater  झील  has  no  streams flowing  into   or  out  of  it  .
All water that enters the lake  is  eventually lost from evaporation or subsurface seepage .
the   झील   's  water  commonly  has  a   striking  blue hue  ,  and the lake is re-filled entirely from direct  वर्षण  in the form of snow and rain .
The Supreme Court of the United States is the highest  अदालत  in the United States .
It has ultimate ( and largely  विवेकाधीन  ) appellate  क्षेत्राधिकार   over  all federal courts  और   over  state  अदालत   मामले   involving   मुद्दे  of federal  विधि  , and original  क्षेत्राधिकार   over   a  small  दायरा  of cases .
The Court , which meets in  the  United  राज्य  Supreme  अदालत  Building in Washington  ,   d.C.   ,  consists of a  मुख्य  justice and eight  संबद्ध  justices who are nominated by the  अध्यक्ष  and confirmed by the United States  सीनेट  .
Once  नियुक्त  ,  justices  have life tenure unless  वे  resign  ,  retire , or are  removed   बाद  impeachment .
conroe   is  the  सीट  of Montgomery  काउंटी  and  जलप्रपात  within the metropolitan area .
It is  स्तिथ   परिचय   उत्तर  of  ह्यूस्टन  .
as  of July 2011  ,  the city population was  58,973  , up from  36,811   in   2000  .
The Book of Mormon is a sacred  टेक्स्ट  of the  latter  Day Saint movement  ,  which  adherents  believe contains writings of ancient prophets who  जिया   on  the American  महाद्वीप  from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421 .
It  थी  first published in March  1830  by Joseph Smith  as  The Book  of  Mormon : An Account  लिखा  by the Hand  of   mormon  upon Plates  लिया  from the Plates  of   nephi  .
According to  स्मिथ  's account  ,  and also according to the  किताब  's  कथा  ,  the  Book  of   mormon   थी  originally  लिखा  in otherwise unknown characters referred to as ``  reformed  Egyptian ``  engraved  on golden  प्लेटों  .
Smith claimed  कि   the  last prophet to contribute to  the   किताब   ,  a  man  named  moroni  , buried  it  in a  हिल  in present-day  नई   यॉर्क  and then returned to earth  in   1827  as an angel ,  revealing  the  स्थान  of  the  book to  स्मिथ   और  instructing  उसे  to translate and disseminate it as  प्रमाण  of  the  restoration of Christ  's  true  गिरिजाघर  in the latter days  .
The  किताब  of Mormon  रै  a  क्रमांक  of original and  distinctive  doctrinal  चर्चाएँ  on subjects such  as   the  fall of  आदम   और  Eve  ,  the nature of  the  Atonement ,  eschatology  , redemption from physical and spiritual death  ,  and  the  organization  of  the latter-day church  .
The pivotal event of the book is an appearance of Jesus Christ to the Americas shortly after his  क़यामत  .
The Book  of  Mormon is  the  earliest of the unique writings of the Latter Day  संत  movement , the denominations of which  typically   लिहाज़  the text not only  as   scripture   लकिन   भी  as  a   ऐतिहासिक  record  of  God 's dealings with  the  ancient  निवासियों  of the  americas  .
The Book  of  Mormon is divided into smaller  किताबे  ,  titled  after the  individuals   नामित  as primary authors  और   ,  in  सबसे   संस्करण   ,  divided into  अध्याय   और  verses  .
it  is written in English  ,  very similar  to   the   जल्दी  Modern English linguistic  स्टाइल   of   the   किंग   जेम्स  Version of  the  Bible ,  और   रै  since been fully or partially translated into 108 languages .
an  enlisted rank ( also known as an  आयोजिक  grade or  आयोजिक   रेट  )  is   ,  in  सबसे  militaries  ,  any  रैंक  below that  of  a  commissioned  officer or  वारंट  officer .
the  term can also be inclusive of non-commissioned  अधिकारियों  .
In most  मामले  , enlisted service  कर्मियों  perform jobs  विशिष्ट   to  their  अपना  occupational specialty ,  as  opposed to  the  more generalized command responsibilities of  commissioned  officers .
`` What a Wonderful  संसार   ''  is a  सोंग   लिखा  by Bob  thiele  (  as   ``   जार्ज   डगलस  '' ) and George David  वेइस  .
it   थी  first recorded  by  Louis  आर्मस्ट्रांग   और   released   as  a single  in  1967  .
Thiele  और  Weiss  यहूद  both prominent  in   the   म्यूज़िक  world  (   thiele  as a  निर्माता   और   वेइस   as  a composer/performer ) .
Armstrong 's recording was  inducted  in the Grammy  हॉल  of Fame in 1999 .
The publishing for this song  is  controlled by  मेमोरी  Lane  म्यूज़िक  Group , Carlin Music Corp. ,  और   कीड़ा   म्यूज़िक   ,  Inc .
1908  पोस्टर   विज्ञापन  Gaumont 's  ध्वनि   films  .
the  Chronomégaphone , designed for large halls  ,  employed compressed air  to   amplify  the  अंकित  sound .
a  sound film  is   a   गति  picture with synchronized  ध्वनि   ,   or  sound  technologically  coupled  to  image , as opposed to  a   मूक  film .
The first known  पब्लिक   प्रदर्शनी  of projected sound films took place in  पेरिस   in  1900 , but  दशकों  would pass before sound motion  तस्वीरें   यहूद   बना  commercially  व्यावहारिक  .
Reliable synchronization  थी  difficult to  achieve  with the  जल्दी  sound-on-disc systems ,  और  amplification and recording  विशेषता  were also inadequate .
नवप्रवर्तनों  in sound-on-film led to  the  first commercial screening of short  गति  pictures  using  the technology ,  जिससे   took  place in 1923  .
The primary steps in  the  commercialization of sound cinema were taken  in  the mid- to  लेट  1920s .
At first , the  ध्वनि  films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking  तस्वीरें  '' , or `` talkies '' —were  exclusively  shorts ; the earliest  feature-length  movies  साथ  recorded  ध्वनि  included only music and effects  .
The first feature  फिल्मी  originally presented as  a  talkie was The Jazz Singer ,  released   in  October 1927  .
A  प्रमुख   hit  , it  थी  made with  vitaphone  , the leading brand  of  sound-on-disc  प्रौद्योगिकी   .
Sound-on-film ,  however   ,   होता   जल्द  become  the   मानक  for talking pictures .
By the  जल्दी  1930s  ,  the talkies  यहूद  a global phenomenon .
In the United  राज्य  , they  helped   सुरक्षित  Hollywood 's position  as  one of the  संसार   's  most  शक्तिशाली  cultural/commercial  प्रणालियों  ( see Cinema of  the   संयुक्त  States )  .
In Europe ( and  ,   to  a lesser degree , elsewhere ) the new development was treated with suspicion by many filmmakers  और  critics , who worried that a focus on dialogue would  subvert  the  अद्वितीय  aesthetic  virtues   of  soundless cinema .
In  जापानी  , where  the   लोकप्रिय   फिल्मी   परंपरा   एकीकृत  silent movie and live vocal  प्रदर्शन  , talking  तस्वीरें  were  slow   to  take  रूट  .
In India ,  ध्वनि  was  the   transformative  element that led to  the  rapid expansion of the nation 's film industry—the most  उत्पादक  such industry  in  the world since the early 1960s .
अफ़्रीकी  people are natives or inhabitants of Africa and people of  अफ़्रीकी  descent .
The Australian Recording Industry Association  म्यूज़िक   पुरस्कार  (  commonly  known as ARIA Music Awards or ARIA Awards ) is an annual  श्रेणी  of awards nights celebrating the Australian music  उद्योग  , put on by the Australian Recording Industry Association  (  ARIA ) .
The event has been held annually since 1987  और   encompasses  the general  genre-specific  and popular awards  (   ये   हैं  what is usually being  referred  to as `` the  aria  awards '' )  as  well as Fine  कला  Awards and  कारीगर  Awards (  आयोजित   separately  from 2004 )  ,  Lifetime  उपलब्धि  Awards and ARIA Hall  of  Fame – held separately from 2005 to 2010 but  लौटे  to the general  रस्म  in  2011  .
For 2010 ,  aria   introduced   पब्लिक  voted  पुरस्कार  for the first time .
Winning , or even being  मनोनीत  for ,  an   aria  award results in  a  lot of media attention  on  an artist ,  और  usually increases recording  बिक्री  several-fold – in  2005  ,  लिये  example , after  बेन   ली  won  तीन   पुरस्कार  ,  उसके  album Awake Is the New  नींद  jumped from  no  . 31  to  No . 5 in the ARIA Charts ,  इसके  highest position .
for-profit  education  (  also known as the education services industry  or  proprietary  शिक्षा  ) refers to educational institutions operated by private ,  लाभ  -seeking businesses .
There are  तीन  types  of  for-profit  स्कूलों  .
One  प्रकार  is known as  an   शैक्षणिक  management  संगठन  ( EMO  )  ,  और   ये  are  प्राथमिक   और  secondary educational institutions .
EMOs  कार्य   साथ   स्कूल  districts or charter schools , using public funds to finance operations .
The majority of  for-profit   स्कूलों  in the K–12 sector in America  फलन  as EMOs ,  और  have grown in  क्रमांक   in   the  mid-2000s .
the  other  प्रमुख  category of for-profit schools are  post-secondary   संस्थानों   जिससे  operate as businesses  ,   receiving  fees from each  छात्र  they enroll  .
A third type of for-profit schools  ,  which  is   कम   प्रचलित   in  the United States  ,   हैं  K–12  स्कूलों  which operate  as  businesses .
emos  function differently from charter schools created  in  order to carry out a  particular   शिक्षण  pedagogy  ;  most  चार्टर  schools are mission-oriented ,  जबकि  EMOs and other for-profit institutions are market-oriented .
While  समर्थक  argue  कि  the profit motive encourages  दक्षता  ,  इस   व्यवस्था  has  भी  drawn controversy and criticism  .
Kevin  कैरी   ,   निदेशक  of  the  education policy  कार्यक्रम  of the New  अमरीकी   न्यास  said in a 2010 column in  the   वृत्तान्त  of Higher Education that `` For-profits exist  in  large part  to  fix educational market  असफलताओं  left by  परंपरागत  institutions , and they profit by serving students that public and  निजी   nonprofit  institutions  too  often ignore . ''
He also noted that `` There 's no doubt  कि  the worst  for-profits  are  निर्मम  exploiting the commodified college  उपाधि   .
But  वे  did n't commodify it  in  the first place  .  ''
Amendment  xxii  in the National Archives
the  Twenty-second Amendment  of   the  United States Constitution  सेट  a term limit  लिये   चुनाव  to  the  office of President of  the   संयुक्त  States .
Congress  passed   the  amendment  on  March  21  ,  1947   .
It was ratified by the requisite  क्रमांक  of states on February 27 ,  1951  .
This is an episode  मार्गदर्शिका   लिये   the   दुश्मनी   श्रेणी  Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo .
This  सूची   encompasses   प्रत्येक   एपीसोड  , beginning  साथ  the  असली  Japanese-language title  as  they aired on TV Asahi  ,   followed   by  the title used in the English dubbed version  airing   in   the  United States on Cartoon  संजाल  .
A short  सारांश  will follow  ,  introducing  the   एपीसोड  and referring to  कुछ   of  the gags , but  नहीं  giving the complete summaries  to  the episodes .
सब  names and some of the references  होगा  be  the  ones used from the English-language version  to  avoid confusion  .
जापानी  names  may   be  presented  बाद  the dub name in  कोष्ठक  .
This article is about the  पब्लिक  park in New York  नगर  .
For  अन्य  uses ,  देखिए  Central Park ( disambiguation )  .
Central Park is a public park at  the  center of Manhattan in  नई   यॉर्क  City .
The  पार्क  initially opened  in  1857 , on of  city-owned  land ( it is 843 acres  आज  ) .
In 1858  ,   फ्रेडरिक  Law Olmsted and  calvert   vaux  won a  डिज़ाइन  competition to  improve   और  expand the park with a plan  वे  entitled  the   greensward  Plan  .
निर्माण   began   the   वही  year  ,  continued  दौरान  the American  सिविल  War , and  थी  completed  in   1873  .
Central Park is the most  visited  urban park in the United States .
Designated a  नेशनल  Historic  लैंडमार्क  in 1962  ,   the  park is currently  प्रबंधित  by  the  Central Park Conservancy under contract  साथ  the  नगर  government .
The Conservancy is a non-profit organization that  contributes  83.5 % of Central  पार्क  's  $  37.5 million annual budget , and  employs   80.7   %   of  the park 's  मेंटेनेंस  staff .
TracFone Wireless , Inc. is a  प्रीपेड  wireless service provider operating in the United  राज्य  including Puerto Rico  और   the  US Virgin  आइलैंड्स  and is  a   subsidiary  of Mexico 's largest  दूरसंचार  provider  ,  América Móvil .
as  a Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ) , TracFone Wireless  holds  multiple agreements with the US  largest   बेतार  telecommunications  कंपनियाँ  to utilize their networks  to  provide service  सहित  those of Verizon  ,  AT & T  ,  Sprint  ,  and  t-mobile  .
TracFone Wireless offers its  बेतार   उत्पाद  under  अनेक  brands which each also  प्रस्ताव  distinctive  सेवा   योजनाएँ   ,  the  ब्रांड्स  include  tracfone   ,   net10  Wireless , Straight  बात  , SafeLink Wireless ,  telcel  América  और   सरल   मोबाईल  .
A grab dredge
Dredging is an excavation  कार्यकलाप  or operation  प्रायः   carried  out at least partly  भाटे  , in shallow seas or fresh water  क्षेत्रों  with  the   purpose  of gathering  up  bottom sediments and disposing of them  at   a  different  स्थान  .
This technique  is  often used to keep  जलमार्गों  navigable  .
It  is  also used as a  रास्ता  to replenish sand  on  some public beaches , where sand  रै  been lost because of coastal erosion .
Dredging  is  also  प्रयुक्त  as a technique for fishing for  निश्चित   प्रजाति   of  edible  क्लेम  and  केकड़े  ,  देखिए  fishing  dredge  .
a  dredger ( or “dredge” as  is  the general usage in the  americas   )  is any device , machine ,  or  vessel  कि  is used to  excavate   और  remove material from the bottom  of   a  body of water  .
For example , a scoop attached to the end of  a   रस्सी  or pole by which  a  man  can   चित्रण  sediments  up  from  the   नीचे   of  a  तालाब  is  a  dredger .
विकासशील   इस   विचार  further ,  a  motorized crane equipped  साथ  a drag bucket or  clamshell  ( grabber )  कि  is used to  स्कूप   सामग्री  from the bottom of  a   देह  of  जल   is  also  a  dredger .
The  क्रेन  could be located on  the  bank , or perhaps mounted  on   a  barge .
If the crane is mounted  on   a   barge  , the entire  पोत  is referred to as a dredger .
The process of dredging creates spoils  (  excess material ) ,  जिससे  are carried  दूर   इससे  the  dredged  area  .
Dredging can produce  सामग्री   लिये  land reclamation or  अन्य   उद्देश्य  ( usually construction-related  )  , and  रै  also historically played a significant  भूमिका   in  gold  खनन  .
Dredging  can  create  disturbance  in aquatic  ecosystems  , often with adverse  impacts  .
Cleveland  ज्वालामुखी  in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed  इससे  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Space  स्टेशन  ,  may  2006 .
राख  plumes reached  a  height  of  19 km during the climactic eruption  at  Mount Pinatubo  ,  Philippines  in   1991  .
A volcano is an opening , or rupture , in a planet  's  surface  or  crust  ,   जिससे  allows hot  मैग्मा  , volcanic ash  और  gases to escape from the magma chamber  नीचे  the surface .
Volcanoes  हैं   generally   मिला  where  tectonic  plates are  diverging   or   converging  .
A mid-oceanic ridge , for  उदाहरण  the Mid-Atlantic Ridge , has examples of  ज्वालामुखी   caused  by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has  उदाहरण  of  ज्वालामुखी  caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together  .
By  कंट्रास्ट  , volcanoes  हैं  usually not created where  दो  tectonic plates slide past one  another   .
ज्वालामुखी   can  also form  जहाँ  there is  stretching  and thinning of the Earth 's crust in  the  interiors of plates , e.g. , in the East African Rift  ,  the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and  the   रिओ  Grande Rift  in  North America .
This type of  volcanism  falls under the umbrella of ``  थाली  hypothesis ''  volcanism   .
volcanism  away from plate boundaries has also been explained as mantle  plumes  .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example  हवाई   ,  are postulated to arise  इससे   upwelling  diapirs with magma from  the  core–mantle boundary ,  3,000  km deep in the  धरती  .
Erupting volcanoes  can   पोज़   अनेक   जोखिमों  ,  नहीं  only in  the   तात्कालिक  vicinity of  the  eruption .
volcanic  ash can be  a  threat  to  aircraft ,  in  particular those with jet engines where ash particles can be melted by  the  high operating  तापमान  .
Large  eruptions  can affect  तापमान  as ash  और  droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun  और   कूल  the  धरती  's lower  माहौल  or  क्षोभमण्डल  ; however , they also  अवशोषित   ऊष्मा  radiated  up  from the Earth ,  thereby  warming the stratosphere .
historically  , so-called volcanic  सर्दियों  have caused catastrophic  अकाल   .
Benedict  अर्नाल्ड   (  June 14  ,  1801 ) was a  सामान्य  during the American Revolutionary War who  originally   लड़ा  for the American Continental Army but  defected  to the  अंग्रेजों  Army .
While a general on  the  American side , he obtained  कमांड  of  the   फोर्ट   at   वेस्ट  Point ,  नई  York ,  और  planned to surrender it to the British forces .
After the  योजना  was  उजागर   in  September  1780   ,  he  थी  commissioned  into  the  अंग्रेजों   फौज  as a brigadier general .
Born in Connecticut , Arnold was  a  merchant  ऑपरेटिंग  ships  on   the  Atlantic Ocean  जब   the  war  broke  out in  1775   .
After  joining  the  growing  army  बाहर  Boston  ,  he distinguished himself through acts of intelligence and bravery .
His  क्रियाएँ   शामिल  the Capture  of  Fort Ticonderoga in  1775  ,  रक्षात्मक  and delaying tactics despite losing the Battle  of   valcour   द्वीप   on  Lake Champlain  in  1776 ,  the   बैटल   of  Ridgefield , Connecticut (  बाद  which  he   थी  promoted to major  सामान्य  ) , operations in relief of  the  Siege  of  Fort Stanwix  ,   और  key actions during  the  pivotal Battles of Saratoga in  1777  , in which he suffered leg  चोटों  that ended  उसके  combat  करियर  for several  सालो  .
despite  Arnold 's successes ,  he  was  passed  over  लिये   प्रमोशन  by the Continental Congress while other  अधिकारियों  claimed credit for  कुछ  of his  accomplishments  .
Adversaries  in  military and political circles brought  आरोप  of corruption or other malfeasance  ,   लकिन  most often he was acquitted in formal  पूछताछ  .
कॉंग्रेस  investigated his accounts and found he  थी  indebted  to  Congress  बाद   बिता  much  of  his own  धन   on  the war effort .
Frustrated and bitter  ,   अर्नाल्ड   decided  to change sides in 1779 , and  खोली  secret negotiations  साथ  the British  .
In July 1780  ,  he was  offered   ,  continued  to  pursue and was awarded  कमांड  of  वेस्ट  Point .
Arnold 's  योजना  to  आत्मसमर्पण   the  fort  to   the  British was exposed when  अमरीकी  forces captured  अंग्रेजों  Major John André carrying  papers  that revealed  the  plot  .
Upon learning of André  's  capture ,  अर्नाल्ड  fled down the  हडसन  River  to  the  अंग्रेजों   sloop-of-war  Vulture , narrowly avoiding capture  by  the  शक्तियां   of  George  वॉशिंगटन   ,  who had been alerted to the plot .
अर्नाल्ड  received  a  commission as  a  brigadier general in the British Army ,  an  annual pension of £360 ,  और   a   lump   योग   of   over   £6,000   .
He led British forces  on  raids in  वर्जिनिया   ,   और   विरूद्ध  New London and  groton  , Connecticut ,  पहले  the war  effectively   ended  with the American  विजय  at  yorktown   .
In  the  winter of 1782 , Arnold  स्थानांतरित   to  London  साथ  his  दूसरी  wife  ,  Margaret  ``  Peggy  ''   shippen  Arnold .
He was  खूब  received by King George III and the Tories but frowned upon  by   the  Whigs .
In 1787  ,  he returned to  the   व्यापारी   कारोबार  with his sons Richard  और   हेनरी  in Saint John  ,  New Brunswick .
he  returned to London to  settle   permanently  in 1791 , where he died ten years later  .
Because of the  रास्ता  he  बदला  sides , his name  जल्दी  became  a  in the  संयुक्त  States  लिये   देशद्रोह   or   विश्वासघात  .
His  conflicting  legacy is  recalled  in the ambiguous  प्रकृति   of  some of the memorials  कि   have  been placed  in  his  सम्मान  .
Curtis Montague Schilling (  born  November 14 , 1966 ) is a former American  प्रमुख  League Baseball right-handed  पिचर  and  वीडियो   खेल  developer .
He helped lead the Philadelphia Phillies to the World Series  in  and won World  श्रेणी  championships in  साथ  the Arizona Diamondbacks and in and with  the  Boston Red Sox .
schilling  retired with a career postseason record of 11–2 .
उसके   .846  postseason winning percentage is a major-league  रिकार्ड  among  pitchers   साथ  at  तनिक  10 decisions .
After retiring , he founded Green Monster Games which  थी   renamed   38   studios   .
the   कम्पनी  released Kingdoms of Amalur  :  Reckoning in February  2012   ,  but  बस  three months  बाद  , Schilling  रखी  off  उसके   संपूर्ण   स्टाफ  amid severe  वित्तीय   परेशानियों  that  resulted   in  the  कम्पनी   लापता   payroll  the previous week .
Star  युद्धों  is  an  American epic space opera franchise centered  on  a  फिल्मी  series created by  जार्ज   लुकास  .
the  film series has  शाखित   a  media franchise outside the film series called the Expanded Universe including books , television series  ,  computer and video  खेल  , and comic  किताबे  .
ये   पूरक  to the film trilogies  have   resulted  in significant development of  the  series ' fictional universe  .
These media kept the franchise active  in  the interim  between  the film  trilogies   .
the  franchise portrays a galaxy that  is   वर्णित  as far , far  दूर  in  the  distant  पास्ट   .
It commonly portrays  जेडी   as  a representation of good  ,   in   विरोध  with the Sith , their evil  बंटवारा   .
उनके  weapon of choice  ,   the   lightsaber  , is  commonly   पहचाना  in popular  संस्कृति   .
the  fictional universe also contains  अनेक  themes , especially  प्रभाव   of   दर्शनशास्त्र   और  religion  .
the  first film  in  the series  थी  originally released on May  25  , 1977 ,  अंतर्गत  the title Star Wars  ,  by 20th  सदी   फॉक्स  , and became a worldwide pop culture  घटना  , followed  by   दो  sequels , released at three-year  intervals  .
Sixteen years after the  रिलीज  of the trilogy 's final film ,  the  first in  a  new prequel trilogy  of   films   थी   released  .
the   तीन  prequel  films   यहूद  also released at three-year  intervals  ,  साथ  the final film  of  the  त्रयी  released on May 19 , 2005 .
In October 2012 , The Walt Disney  कम्पनी  acquired Lucasfilm for  $  4.05  अरब  and announced  कि  it would  उपज  three new films  ,  with  the   पहला  film  ,  Star Wars Episode VII , planned for  रिलीज  in  2015   .
20th Century Fox  स्टिल  retains  the   वितरण   अधिकारों   to   the  first two Star Wars trilogies , owning  स्थाई  rights for  the  original  फिल्मी  Episode IV :  a   नई   आशा   ,   जबकि  holding the rights to Episodes I–III  ,  V  और   vi  until May 2020 .
Reactions to  the  original trilogy  यहूद   ज़्यादातर  positive , with the last  फिल्मी  being  माना  the weakest , while the prequel trilogy received a more mixed  प्रतिक्रिया  , with  सबसे  of the  तारीफ़  being for the  फाइनल  movie  ,  according to most review aggregator  वेबसाइटों  .
सब  six of the main films in the series were also nominated for  or  won Academy Awards .
All of  the  main  films   have  been box office  सफलताओं  , with the  overall  box office  आय   उत्पन्न   by  the  स्टार  Wars films  (  including the theatrical Star Wars : The  क्लोन  Wars )  totalling   $  4.49  अरब  , making it the third-highest-grossing film  श्रेणी  .
The  कामयाबी  has also led to  अनेक  re-releases in  थिएटर  for  the  series .
Plateletpheresis  (  more accurately  पुकारा   thrombocytapheresis  or thrombapheresis , though these names are  rarely  used ) is  the   प्रक्रम  of collecting  thrombocytes   ,  more  commonly  called platelets , a component of blood involved in  रक्त  clotting .
The term specifically refers to  the  method  of  collecting  the  platelets , which  is  performed by a  यंत्र  used  in  blood donation  कि   separates  the platelets and  रिटर्न  other portions  of   the   रक्त   to   the  donor .
Platelet  transfusion   can  be a life-saving procedure in preventing  or  treating serious  जटिलताओं   इससे   bleeding  and hemorrhage in patients who have  विकार  manifesting as thrombocytopenia  (   कम  platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction .
इस  process  may  also  be  used therapeutically to treat  विकार   resulting  in extraordinarily  ऊँची   platelet  counts such  as   अनिवार्य  thrombocytosis .
In computer  नेटवर्किंग   ,  a port  is  an application-specific or  process-specific   तन्त्र  construct  सेवारत  as a  संचार  endpoint in  a  computer 's  मेजबान  operating system  .
A port  is  associated  साथ  an  ip  address of  the  host  ,  as  खूब   as  the type of protocol used  लिये   संचार   .
The purpose  of  ports is to uniquely identify different  अनुप्रयोग  or processes running on a single  कंप्यूटर  and thereby enable them to share  a  single  शारीरिक  connection to a packet-switched  संजाल   जैसे  the Internet .
The protocols that primarily use  पोर्ट  are  the  Transport Layer protocols , such  as  the Transmission Control Protocol  (  TCP ) and  the  User Datagram  प्रोटोकॉल  ( UDP )  of  the Internet Protocol  सुइट  .
a   बंदरगाहों  is  पहचाना  for  प्रत्येक   पता  and protocol  by  a 16-bit  क्रमांक  ,  commonly  known  as  the  बंदरगाहों   क्रमांक   .
the  port number , added to  a  computer 's IP  पता  ,  completes   the  destination address for a communications session .
That is , data packets are  routed  across  the   संजाल   to  a specific destination IP address , and then ,  upon  reaching the destination  कंप्यूटर   ,   हैं   further  routed  to  the specific process bound to the destination port  क्रमांक   .
Note that it is  the  combination  of  IP  पता  and port number together that must  be  globally unique .
Thus ,  अलग  IP  पता  or  प्रोटोकॉल   may   उपयोग  the same port number for communication ; e.g.  ,  on  a   दिए   मेजबान  or interface UDP and  टीसीपी   may  use the  वही   बंदरगाहों  number , or on a host  साथ  two interfaces  ,  both addresses may be associated with a  बंदरगाहों  having the same number  .
Of the thousands  of  enumerated  पोर्ट  ,  परिचय   250  well-known ports are  सुरक्षित  by convention to identify specific  सेवा  types on  a   मेजबान  .
in   the  client-server model  of   अनुप्रयोग  architecture , ports are used to provide a  multiplexing  service on each  server-side  port  क्रमांक  that network clients connect to  लिये  service initiation  ,  after which communication  can  be reestablished on other connection-specific port numbers  .
Area code 479 is the telephone  क्षेत्रफल   कोड  serving  तेरह  counties in  उत्तरपश्चिम  Arkansas ,  सहित  the cities  of  Fort Smith ,  fayetteville  , Springdale ,  रोजर्स  and Bentonville : the second , third , fourth  ,  eighth  और  tenth-largest cities  in  the state , respectively .
it  was created  in  2002 in a split from area code  501   .
क्षेत्रफल  code 479 serves Benton , Carroll ( split  साथ  area code 870 )  ,  Crawford , Franklin ,  जॉनसन  , Logan , Madison , Polk  ,  Pope  ,  Scott  ,  Sebastian  ,  Washington and  चिल्लाते  Counties in Arkansas .
Arraignment is a  औपचारिक  reading of a criminal charging  दस्तावेज़  in the presence of  the  defendant to  inform  the defendant of  the  charges  विरूद्ध  him or her  .
In response to arraignment  ,  the accused  is   अपेक्षित  to enter  a  plea .
Acceptable pleas  vary   among  jurisdictions  ,  but they generally include `` guilty '' ,  ``  not guilty ''  ,  and  the  peremptory pleas  (  or pleas  in  bar )  सेटिंग  out reasons why a trial can not proceed .
pleas   of   ``  nolo contendere  ``   (  no contest  )  and  the  ``  alford   दलील   ``   हैं   अनुमत  in some  हालातों   .
in   इंग्लैण्ड  , Wales , Northern Ireland and Australia , arraignment is the first of eleven stages in a criminal trial ,  और  involves the clerk of the court reading out the indictment .
The defendant is  पूछा  whether  he  or  वो  pleads guilty  or   नहीं   अपराधी  to each charge .
In  संघीय  courts  of  the United States ,  arraignment  takes place in two stages .
The first  is  called  the  initial arraignment and must  लो  place within 48 hours of an  व्यक्तिगत  's arrest , 72 hours  if   the  individual was arrested  on  the  वीकेंड  and not  समर्थ  to  go  before a judge until  सोमवार  .
During this arraignment the  प्रतिवादी  is  सूचित  of  the   स्थगित   विधिक  charges and  is   सूचित  of his or her right  to  retain  counsel  .
The presiding judge also decides at what amount , if any , to  नियत   जमानत   .
During the  दूसरी  arraignment , a post-indictment  arraignment  or  pia  , the defendant is allowed to enter  a  plea .
Geoffrey  चासर   (  ;  c.  1343 – 25 October  1400  ) , known as the Father of English literature , is widely considered  the  greatest English poet of  the  Middle Ages and was  the  first poet to  have  been buried in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey .
While he achieved  कीर्ति   दौरान  his lifetime  as  an author , philosopher ,  कीमियागर  and astronomer  ,  composing a scientific treatise on  the   astrolabe  for his ten year-old son Lewis ,  चासर   भी  maintained  an  active career in the civil service as  a  bureaucrat  ,  courtier  और   राजनयिक  .
among  his  अनेक   works   ,  which  शामिल  The Book of the Duchess ,  the  House of  कीर्ति   ,  the Legend of  शुभ   महिलाओं  and Troilus and Criseyde , he  is   बेहतरीन  known today  लिये   the  Canterbury Tales .
चासर  is  a  crucial figure in developing  the  legitimacy  of  the  देशी  , Middle English , at a time when the dominant  साहित्यिक   भाषाएं  in  इंग्लैण्ड   यहूद  French and Latin .
The Chicago Blizzard of  1979  was a major blizzard that affected  उत्तरी  Illinois and northwest Indiana ,  u.S.   on  January 13 –  जनवरी   14   ,  1979 .
of  हिम  fell  on  January 13 alone ,  सेटिंग  a new record for snow in  एक  calendar day  .
by  the end of January 14  ,  of snow had  गिरे  .
The cold weather and snowfall throughout the rest of  जनवरी  and  फ़रवरी  resulted  in  frozen tracks throughout the Chicago 'L ' system  .
Commuters crowded  onto   cta  buses  ,  quickly overwhelming capacity  ,   resulting   in   usual   बस  commutes  of  30-45 minutes taking  up   to  several  घंटों  .
to  avoid huge snowdrifts in  the  streets , the overcrowded buses  यहूद  obliged to  लो  numerous detours  ,  adding  अतिरिक्त  time  to  the  भ्रमण  .
deployment  of plows  थी  significantly delayed and when they finally appeared  वे  struggled to keep up  साथ   the  snowfall .
much   of   the  snow  remained   unremoved   throughout  the next 2 months  ,  causing  जारी  public  पारगमन   देरी  and  significant  problems with  कचरा  collection .
The  नगर  's inadequate  जवाब  to the  blizzard  was  blamed  primarily  on  mayor Michael Bilandic , who  था   assumed  the  पोस्ट   बाद  the  1976  death of  रिचर्ड  J. Daley .
समाचारपत्र  articles at the time blasted Bilandic ;  जेन  Byrne ,  bilandic  's main political rival in the  लोकतांत्रिक   प्राथमिक   (   जो  had previously worked  साथ  Bilandic in the  डाले  administration  और  been  fired  by  bilandic  when the  दो  could not get  साथ   )  ,  capitalized   on   इस  and  गई  on to defeat Bilandic  in   the  February 27 primary  .
the   12-hour   क्लॉक  is a  समय  convention in which the 24 hours  of  the day are  विभाजित  into two periods : a.m. ( from the  लैटिन  ante meridiem , meaning `` before  midday  ''  )  and p.m. ( post meridiem , `` after  midday  ''  )   .
Each  काल  consists of  12   घंटों   गिने  : 12 ( acting  as  zero ) ,  1   ,  2 , 3 ,  4  ,  5  , 6 , 7 ,  8  , 9  ,  10  ,  and  11  .
the  12-hour clock was  विकसित   over   समय  from the mid-second  मिलेनियम  BC to  the   16th   सदी  AD .
Health spending per capita  ,  in $ US PPP-adjusted , with  the  US and  कनाडा  compared amongst  अन्य   पहला  world  राष्ट्र  .
Comparison of the  स्वास्थ्य  care systems  in   कनाडा  and  the   संयुक्त  States are often  बना   by  government  ,   पब्लिक   स्वास्थ्य   और  public  नीति   विश्लेषकों  .
The two countries  था   समान  health care  प्रणालियों  before Canada reformed  इसके   प्रणाली  in  the  1960s and 1970s .
The  संयुक्त  States  खर्च  much more money on health care than Canada , on  दोनो  a  per-capita   आधार  and as a  प्रतिशत   of  GDP .
In 2006 , per-capita spending for health  परवाह  in  कनाडा   थी  US $ 3,678 ; in  the  U.S. , US  $  6,714 .
The U.S. spent  15.3   %  of GDP  on  health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
in   2006  , 70  %  of  स्वास्थ्य  care spending in Canada  थी  financed  by  government , versus 46 % in the United  राज्य  .
Total government spending per capita  in  the U.S. on health  परवाह  was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending ,  और  U.S. government expenditure on health care was just under 83 %  of  total  कनाडाई  spending ( public and private ) though these  आंकडे   do  n't take  into   खाता  population differences .
Studies have come  to  different conclusions about  the  result of  इस  disparity in  बिता  .
A 2007 review of  सब   अध्ययन  comparing health outcomes  in   कनाडा  and  the  US  in  a Canadian  peer-reviewed  medical  जर्नल   मिला   कि  `` health outcomes  may   be   श्रेष्ठ   in   मरीजों  cared for  in   कनाडा  versus the United States ,  लकिन   मतभेद  are not consistent  .   ''
Life  प्रत्याशा  is longer in Canada , and its infant mortality  रेट   is   निम्नतर  than that  of  the  u.S.  ,  लकिन   वहीँ  is debate about the underlying causes of  ये  differences .
One  commonly  cited comparison , the 2000 World Health  संगठन  's  दरजा  of `` overall health  सेवा   प्रदर्शन  '' , which  प्रयुक्त   a  `` composite measure of achievement  in  the level  of   स्वास्थ्य  , the distribution of health ,  the  level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution  ''  , ranked Canada 30th and the  us  37th  among   191  member nations .
इस   पढ़ाई  rated  the   us   ``  responsiveness '' ,  or  quality of service for  individuals  receiving treatment , as 1st ,  compared  with  7th   लिये   कनाडा  .
While the average life  प्रत्याशा  for  canadians   थी   80.34  years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US , simply  comparing   the   जीवन  expectancy of two groups with  अलग  racial makeup and different obesity rates  is  likely not an effective  रास्ता  of determining  जिससे   healthcare   प्रणाली  is superior .
The  जो  's  पढ़ाई  methods were criticized by some analyses .
Although  वहीँ  is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and  शिशु  mortality mark the  सबसे  reliable ways to  compare  nation-wide  स्वास्थ्य   परवाह   ,   assuming  the  जनसांख्यिकी  makeup is similar , a  हाल   रपट  by  the  Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data  और  notes  the  ``  मुश्किल  research issues ''  facing  international comparisons  .
Tarantulas  comprise  a group of often hairy  और   बहुत  large arachnids belonging to the  theraphosidae  family of spiders  ,  of which  लगभग  900  प्रजाति  have been identified .
This article only  describes  members  of  Theraphosidae  ,   हालांकि  some  अन्य  members  of  the  वही  suborder are commonly referred  to  as `` tarantulas  ''  .
Most species of tarantulas are not dangerous to humans  ,  and  कुछ  species have  become  popular in the  exotic  pet trade .
The ton is  a  unit of  माप  .
it   रै  a  long   इतिहास  and has acquired a number of meanings and  उपयोग  over  the   सालो   .
it   is  used principally as a  ईकाई  of weight , and  as  a  ईकाई  of volume .
It  can   भी   be   प्रयुक्त  as  a  measure  of   उर्जा  ,  लिये  truck classification , or  as  a colloquial term .
It  is  derived from the tun , the term  लागू  to a  बैरल  of the largest size .
This could  contain   a  volume  between  210  और  256  गैलन   (  800 to 1000  l  )  ,  which could weigh around 2,000 pounds (  900  kg )  और   occupy  some  of  space .
in   the  United  किंगडम   the  ton is defined as ( avoirdupois pounds ) .
इससे  1965 the UK embarked upon  a   कार्यक्रम  of  metrication  and gradually introduced metric  इकाई  ,  सहित  the tonne ( metric ton  )  , a  non-si   मीट्रिक  unit defined as  1000  kg .
The UK  weights  and  उपायों  Act 1985 explicitly excluded from  उपयोग  for  व्यापार  many units and terms ,  सहित  the ton  और  the term `` metric ton  ''  for `` tonne  ''
In the United States and formerly  कनाडा  a ton is defined to be  .
Where confusion  is  possible , the  2240   lb  ton  is  called `` long ton `` and  the  2000 lb  ton  ``  छोटी  ton `` ; the  टन   is  distinguished  by   इसके   स्पेलिंग  ,  लकिन  usually pronounced the  वही  as ton  ,  hence the  us  term  ``   मीट्रिक  ton  ''  .
In the UK  the  final  ``  e  ''   of  `` tonne '' can also  be  pronounced  (  /ˈtʌnɪ/ ) , or `` metric ton '' when  it  is necessary to make the  भेद   .
Where accuracy  is  required the correct term  जरूर  be  प्रयुक्त  , but for many  उद्देश्य   इस  is  नहीं  necessary : the  मीट्रिक  and  long   टन  differ by only 1.6 % , and the  छोटी  ton is  भीतर  11  %   of   दोनो  .
the   ton  is the heaviest unit of weight referred to  in  colloquial speech .
The term  ``  ton '' is also used to refer to a number  of  units of  आवाज़  ,  ranging  from  in   क्षमता  .
It  can  also be used  as  a unit of energy , expressed as an  समतुल्य  of coal burnt , TNT detonated  ,  or in refrigeration , ice melted .
In Britain  ,  ton is used in slang in several  contexts  to mean  ``  100 '' .
as   a  cost or a speed , a ton is  widely  understood to  be  £100 or 100 mph  .
The Stanley  कप  (  )  is the championship trophy awarded annually  to  the  नेशनल   हॉकी  League ( NHL ) playoff  विजेता  after the conclusion of the  स्टेनली   कप   फाइनल  .
Originally commissioned in 1892 as  the  Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup , the trophy is  नामित  for Lord Stanley of Preston  ,  then- Governor General of Canada , who awarded it  to  Canada 's top-ranking amateur  बर्फ  hockey club , which the entire Stanley family supported ,  साथ  the sons  और  daughters playing and  promoting   the   खेल  .
The first Cup was awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC .
In 1915 , the  दो  professional ice hockey  संगठन  , the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) and  the  Pacific  coast  Hockey  संघ  ( PCHA  )  , reached a  सज्जनों  's agreement in which their respective champions would  फेस  each other for the  स्टेनली   कप   .
बाद   a   श्रेणी  of league mergers and folds  ,  the Stanley ``  प्रस्तुतीकरण  Cup  ''   थी  established as the de facto championship trophy of the NHL  in   1926  and then the  de  jure NHL championship prize in 1947  .
There are actually  तीन  Stanley  cups  : the original bowl  of  the  ``   डोमिनियन  Hockey  चुनौती  Cup '' , the  सत्यापित  ``  प्रस्तुतीकरण  Cup ''  ,  and  the  ``  प्रतिरूप  Cup ''  at  the  हॉल  of Fame  .
the  NHL has maintained  प्रभावी  control over both  the   ट्रॉफी  itself  और  its associated trademarks .
Nevertheless ,  the  NHL does not actually  अपना  the trophy , but instead  उपयोग   it   by  agreement with the  दो  Trustees of the  कप  .
the  NHL has registered trademarks  संबद्ध   साथ  the name and likeness of the  स्टेनली   कप  , although  the  league 's  सही  to  outright  own trademarks associated with a trophy  it  does not  अपना   रै   महरूम  disputed  by  some  विधिक  experts .
Unlike the trophies awarded by the other three  प्रमुख  professional  खेल   लीग  of North America , a  नई  Stanley Cup is not made  प्रत्येक   साल   ;  winners keep it until a  नई  champion is crowned .
it   is  unusual among trophies ,  in  that it has  the  names of all of  the  winning players , coaches  ,   प्रबन्धन  , and club  स्टाफ  engraved on its chalice  .
Initially  ,   a   नई   बैंड  added each year caused  the   ट्रॉफी   to  grow in size , earning the  उपनाम  ``  stovepipe  Cup  ''   .
In 1958 the modern  one-piece  Cup was designed with  a  five-band barrel  जिससे  could contain  13   जीतना   टीमों   प्रति  band  .
To avoid the Stanley Cup  इससे   growing  , when the bottom  बैंड   is  full ,  the  oldest  बैंड  is  removed  and preserved in  the  Hockey  हॉल  of  कीर्ति  ,  और  a new blank band  added  to the  नीचे  .
It has  महरूम  referred  to  as  the   कप   ,  Lord Stanley 's Cup , The Holy Grail , or  facetiously  ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as Lord  स्टेनली  's Mug .
The Stanley Cup is  घिरी  by numerous  महापुरूष  and  परंपराओं  , the oldest of which  is  the celebratory drinking  of  champagne  आउट   of  the cup  by  the winning  टोली   .
the   असली  bowl was  बना   of   चांदी  and is 18.5 centimetres ( 7.28 inches )  in   ऊँचाई   और  29 centimetres (  11.42  inches  )  in diameter  .
The current  स्टेनली  Cup , topped  साथ  a copy  of  the original bowl , is  बना  of a  चांदी   और  nickel  मिश्रधातु   ;  it has a height  of  89.54 centimetres ( 35.25 inches )  और  weighs 15.5  गामा   (  34.5  lb  /  2  st 61⁄2 lb  )  .
चूंकि  the  1914–15  season  ,  the Cup  रै  been won  a   संयुक्त  94  टाइम्स  by 18 active NHL teams and  पाँच  defunct teams  .
prior  to that ,  the   चुनौती  cup was held by  नौ  different teams .
The Montreal Canadiens have won the  कप  a record 24  टाइम्स  and  हैं  currently the  पिछला  Canadian-based team in  the  NHL to win the cup after  जीतना  it in 1993 .
The Stanley  कप  was  नहीं  awarded  in   1919   क्युकी  of a  स्पेनी  flu epidemic , and in  2005  ,  as  a consequence of the NHL  lockout  .
the  Pineapple (  ananas   comosus  ) is a tropical plant with edible multiple fruit consisting of coalesced  जामुन  , and the  सबसे  economically significant plant  in   the   bromeliaceae  family .
Pineapples may be cultivated from a crown  कटिंग  of  the   फल   ,  possibly flowering  in  20–24 months and  fruiting   in  the following six months .
Pineapple  करता  not  ripen  significantly post-harvest  .
pineapples  are consumed  भैस  , cooked  ,  juiced , and preserved  ,  and are found in a wide array of cuisines .
In addition  to  consumption  ,   in  the Philippines the  अनानास  's leaves are used to produce the textile fiber piña - employed as a  घटक   of  wall paper and  furnishings   ,  amongst other uses .
in  computer science  ,  an  पूर्णांक  is  a  datum of  अभिन्न  data  प्रकार  , a data type which  represents  some finite  उपसमुच्चय  of the mathematical  integers  .
Integral data types may be of different sizes  और   may  or  may  not be allowed  to  contain  ऋणात्मक   मान  .
integers  are commonly represented in a  कंप्यूटर  as a group  of  binary digits  .
The  आकार  of the  समूहीकरण  varies so the set of integer sizes available varies between different  प्रकार   of  computers .
Computer hardware nearly always  provides   a  way to represent  a  processor register or memory  पता  as an  पूर्णांक  .
The Gordon  बांध  in Tasmania  is  a large hydro facility  ,  with  an  installed  क्षमता  of  .
hydroelectricity   is  the term  referring  to  विद्युत  generated by hydropower ; the production of  विद्युत  power through the use of the gravitational force  of  falling or  बहती  water .
It is  the  most widely used form  of  renewable energy  ,  accounting for 16 percent of global electricity generation  –  3,427 terawatt-hours of electricity production  in  2010  ,   और  is expected  to  increase  परिचय  3.1 % each year  लिये   the   अगला  25  सालो   .
Hydropower  is  produced in  150  countries , with the  asia-pacific  region generating 32 percent  of  global hydropower  in  2010 .
China  is   the  largest hydroelectricity producer , with 721 terawatt-hours  of  production  in  2010  ,  representing around  17  percent  of  domestic electricity use .
There are  अभी  three hydroelectricity  पौधे  larger than  10   gw  : the Three Gorges Dam in China , Itaipu  बांध  across the Brazil/Paraguay  किनारा  , and Guri Dam in Venezuela .
The  लागत  of  hydroelectricity  is relatively low  ,  making it  a  competitive  सोर्स  of renewable electricity .
The average cost of electricity from a hydro plant larger  than   10  megawatts is 3  to   5  U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour  .
Hydro is  भी  a flexible source of electricity since  पौधे  can be ramped  up   और  down very  जल्दी   to  adapt  to  changing energy demands  .
however  , damming interrupts  the  flow of rivers and can  नुक़सान  local ecosystems , and building  विशाल  dams and reservoirs often involves displacing people and  वन्यजीव  .
एकबार  a hydroelectric complex is constructed ,  the  project produces no direct  बर्बाद  ,  और   रै   a  considerably lower output  स्तर  of the greenhouse  गैस  carbon dioxide (  )  than fossil  ईंधन   संचालित   उर्जा  plants .
वाइन   लड़के  at  a   यूनानी  symposium
The  इतिहास  of  वाइन   spans   हज़ारों  of years and is closely intertwined  साथ  the history  of  agriculture  ,   भोजन  , civilization and humanity itself .
Archaeological evidence suggests that the earliest known wine production occurred in what is now  the   देश   of  Georgia around  7000  BCE , with  अन्य   notable   साइट  in Greater Iran dated  4500   bce   और  Armenia  4100  BCE ,  क्रमशः  .
the  world 's oldest known  वाइनरी  ( dated to 3000 BCE ) was  खोजा  in Areni-1 cave in a mountainous area  of  Armenia  .
url_http   .
Increasingly  साफ  archaeological  प्रमाण  indicates that  domestication   of   the  grapevine took place during the  जल्दी  Bronze  आयु  in the Near East  ,  Sumer and Egypt from  around  the third millennium BCE .
प्रमाण  of the earliest wine production in Balkans  रै  been  uncovered  at archaeological sites in  उत्तरी   यूनानियों  (  मकदूनिया   )  , dated to 4500  bc   .
ये   वही  sites also  contain  remnants of the  संसार  's earliest evidence  of  crushed grapes .
In  मिश्र   ,  wine became  a  part of recorded history , playing an important role  in   प्राचीन   ceremonial  life  .
traces  of wild  वाइन   डेटिंग  from the second and first  सहस्राब्दियों  BCE  have  also been found  in   चीन   .
Moroccan wine Kasher  लेबल   1930
The Jewish tradition  और  use  of  kosher wine is  डेटिंग   वापस  to biblical times .
The long history  of  the use and production of wine  throughout   प्राचीन  Israel is backed up by  पुरातत्त्व  evidence  .
भीतर  the  यहूदी  diaspora communities all around the globe ,  the  traditional and religious use  of   कोषेर  wine continued  to  this day .
वाइन  , linked  in  myth  to  Dionysus  /  Bacchus  ,  was common in ancient Greece and Rome , and many of today 's major wine-producing  regions  of Western Europe  यहूद  established with Phoenician and , later  ,   रोमन  plantations .
Winemaking  प्रौद्योगिकी   improved   considerably   दौरान   the   समय  of the Roman Empire :  अनेक  grape  किस्में  and cultivation techniques were known  ;   the  design  of  the wine press  उन्नत   ;  and  barrels  were developed for storing and  शिपिंग  wine .
Rashi , a  मध्यकालीन   फ्रेंच  rabbi and  पुकारा   the   ``   पिता  ''  of  all commentaries that followed  on  the  talmud   और   the  Tanakh  ,  earned his living as a  vintner  .
Following  the   मनाही  of Rome and its industrial-scale wine production  लिये  export , the Christian Church in medieval Europe also became a  कड़  supporter of  वाइन   ,  necessary for celebration of the Catholic  द्रव्यमान   .  Whereas  वाइन   थी   हराम  in medieval Islamic cultures , its  उपयोग  in Christian libation was widely  tolerated  .
Geber and other Muslim chemists pioneered  the  distillation of  वाइन  for Islamic  औषधीय  and  औद्योगिक  purposes such as perfume .
वाइन   उत्पादन  gradually increased  ,  with consumption  burgeoning  from  the   15th  century onwards .
Wine production survived the  विनाशकारी   phylloxera  louse of 1887 and eventually  स्प्रेड  to numerous  regions  throughout the world  .
Districts  of   वेस्ट  Bengal
The Indian state of  वेस्ट  Bengal borders  साथ  Nepal  ,  Bhutan , Bangladesh  और  the Indian  राज्य  of Bihar ,  झारखण्ड   ,  Odisha , Assam  और  Sikkim  .
the  Himalayas lies in  the  north  of   the  state  और  the Bay of Bengal is at the south .
in   between  them , the river Ganges flows eastwards  और  its  प्रमुख  distributary , the Hooghly  नदी   ,   बहती   दक्षिण  to  पहुँचें  the Bay of Bengal .
The Siliguri Corridor  ,   जिससे   connects  North-East India with rest of the India  ,  lies in the  उत्तर  Bengal  प्रदेश  of the state .
geographically   ,   वेस्ट  Bengal is divided  into  a  किस्में  of  regions—   दार्जिलिंग  Himalayan  हिल  region  ,  Terai and Doors region ,  उत्तर  Bengal plains , Rarh region ,  पश्चिमी  plateau and  ऊँची  lands , coastal plains ,  sunderbans  and the Ganges Delta .
In 1947 , when  इण्डिया   gained   स्वतंत्रता  , the  राज्य  of West Bengal was formed with  14   जिले  , as  प्रति  partition plan of the then  बंगाल  province  of   अंग्रेजों   इण्डिया   .
the  former princely state Koch Bihar joined  as  a district in  1950  , and  the   पूर्व  French enclave  chandannagore  joined as  भाग  of the  हुगली  district in 1954 .
The States Reorganisation Act  of  1956  led   to  addition of Purulia district  to   the   राज्य  and  to  enlargement  of  West Dinajpur district .
Later ,  larger  districts  ऐसे  as West  दिनाजपुर   ,  24  परगना  and Midnapore  यहूद   bifurcated  .
West Bengal  is  now  विभाजित  into nineteen districts under  तीन  divisions .
जिले   हैं  administered by District Magistrates  ,  and  विभाजन  are  administered  by Divisional Commissioners .
कोलकाता  , the  पूंजी  of  the   राज्य   ,  constitutes the Kolkata district  .
अन्य   जिले   हैं   further  divided into  प्रशासनिक  units  ऐसे  as subdivisions  और  blocks ,  administered  by  sdo  and  bdo  , respectively  .
the  Panchayati  राज   रै   a  three-tier  ढांचा  in the state  .
The atomic unit is called a Gram Panchayat , which is the  पंचायत   संगठन  for  a   संग्रहण  of villages .
the  block-level organizations are called  पंचायत  Samiti ,  और  the district-level  संगठन  are  नामित  Zilla Parishad .
The Caribbean ( or ; ;  ;  or  अधिक  commonly Antilles ) is a region that consists of  the  Caribbean Sea ,  इसके  islands  (  some  घिरी  by the  caribbean  Sea and  कुछ  bordering both the Caribbean  समुद्र  and the  उत्तर  Atlantic  समंदर  )  ,   और   the  surrounding  coasts  .
The  प्रदेश  is southeast of the  गल्फ  of Mexico and  the  North  अमरीकी  mainland  ,  east of Central America , and north of South America .
Situated largely on the Caribbean Plate , the  प्रदेश  comprises more than  700  islands ,  आइलेट  ,  reefs  , and cays .
( See the list  .  )
These  आइलैंड्स   generally  form island  arcs  that delineate the  पूर्वी  and northern  किनारे   of  the Caribbean  समुद्र  .
the  Caribbean islands , consisting of the Greater  antilles  on the  उत्तर   और  the Lesser Antilles  on  the south and east  (  including  the  Leeward Antilles  )  ,  हैं   भाग  of the somewhat  larger  West Indies grouping ,  जिससे  also includes the  lucayan  Archipelago  (   comprising  the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands ) north  of  the  वृहद  Antilles and Caribbean Sea .
in  a wider sense  ,  the  मेनलैंड   देशों  of Belize  और  Guyana – historically and culturally part of  the   अंग्रेजों  West  इंडीज  – may be  शामिल   .
Geopolitically , the Caribbean  आइलैंड्स  are usually regarded  as  a subregion  of  North  अमेरिका  and are organized  into  30  territories   सहित   sovereign   राज्य   ,  overseas departments , and dependencies .
From January 3 , 1958 , to  may  31  ,   1962  , there was a  short-lived   देश  called  the   संघ  of the  वेस्ट   इंडीज  composed  of  ten English-speaking Caribbean  territories  ,  सब  of which were  तब  UK dependencies .
The  वेस्ट   इंडीज  cricket team  continues   to  represent many of  those  nations .
This  is  a list of the  221  towns and 13 cities in the U.S.  राज्य   of  New  हैम्पशायर  .
For each  town/city   ,  the  तालिका  lists the  काउंटी  to  जिससे  it belongs  ,  its date of incorporation , its population according to the  2010   जनसांख्यिकी  , its  रूप  of government ,  और  its principal villages .
Cities are  indicated  in  boldface   .
शहरों  and towns are treated  identically  under state law .
शहरों  are just towns whose form of government was changed by  a   खास  act  of  the New  हैम्पशायर  legislature .
However  ,  towns currently are  समर्थ  to change their  रूप  of government  by  simple voter approval  of   a   नई  municipal  चार्टर   ,  with  अनेक  of  the  more  populous  towns having already  किया   so  .
the  main slave  रूट  in  मध्यकालीन  Africa .
This article discusses systems , history  ,  and effects of slavery within  अफ़्रीकी   .
देखिए  Arab slave trade  ,   अटलांटिक  slave trade  ,  Maafa , and  गुलामी  in  समकालीन   अफ़्रीकी   लिये  other discussions .
`` Slave transport in  अफ़्रीकी   ''  .
europeans  usually did not enter the  आंतरिक  regions .
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the continent  लिये   अनेक  centuries , and  continues  in the  वर्तमान  day  .
Systems  of  servitude and slavery were  आम  in many parts of  the   महाद्वीप  , as they were  in  much  of  the ancient world  .
In most African societies where  गुलामी  was prevalent , the enslaved people were  largely   treated   as  indentured  बन्दों  and  नहीं  treated as  chattel   स्लेव  .
When the Arab slave trade  और  Atlantic  स्लेव   व्यापार  began ,  अनेक  of the local slave  प्रणालियों  changed  और   began  supplying captives for  स्लेव   बाज़ार   बाहर  of  अफ़्रीकी  .
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different forms  और   कुछ   of   ये  do not clearly  अनुरूप  the definitions of slavery elsewhere  in  the  संसार  .
Debt slavery , enslavement of war captives , military slavery , and criminal slavery were all practiced in various  भाग  of Africa  .
Although  वहीँ  had been  कुछ  trans-Saharan trade  इससे  the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions  ,   गुलामी  was a  छोटी   भाग  of the  आर्थिक   जीवन   of  many  समाजों  in Africa until the introduction  of   transcontinental   स्लेव  trades (  अरब  and  अटलांटिक  ) .
Slave practices were again  रूपांतरित  with European colonization of  अफ़्रीकी   और  the formal abolition of slavery  in   the   जल्दी   1900s   .
Brett  lorenzo  Favre ( born  अक्तूबर  10  ,   1969   )  is  a   पूर्व  American football quarterback who spent the majority  of   उसके  career  साथ  the Green Bay  पैकर्स  of the  नेशनल  Football  लीग   (  NFL  )  .
He was a 20-year veteran of  the   एनएफएल   ,  having played quarterback  लिये  the  अटलांटा   falcons  ( 1991 )  ,  Green  खाड़ी  Packers (  1992   –  2007 ) ,  नई  York Jets (  2008  ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ) .
favre   is   the  only quarterback in NFL history to  throw   लिये  over  70,000   गज  , over 500 touchdowns , over 300 interceptions ,  over  6,000 completions , and  over  10,000 pass attempts  .
Favre started at the quarterback position for  the  University of Southern Mississippi  लिये   चार   सालो  before being selected in  the  second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by  अटलांटा  ( 33rd overall ) .
he   थी   traded  to Green Bay on February  10   ,  1992 , for the  19th  pick  in  the  1992  NFL Draft .
favre  became the Packers ' starting quarterback in  the  fourth game of the 1992  ऋतु  , stepping in for injured quarterback Don  majkowski  ,  और  started every game through the 2007 season .
He  थी   traded   to  the New York Jets  और  started  at  quarterback for  the  2008 season  पहले  signing  साथ  the Vikings on  अगस्त  18 , 2009  as   उनके   starting  quarterback .
He made  an  NFL record 297 consecutive  starts  (  321  including playoffs )  .
He is the only  खिलाड़ी  to win  the  AP Most Valuable Player three consecutive  टाइम्स  ( 1995–97 )  .
He  रै  led teams to eight division championships  (  1995 , 1996  ,  1997 ,  2002  , 2003 , 2004 , 2007  ,  2009 )  ,  five NFC Championship  खेल  ( 1995 , 1996  ,  1997 , 2007  ,   2009  ) , and two Super  कटोरी  appearances  (  Super  कटोरी   xxxi  ,  सुपर  Bowl XXXII  )  , winning  एक   (   सुपर  Bowl  xxxi   )  .
he   holds  many  एनएफएल   रिकॉर्ड   ,  including most career touchdown  गुजरता  ,  सबसे  career passing yards , most  करियर  pass completions , most career pass attempts , most  करियर   interceptions  thrown  ,  most consecutive  starts  by a player , most  लगातार  starts  by  a  क्वार्टरबैक  , most career victories as a  starting  quarterback , most  बर्खास्त  ,  और   सबसे   fumbles  .
He  is  also  referred  to by  उसके  nickname `` The  gunslinger   ''  .
salesforce.com   inc.  is a  वैश्विक   एंटरप्राइज़   तन्त्र   कम्पनी  headquartered in San Francisco , California .
हालांकि  best known for  इसके  customer  संबंध  management ( CRM ) product ,  salesforce   रै  also expanded into the  ``   सोशल  enterprise arena '' through acquisitions .
It is currently ranked  the  most innovative company in  अमेरिका   by  Forbes  पत्रिका  , as well  as  number 27  in   सौभाग्य  magazine 's 100 Best Companies to  कार्य  For in  2012  .
as   of   अप्रैल  2013  ,   the  company is ranked sixth in providing services in marketing and customer  सेवा  automation .
It  is  listed  on   the  New  यॉर्क  Stock  एक्सचेंज  and is a constituent of the S  &  P  500  index .
seahorse  is  the  title  दिए  to 54  प्रजाति  of marine  मछली  in  the   genus  Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus '' comes  इससे   the  Ancient Greek hippos  अर्थ   ``  horse  ''   और  kampos  अर्थ  `` sea monster '' .
Earth is  the   तीसरा   ग्रह  from the  सूर्य  , and the  densest  and fifth-largest  of   the  eight planets in  the  Solar System .
It is also  the  largest of the Solar System 's four terrestrial planets .
It is sometimes referred  to   as  the world or the Blue Planet .
Earth formed approximately  4.54  billion years ago , and life  appeared  on its surface within its first billion years .
Earth 's biosphere then significantly altered  the  atmospheric  और   अन्य   मौलिक   शारीरिक   शर्तें  , which enabled the proliferation of organisms  as  well as  the  formation  of  the ozone  परत  , which together  साथ  Earth 's  चुम्बकीय  field blocked harmful solar  विकिरण   ,   और  permitted  formerly  ocean-confined life  to  move  सकुशल  to land .
the  physical  गुण   of  the Earth  ,   as  well as its  geological  history and orbit ,  have  allowed  जीवन   to  persist  .
estimates  on how much longer the  ग्रह  will  be   समर्थ  to continue  to  support life  दायरा  from  ,  to as  long  as  .
धरती  's lithosphere is divided into several rigid segments , or  tectonic   प्लेटों  , that  migrate   आरपार  the  सतह  over  अवधि   of  many  लाखो   of  years .
About 71 %  of  the surface is covered  by  salt water oceans  ,  with  the  remainder consisting of continents and islands which together  have  many lakes and other sources of water that contribute  to   the   जलमंडल  .
धरती   's   डंडे  are mostly  covered  with  बर्फ  that is the solid  बर्फ  of the Antarctic ice sheet  और  the sea ice  कि  is  the  polar ice packs .
The  ग्रह   's  interior remains active , with  a  solid iron inner core , a liquid outer  कोर  that generates the  चुम्बकीय  field , and a  मोटा  layer of relatively solid mantle  .
Earth gravitationally interacts with  अन्य  objects  in  space ,  विशेषकर   the   सूर्य  and the Moon  .
During one orbit around  the  Sun , the Earth rotates about its own  अक्ष   366.26  times  ,  creating  365.26   सौर  days , or one sidereal  साल  .
the  Earth 's axis  of  rotation is  tilted  23.4° away from the  लम्बवत  of its orbital  प्लेन  ,  producing   मौसमी  variations  on  the planet 's surface with a  काल  of one  तीव्र   साल  (  365.24   सौर  days  )   .
The Moon is Earth 's  तभी  natural satellite .
It began orbiting  the  Earth about .
The Moon 's gravitational  बातचीत   साथ  Earth stimulates  समंदर  tides ,  stabilizes  the axial  झुकाव  , and gradually  slows  the planet  's   रोटेशन  .
The planet is home  to  millions  of  species of life , including humans .
Both the mineral resources of the planet  और   the   उत्पाद  of the biosphere contribute  संसाधन   कि  are used to support  a  global human  जनसांख्यिकी  .
ये  inhabitants are grouped  into  about  200  independent  sovereign  states , which interact through  कूटनीति  , travel , trade , and military action .
Human cultures have developed  अनेक  views of  the   ग्रह  , including its personification as a  ग्रहीय  deity  ,  its shape as flat  ,  its position  as   the  center  of  the  ब्रह्मांड  ,  और   in  the modern Gaia Principle ,  as  a single  ,  self-regulating organism in its  अपना  right .
The  जादूगर   इससे   the  Waite-Smith tarot  ,   जो   is  depicted  using   the  same  टूल्स   कि   आधुनिक  Wiccans  उपयोग   .
In  the  neopagan religion of Wicca  ,   a  range  of  magical tools  हैं  used  in  ritual practice .
Each of these  टूल्स  has different uses and associations  ,  and are used  primarily  to direct  जादुई  energies .
They are used at an altar ,  अंदर  a magic circle .
in  traditional Gardnerian  wicca  , the tools are  प्रायः   विभाजित   into  personal tools  ,  which are  लिये  use by  ,  and owned  by  ,  an  individual Wiccan , and coven  टूल्स   ,  used collectively by  the  coven .
इस  practice may derive partly  इससे   masonic   परंपराओं  ( such as the use of the  वर्गाकार   और  Compasses ) ,  इससे  which Wicca draws some material , and partly from  the   संस्कार  of  the  Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn .
The  latter   बना  much  उपयोग   of  material  इससे  medieval  grimoires  such as the  कुंजी  of Solomon , which has many illustrations  of   जादुई  tools and instructions for  उनके  preparation  .
Typical  eukaryotic  cell .
सेल्यूलर   श्वसन   is  the set  of  the  metabolic  reactions  और  processes  कि   लो  place in the  कोशिकाएं   of  organisms  to   बदलें  biochemical  उर्जा  from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , and then release waste  उत्पाद  .
The reactions involved in respiration  हैं  catabolic reactions ,  जिससे   ब्रेक  large molecules into  छोटी  ones ,  releasing   उर्जा  in the process as  कमजोर  so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced  by  stronger bonds in the  उत्पाद  .
श्वसन  is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy  to  fuel  सेल्यूलर  activity  .
सेल्यूलर  respiration is considered an exothermic redox reaction  .
The  overall  reaction  is  broken into many smaller ones when it occurs in  the  body ,  सबसे   of  which are redox reactions  themselves  .
Although technically  ,  cellular respiration is  a  combustion reaction ,  it  clearly does not resemble one  जब  it occurs in a  जीना   कोशिका  .
इस   अंतर  is because it occurs in many separate  कदम  .
While the overall  प्रतिक्रिया  is a  दहन  reaction , no single  प्रतिक्रिया   कि  comprises it is a  दहन  reaction  .
Nutrients  कि  are commonly used  by  animal  और   संयंत्र   कोशिकाएं   in  respiration include sugar  ,  amino acids and fatty  acids  , and a common oxidizing agent (  इलेक्ट्रॉन  acceptor ) is molecular oxygen  (   o2   )  .
The energy stored in  एटीपी  ( its third phosphate group is  weakly   बंधुआ   to  the  बाकी  of  the  molecule and is cheaply  टूटा  allowing  stronger  bonds to form , thereby  transferring  energy for use  by   the  cell  )   can  then be  प्रयुक्त  to drive processes requiring energy ,  सहित  biosynthesis  ,   locomotion  or transportation of  अणुओं  across  कोशिका  membranes  .
A  stored-pressure  fire extinguisher made by  amerex
A  अंग्रेजों  fire  extinguisher  with  id   चिह्न  , call point and fire  कार्रवाई  sign
A  आग   extinguisher   ,  flame extinguisher  ,  or simply an extinguisher , is  an  active fire protection device used to extinguish  or  control small fires , often in emergency situations  .
It is not intended for use  on  an out-of-control fire , such as  एक  which  रै  reached the  छत   ,   endangers  the user  (   i.e.  , no  एस्केप  route , smoke , explosion  जोखिम  , etc . ) ,  or  otherwise requires the expertise of a fire department  .
Typically  ,  a fire  extinguisher   consists  of a hand-held  बेलनाकार  pressure vessel containing an agent which can be  discharged   to  extinguish a fire .
In the United States  ,  fire extinguishers , in all buildings other  than   घरों   ,  are generally  जरूरी  to be serviced and inspected  by  a Fire Protection service company at  तनिक  annually .
Some jurisdictions  आवश्यकता  more frequent service  लिये  fire  extinguishers  .
the  servicer places a tag on  the  extinguisher  to  indicate the type of  सेवा  performed  (  annual inspection  ,  recharge , new fire  extinguisher  ) and when .
There are two main types of fire  extinguishers   :  stored pressure and cartridge-operated .
In stored  दबाव   इकाई  , the expellant  is  stored in the same  कक्ष  as  the  firefighting agent itself  .
Depending on the  एजेंट   प्रयुक्त   ,   अलग  propellants  हैं   प्रयुक्त  .
With dry chemical  extinguishers  , nitrogen is typically  प्रयुक्त   ;   जल  and foam  extinguishers   typically  use air .
Stored pressure fire extinguishers are the most common type  .
Cartridge-operated  extinguishers  contain  the   expellant   गैस   in   a  separate  कार्ट्रिज   कि  is punctured prior to discharge , exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent .
This type is  नहीं   as  common , used  primarily  in  क्षेत्रों  such as  औद्योगिक   सुविधाएं  , where  वे   प्राप्त  higher-than-average  उपयोग  .
They have  the  advantage  of  simple  और  prompt recharge  ,  allowing an operator to  निर्वहन  the extinguisher , recharge it ,  और  return  to   the   आग   in   a  reasonable amount of  समय  .
Unlike  भंडारित   दबाव   प्रकार  , these extinguishers  उपयोग  compressed carbon dioxide instead of  नाइट्रोजन  , although nitrogen  कारतूस   हैं  used on low  तापमान  (  -60  rated ) models  .
Cartridge operated extinguishers  हैं   उपलब्धियाँ  in dry chemical and  शुष्क   चूर्ण  types in the  u.S.  and in water , wetting agent , foam , dry chemical  (  classes ABC  और   b.c  .  )  , and dry powder ( class D ) types in the rest  of   the  world .
Fire  extinguishers  are further divided into handheld and cart-mounted ,  भी  called wheeled extinguishers .
Handheld extinguishers  तौल  from 0.5 to 14 kilograms (  1  to 30  पाउंड  )  ,   और  are hence ,  easily   पोर्टेबल   by  hand .
Cart-mounted units typically  तौल  23+ kilograms ( 50+ pounds )  .
These wheeled models  हैं  most commonly found at construction  साइट  , airport runways  ,   heliports  ,  as  well as docks  और   marinas  .
Native Americans in the United States  हैं   the   स्वदेशी  peoples  in  North America  भीतर   the  boundaries of  the  present-day  महाद्वीपीय  United  राज्य   ,   अलास्का  ,  और  the island  राज्य  of Hawaii .
They are  रचित  of numerous , distinct Native American tribes  और  ethnic groups ,  अनेक  of  जिससे  survive as intact  राजनैतिक   समुदायों   .
The terms used to  refer  to Native Americans  have  been controversial .
According to a 1995  u.S.  Census Census_Bureau Bureau Census_Bureau set  of  home interviews  ,  most  of  the respondents  साथ  an expressed  वरीयता  refer  to  themselves as American Indians  (  or  बस  Indians ) , and this  पद   रै  been adopted by major newspapers  और  some  अकादमिक   समूह  ; however , this term does not typically include  देशी  Hawaiians or certain Alaskan Natives ,  ऐसे   as  Aleut , Yup'ik  ,  or  इनुइट  peoples .
चूंकि  the  समाप्त  of the  15th   सदी  , the migration  of   europeans   to   the  Americas  ,  and their  importation   of  Africans as  स्लेव  ,  रै  led to  सदियां  of conflict  और   समायोजन   between   बूढ़ा  and New World  समाजों   .
europeans  created most of the early written historical  रिकार्ड   परिचय  Native  अमेरिकी   बाद   the  colonists '  आव्रजन  to the Americas  .
Many Native Americans lived  as  hunter-gatherer  समाजों  and told  उनके   histories   by  oral traditions  .
In many groups  ,   महिलाओं   carried  out  sophisticated   cultivation  of numerous varieties of  स्टेपल   फसलों  :  मक्का  , beans and  स्क्वैश   .
the  indigenous cultures were  काफी   अलग  from  those  of the agrarian  ,   proto-industrial  , mostly  ईसाई  immigrants from western Eurasia  .
Many Native cultures  यहूद   matrilineal  ;  the   लोगों  occupied lands for use of the entire community ,  लिये  hunting or  कृषि  .
europeans  at that  समय  had patriarchal cultures and had  विकसित   अवधारणाओं  of  व्यक्तिगत  property  अधिकारों   साथ  respect to land that were  अत्यधिक  different .
The  मतभेद   in  cultures between the established  देशी  Americans and immigrant Europeans ,  as   खूब   as  shifting alliances  among  different nations of each culture  through  the centuries  ,  caused extensive political  टेंशन   ,  ethnic  हिंसा   और   सोशल  disruption .
The Native  अमेरिकी  suffered  ऊँची   fatalities  from  the   सम्पर्क   साथ  infectious Eurasian  रोगों  ,  to   जिससे   वे  had no acquired immunity .
Epidemics after European contact caused the greatest loss of life for indigenous populations .
estimates  of the pre-Columbian population of what today  constitutes  the U.S. vary significantly , ranging from 1 million  to   18  million  .
After  the  colonies revolted  विरूद्ध  Great  ब्रिटेन   और  established the United States  of  America , President George Washington and Henry Knox conceived of  the  idea of  ``   civilizing  '' Native Americans in preparation for assimilation as U.S.  नागरिकों  .
Assimilation  (  whether voluntary  as   साथ   the  Choctaw , or  मजबूर   )   became   a   सतत  policy  through  American administrations  .
दौरान  the 19th century ,  the  ideology  of  manifest  नियति  became integral to  the  American nationalist movement .
विस्तार   of  European-American populations  to   the  west  बाद   the  American  क्रान्ति  resulted in  increasing  pressure  on  Native  अमरीकी   lands   ,  warfare between the  समूह  , and rising tensions .
In 1830 , the  u.S.  Congress passed the  भारतीय  Removal Act  ,   authorizing   the  government to relocate Native Americans from their  homelands   भीतर   स्थापित   राज्य   to  lands west  of  the Mississippi River ,  accommodating  European-American  विस्तार  .
The first European Americans  to  encounter the western  आंतरिक  tribes were  generally   फर   व्यापारियों   और  trappers .
वहीँ  were also Jesuit missionaries active in  the  Northern Tier  .
as  United  राज्य   विस्तार   पहुँचे  into the  अमरीकी   वेस्ट  , settler  और  miner  प्रवासियों   आए  into  increasing  conflict with  the  Great  जलाशय   ,  Great Plains  ,  and other  पश्चिमी   जनजातियों  .
ये  were  जटिल  nomadic cultures based on horse culture  और  seasonal bison hunting .
They  carried  out strong resistance to United States incursions in the  दशकों   बाद  the American Civil War  ,  in a series of Indian Wars , which were frequent up until the 1890s ,  लकिन  continued into the 20th  सदी  .
The transcontinental  रेलरोड  brought more non-Natives  into  tribal land in  the   वेस्ट  .
Over time  ,  the U.S.  मजबूर  a  श्रेणी  of treaties and land  cessions  by the  जनजातियों  ,  और   स्थापित   रिज़र्वेशन  for them in many western states  .
U.S. agents encouraged Native  अमेरिकी  to adopt European-style  खेती  and similar pursuits ,  लकिन  European-American agricultural technology of  the   समय  was inadequate for often dry reservation lands .
In 1924 , Native  अमेरिकी  who  यहूद  not already U.S.  नागरिकों  were granted citizenship by Congress .
समकालीन  Native Americans have a unique  संबंध  with the  संयुक्त  States because they may be members  of  nations  ,  tribes ,  or   bands  with sovereignty and  सन्धि  rights .
Central America ( )  is  the central  भौगोलिक  region  of   the   americas  .
It is the southernmost , isthmian portion of the North  अमरीकी   महाद्वीप   ,   जिससे  connects  साथ  South America on the southeast  .
When  माना   भाग  of the unified  महाद्वीपीय   मॉडल  , it is considered a subcontinent .
सेंट्रल  America  consists  of seven  देशों  : Belize ,  कोस्टा  Rica ,  el  Salvador  ,   ग्वाटेमाला  , Honduras , Nicaragua , and  पनामा  .
Central America is  भाग   of  the  mesoamerican  biodiversity hotspot ,  जिससे  extends  इससे  northern Guatemala through central  पनामा  .
It is  bordered  by Mexico to the north  ,  the  caribbean  Sea to the  ईस्ट  , the North Pacific Ocean  to  the west ,  और  Colombia  to  the south-east .
सेंट्रल  America  is  an area of , or almost 0.1  %  of  the   धरती  's  सतह  .
As of 2009 ,  इसके   जनसांख्यिकी  was estimated  at   41,739,000  .
it   रै   a  density of  77  people per  वर्गाकार  kilometer .
Scrubs is an  अमरीकी  medical  comedy-drama  television series  निर्मित  by Bill Lawrence that aired  इससे  October 2 , 2001 to March  17   ,  2010 on NBC and later ABC .
the  series follows the lives of employees at the fictional  पवित्र  Heart teaching  हॉस्पिटल   .
the  title is  a   खेल   on   सर्जिकल   scrubs  and a term for a  low-ranking  person  क्युकी  at the beginning of  the   श्रेणी   ,   सबसे  of  the  main characters were medical interns .
The series features fast-paced screenplay  ,   slapstick   ,  and  surreal  vignettes presented mostly  as  the daydreams  of  the central character ,  dr.  John `` J.D . ''
Dorian ,  जो  is played  by  Zach Braff .
Actors starring  alongside  Braff in  the  first  आठ  seasons included  सारा  Chalke  ,   डोनाल्ड  Faison , Neil  flynn  , Ken Jenkins , John C. McGinley and Judy Reyes .
The series  रै  also featured  अनेक  guest  दिखावे   by  film  अभिनेताओं  , such as  ब्रेंडन  Fraser  ,  Heather  ग्राहम  , and  कोलिन  Farrell .
in  the ninth season , many  नई  cast members  यहूद   introduced  and  the   दिखाएँ  setting moved from a hospital to a medical school .
Out of the  असली  cast , only Braff , Faison and McGinley  became   नियमित  cast members , while the others with the exception  of   रेयेस  , made guest  दिखावे   .
braff   appeared  in  छह  episodes of the  नवीं  season before departing  .
Kerry  bishé  , Eliza Coupe , Dave  फ्रेंको  and Michael Mosley became series  regulars   साथ   bishé  becoming  the   दिखाएँ  's new narrator .
scrubs  premiered on October 2 , 2001  on  NBC .
The series received a Peabody Award in 2006 .
During the seventh season ,  एनबीसी  announced that it would not  नवीनीकृत  the show  .
Shortly after the  सातवाँ  season finale , ABC announced it had  उठाई   up  the eighth season  of  the series , which began January 6  ,   2009  .
The ninth  ऋतु  premiered on  दिसम्बर   1  , 2009 .
On May  14  ,  2010  , ABC announced it had  officially  canceled  scrubs   .
An 1817 Boulton & Watt beam blowing engine  ,  used in Netherton  at  the ironworks  of  M W Grazebrook .
re-erected  on the  a38  ( M  )  in Birmingham  ,  UK
a  steam engine is a  ऊष्मा   इंजन   कि  performs mechanical work using  भाप  as its working fluid .
Using boiling  जल  to  उपज  mechanical  गति  goes back  परिचय  2,000  सालो  ,  लकिन  early  डिवाइस  were  नहीं  practical .
Since the late 1700s steam  इंजन  have  become  a major  सोर्स  of mechanical power .
the   पहला   अनुप्रयोग   यहूद   निकालना   जल  from mines .
In 1781 James  वाट   patented  a steam engine that  उत्पादित  continuous rotative motion .
These 10 hp engines enabled  a  wide range of manufacturing machinery to be  संचालित  .
The engines  could   be   sited   anywhere  that water and coal  or  wood fuel  could  be obtained  .
By 1883 , engines  कि  could provide 10,000 hp had become feasible .
Steam engines could also be applied to vehicles  ऐसे   as  traction engines and the  रेल   इंजनों  which  हैं  commonly just called steam engines outside America .
The  stationary   भाप  engine was a key component of  the  Industrial Revolution , allowing factories  to  locate where water  शक्ति  was unavailable  .
Today steam turbines generate about 90  %  of the electric power  in  the United States  using  a variety  of  heat sources .
भाप   इंजन  are  बाह्य   दहन   इंजन  , where  the  working fluid is separate from the combustion products .
Non-combustion  ऊष्मा   स्त्रोत  such  as  solar  शक्ति   ,   नाभिकीय   शक्ति  or geothermal energy may be used .
the   आदर्श  thermodynamic  साईकिल  used to analyze  इस  process is called  the  Rankine cycle  .
In the cycle , water is heated into steam in  a  boiler until it  पहुँच  a high pressure .
जब  expanded  through  pistons or  turbines  , mechanical work is  किया  .
the  reduced-pressure  भाप  is  तब  condensed and pumped  वापस  into the boiler .
In general  उपयोग  , the term steam engine can refer  to   either  the integrated  भाप  plants  (  including boilers etc . )  ऐसे  as railway steam locomotives  और  portable engines  ,  or may  refer   to  the piston or turbine machinery  अलोन   ,   as   in  the  बीम  engine  और   stationary  steam engine .
specialized  devices such as  भाप  hammers and  भाप   pile   ड्राइवर   हैं   निर्भर  on steam supplied  इससे   a  separate boiler  .
A  मिल  engine from Stott Park Bobbin Mill  ,  Cumbria  ,  England
A steam locomotive  in  Germany .This class  of  engine was  निर्मित  in 1942 – 1950 and  संचालित  commercially  जबतक  1988 .
``  Move Bitch ''  (  edited version titled ``  मूव  B***h  ''  or  बस  `` Move '' ) is  the  third  आधिकारिक  single  इससे  rapper Ludacris  '  album Word of Mouf .
The single features  mystikal   और  I-20 .
The single reached #  10  on the Billboard Hot 100  बनाना  it Ludacris 's first top ten hit on  the  chart , it also reached # 3 on Hot  रैप  Tracks and # 3 on Hot R & B/Hip-Hop  singles   &  Tracks  .
Puerto Rican reggaeton  duo  Maicol & Manuel  sampled  the song on `` Hoy Me Levanté  ''  on  उनके  2002  रिलीज  Yakaleo .
the  song  is   भी  featured in  एपीसोड  2 ,  श्रेणी   एक  of British teen comedy/drama  खालें  .
the  song  थी  also used  by  World Wrestling Entertainment  superstar  Montel Vontavious Porter  दौरान  his  छोटी   कार्यावधि  in Ring of  सम्मान  .
It  थी  also used for  अप्रैल  Hunter in various Independent circuits  .
It was featured  in  the  फिल्म  ATL starring T.I .  ,  and ' Hancock , ' although in the latter  ,  the clean  संस्करण   थी  used .
A snippet  of  the song  is  played during  ट्रैफ़िक   रिपोर्ट्स   on  many radio stations ,  प्रायः  carrying  an   urban/hip-hop   स्वरूप   .
Retired  एनबीए   स्टार  and now  ईएसपीएन  analyst  jalen  Rose is featured in  the  music video .
The song has  महरूम  covered  by   चट्टान   बैंड   प्रारंभ   ट्रबल  ,  on   उनके  album Every Solution Has Its Problem  .
It was featured on British  sitcom   the  Inbetweeners when the characters Jay and  neil  took Will on a 'pussy patrol ' in Jay  's  red  निसान  Micra  .
It was sampled by  लड़की   बात  on the first track  of  his album All Day  ,  `` Oh No '' .
Elizabeth  ii  ( Elizabeth  एलेक्जेंड्रा  Mary  ;  born 21 April  1926  ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states , known as  the  Commonwealth  realms  ,  और  their territories and dependencies  ,   और  head  of  the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
वो   is  Supreme Governor of the Church  of  England and , in some  of  her realms , carries the title of Defender of the Faith  as  part of  उसके   पूरा   शीर्षक  .
On  उसके  accession on 6  फ़रवरी   1952   ,  Elizabeth  became  Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant  of  seven independent Commonwealth countries :  the  United Kingdom , Canada , Australia ,  नई  Zealand , South  अफ़्रीकी  ,  पाकिस्तानी  and  ceylon  .
इससे  1956 to 1992 , the  क्रमांक  of her realms  varied   as  territories  gained   स्वतंत्रता  and some  realms  became republics  .
At present , in addition  to  the  पहला  four  aforementioned  countries ,  एलिज़ाबेथ  is  महारानी  of Jamaica , Barbados , the Bahamas ,  हरा  , Papua  नई  Guinea ,  the  Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint  लूसिया  ,  संत   विंसेंट   और  the Grenadines  ,   बेलीज़  , Antigua and Barbuda  और  Saint Kitts and  नेविस  .
उसके  reign of years is currently the second  longest  for a British monarch ;  तभी  Queen Victoria has  reigned  longer  at   over  63 years .
Elizabeth was  born  in  लंदन  and educated  privately  at home .
Her  पिता  acceded to  the  throne as George VI  in  1936 on  the   abdication   of   उसके  brother Edward VIII , from which time she was  the  heir presumptive  .
वो  began  to   undertake  public duties during the Second World War  ,  in  जिससे  she served in the  auxiliary  Territorial  सेवा  .
In 1947 , she married Prince  फिलिप  , Duke of Edinburgh  ,  with whom  वो  has four children :  चार्ल्स  ,  ऐनी   ,   एंड्रयू  , and  एडवर्ड  .
Her coronation service took place  in  1953 and  थी   the  first to be televised .
The Queen 's many  ऐतिहासिक  visits and meetings  शामिल  a state visit to the Republic of Ireland  और   reciprocal   विज़िट   to  and from  the   पोप  .
the  Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms , such  as   devolution   in  the United Kingdom and  the  patriation  of  the Canadian  संविधान  .
Times of personal  significance  have included the births and marriages  of  her  children  , the  births   of   उसके  grandchildren  ,   the  investiture  of  the Prince of Wales , and the celebration  of  milestones such as her Silver ,  सुनहरी  , and Diamond Jubilees in 1977  ,  2002 , and 2012  ,   क्रमशः  .
Major events in the  महारानी  's reign have included the Troubles in Northern Ireland , the Falklands  युद्ध  , wars with Iraq  और  the  युद्ध  in Afghanistan .
वहीँ  have  महरूम  times of personal  विषाद  for  उसके  which include the death of her  पिता   at   56   ,  the assassination of Prince  फिलिप  's uncle ,  रब   माउंटबेटन  , the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 (  a  year deemed her annus horribilis )  ,  the  मौत   in  1997 of her  पूर्व  daughter-in-law , Diana , Princess  of  Wales ,  और   the  deaths of her mother and  सिस्टर  in  2002   .
The  महारानी  has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the  royal  family and republican sentiments ,  लकिन   support  for the monarchy and her personal  लोकप्रियता   remain   ऊँची   .
Christianity  is  the largest religion listed by Australians  in  the  नेशनल  census .
in  the 2011  जनसांख्यिकी  , 61.1 %  of  Australians were listed  as  Christian  .
Australia  रै   no  official  राज्य  religion and the Australian  संविधान   protects   स्वतंत्रता  of religion .
The  उपस्थिति  of  christianity   in  Australia began with the arrival of the First Fleet of  अंग्रेजों  convicts in 1788 .
the  religion grew to account for 96.1  %  of the national population  at  the  समय  of the Federation of Australia in  1901   .
The  anglican   गिरिजाघर  of Australia ( formerly  ज्ञात   as  the Church of England in Australia  )   remained  the largest denomination until  1986  , when  it   थी  surpassed by the Roman Catholic  गिरिजाघर  in Australia .
Post-war multiculturalism  और   a  decline in religious observance among some  भाग  of the population  have   diversified  the demographics  of  religion  in  Australia  .
Of the roughly  61   %  identifying  as   ईसाई  in 2011  ,  the largest  denominations  were  either   रोमन  Catholic (  25  % ) or  anglican  ( 17 % ) , with  the   तीसरा  largest  denomination  being the  5  % affiliated  साथ   the  Uniting Church in Australia .
Post-war immigration  रै  grown the  संख्याएँ  belonging to churches like the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   और   वहीँ   हैं   विशाल   और  growing Pentecostal  समूह  , such as Sydney 's  hillsong  Church  .
The festivals of  ईस्टर  and  क्रिसमस  are public holidays in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
around   a  quarter of  विद्यार्थी  attend church schools and Christian  संगठनों   हैं   अग्रणी   non-government  providers of  स्वास्थ्य   और  welfare services through organisations like Catholic Health  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   ,  Anglicare  ,   unitingcare   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  ,  the  Salvation  फौज  and St Vincent de  पॉल  Society  .
Historically significant Australian Christians  have  included Rev  dr  John Dunmore Lang , Saint Mary  mackillop  ,  कैथरीन  Helen  spence  , Pastor David Unaipon , the Reverend John Flynn and  पादरी  Sir Doug Nicholls .
High profile contemporary Australian Christians  शामिल  : Tim Costello  बैपटिस्ट  minister and  वर्तमान   सीईओ  of World Vision  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , Frank  ब्रेनन  , Jesuit human rights  वकील  ,  कार्डिनल  George Pell , Catholic  archbishop   of  Sydney ,  फिलिप   aspinall  the current Anglican Primate and Archbishop  of   ब्रिसबेन  , Kevin Rudd  ,   पूर्व  Labor Prime Minister  ,   और  Tony Abbott , leader for  the   संघीय  Opposition Liberal Party .
Charter creating Collegiate School , which became Yale College  ,   अक्तूबर  9 , 1701
Yale University is a  निजी   आइवी  League research university  स्तिथ   in   नई  Haven ,  कनेक्टिकट  .
संस्थापित  in 1701 in the Colony of Connecticut , the  विश्वविद्यालयों  is the  third-oldest  institution  of   उच्चतर   शिक्षा  in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
Originally chartered as the `` Collegiate  स्कूल  '' , the institution traces its roots to 17th-century  clergymen   जो  sought to establish a college to train clergy and political leaders  लिये   the  colony  .
In 1718 , the  कॉलेज  was  renamed  ``  yale  College  ''   to  honor a gift from  elihu  Yale  ,  a  राज्यपाल  of the British  ईस्ट   इण्डिया   कम्पनी  .
in  1861 , the Graduate School  of   कला   और  Sciences became  the  first U.S. institution to  पुरस्कार  the PhD  .  Yale  became  a  founding  member of the Association of American  विश्वविद्यालयों  in 1900 .
Yale College was  रूपांतरित  , beginning in the  1930s  , through the establishment of residential  कॉलेजों  : 12  अभी  exist  और  two more  हैं  planned .
Yale employs over 1,100  संकाय  to teach  और  advise about  5,300  undergraduate and 6,100  ग्रैजुएट  and professional students .
Almost all  tenured  professors teach undergraduate courses  ,  more than 2,000  of   जिससे  are offered annually  .
the  University  's  assets  शामिल  an  endowment  valued at $ 19.4 billion ,  the  second-largest of  कोई  academic institution  in  the  संसार   .
Yale 's system of  अधिक  than two dozen libraries holds 12.5  लाख  volumes .
49 Nobel Laureates have been  संबद्ध   साथ  the  विश्वविद्यालयों  as students  ,   संकाय   ,  and  स्टाफ   .
Yale has produced many notable alumni , including  पाँच  U.S.  राष्ट्रपतियों   ,  19 U.S. Supreme  अदालत  Justices ,  और  several foreign heads  of  state  .
At the graduate  स्तर   ,  Yale Law School , Yale School of Art  ,   और   yale  School of  नाटक  are  consistently  ranked the  शीर्ष  programs  in  their field .
Yale Law  स्कूल   is   the  most  चयनात्मक  law school in the United States  .
yale  students  compete   intercollegiately   as  the  yale  Bulldogs in  the  NCAA Division I  आइवी  League .
the  oldest intercollegiate athletic  इवेंट  in the  संयुक्त  States  is  the  yale-harvard   regatta  .
Artemisia tridentata  (  `` big sagebrush  ''  or ``  sagebrush  '' ) is an  खुशबूदार  shrub from the family  asteraceae   ,   जिससे   grows  in arid and  semi-arid  conditions , throughout  a  range of cold desert ,  स्तान  , and mountain habitats in  the  Intermountain  वेस्ट  of North  अमेरिका  .
The vernacular  नाम  ``  sagebrush  '' is also used for several related  सदस्यों  of the genus Artemisia , such as California Sagebrush  (  Artemisia californica )  .
Big Sagebrush and other Artemisia  प्रजाति  are the  प्रबल  plants across large portions  of  the Great  जलाशय   ,  covering some 422,000 square miles in 11 western U.S.  &  Canadian  राज्य  .
it   is  the state flower of Nevada .
Sagebrush provides food  और  habitat  लिये  a  किस्में  of species  ,   ऐसे  as sage grouse , pronghorn  antelope  , gray vireo , pygmy rabbit , and  खच्चर  deer .
Big  sagebrush  was used as an  हर्बल  medicine by Native Americans throughout the Intermountain West  of  North America—especially for preventing infection in wounds ,  stopping  internal bleeding  ,  and treating  headaches   और  colds .
Chemically , the  क्रियाशील  medicinal constituents  शामिल  camphor  ,   terpenoids   ,  and tannins .
अनेक  major threats exist  to  sage brush ecosystems , including human settlements  ,  conversion to agricultural land  ,  livestock grazing , invasive plant species , wildfires , and  जलवायु  change  .
याहू   !  Mail  is  a  फ़्री  email  सेवा  offered by  the  American search engine company  याहू  !
It was  शुभारम्भ  in 1997 , and ,  according  to comScore ,  याहू  !  मेल  is the third-largest  web-based  email service with 281 million users as of December  2012  .
Currently , Yahoo ! offers three  संस्करण   of   याहू  ! Mail  .
The traditional `` Yahoo ! Mail  क्लासिक  '' continues the  उपलब्धता  of the original interface  introduced  in 1997 .
A version introduced in 2005 included a  नई  Ajax  इंटरफ़ेस  , drag-and-drop  सुविधाएँ  ,  improved   ढूंढें  functionality  ,   कुंजीपटल   शॉर्टकट  , address  auto-complete  , tabs , and  अन्य   अद्यतनीकृत  features .
In October 2010 , Yahoo ! released a beta version of  याहू  ! Mail ,  जिससे  included improvements to  the   डिज़ाइन  , performance , search  कार्यक्षमता  , and Facebook  संयोजन  .
in   may  2011  ,   बीटा  testing for the  नई  version stopped , and it  became  the default  इंटरफ़ेस  for Yahoo  !   मेल  .
In  जल्दी  2008 , Yahoo  !  began offering unlimited mail storage to  इसके  users in response to heated  प्रतियोगिता   in  the free  web-mail   मार्केट  segment .
On June 27  ,   2009  , Yahoo  !  Messenger was  एकीकृत   साथ  Yahoo ! Mail .
Tacoma (  ,  ) is a mid-sized urban port city and the  काउंटी  seat of Pierce  काउंटी   ,   वॉशिंगटन  , United  राज्य  .
the   नगर  is  on  Washington  's  Puget Sound  ,   दक्षिणपश्चिम  of Seattle  ,  northeast of  the  state capital , Olympia , and northwest  of  Mount  rainier  National  पार्क  .
The population was  198,397  , according to  the   2010  census .
Tacoma is  the  second-largest city  in  the Puget Sound area  और  the third largest  in   the   राज्य  .
Tacoma  भी  serves as the center of business  कार्यकलाप   लिये  the  दक्षिण  Sound region , which  रै  a  जनसांख्यिकी   of  around 1 million people  .
टकोमा  adopted its name after the  आसपास  Mount Rainier  ,  originally called Mount Tahoma .
it  is  ज्ञात  as  the  `` City  of  Destiny '' because the area was chosen to be the western terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad in the  लेट  19th  सदी  .
The decision of the railroad was influenced by  टकोमा   's  neighboring deep-water harbor ,  शुरुआत  Bay .
By connecting the  खाड़ी  with the  रेलरोड  Tacoma 's motto  became  `` When rails meet sails . ''
आज  Commencement  खाड़ी  serves the Port  of  Tacoma , a center of  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   व्यापार  on  the  Pacific Coast  और  Washington state  's  largest port .
जैसे  most central cities , Tacoma suffered a prolonged  मनाही  in the mid-20th century  as  a result  of  suburbanization and divestment .
Since the 1990s , developments  in  the  शहर  core include the  विश्वविद्यालयों   of  Washington Tacoma ;  टकोमा   कड़ी  , the first  आधुनिक  electric light rail service in the  राज्य   ;  the state 's highest density  of   आर्ट   और  history  संग्रहालय  ;  और  a restored urban waterfront ,  the   thea  Foss Waterway .
With  a  long history of  blue-collar  labor politics —  इससे  the  रेलरोड  workers of the  19th   सदी  ,  to  the longshoremen of the 20th century  ,   to   the  Labor Ready workers of today  —  Tacoma has  long   महरूम  known for  इसके   अशिष्ट   ,  gritty  चित्र   .
A song about  टकोमा  ,  ``  Thrice All American ''  ,  by  अमरीकी   singer-songwriter  and  पूर्व   निवासी  Neko  मामला   ,  describes it as `` a dusty old jewel in  the  South  puget  Sound / where the factories  निकले  /  और  the timber 's all  काटें  down ''  .
Tacoma-Pierce  काउंटी   रै  been named one of the  सबसे   livable   क्षेत्रों  in  the  country  .
टकोमा  was also recently  सूचीबद्ध  as the  19th  most walkable  नगर  in the country .
in  contrast , the city is  भी   क्रमित  as the most stressed-out  नगर  in  the  country  in  a 2004 survey  .
in   2006   ,   महिलाओं   's  magazine Self named Tacoma the `` Most Sexually Healthy  नगर   ''  in the United  राज्य   .
in   2012  ,  the  Advocate  दिया   टकोमा  the  शीर्षक  of `` Gayest City in America ''  ,  in  भाग  because of the large diversity  of  public offices held  ,   और  Washington  राज्य   गुजर  a bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to  निकाह  .
Tacoma  is  famous for the 1940  पतन  of the Tacoma Narrows  सेतु  .
Chula  विस्टा   (  ;  )   is  the second largest city in  the  San Diego  महानगर   क्षेत्रफल   ,  the seventh largest city in  दक्षिणी  California  ,  the fourteenth  largest  city in the State of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , and the 77th-largest city  in   the  United  राज्य  .
The population was 243,916  as  of the  2010  census .
Located just from  शहर  San Diego and  इससे  the  मैक्सिकन  border in the South  खाड़ी  region of the metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  , the  नगर  is at  the  center  of  one of  the   richest  economic and culturally diverse zones in the United States .
Chula Vista is so  नामित   क्युकी  of its  दर्शनीय  location between  the  San Diego  खाड़ी   और  coastal mountain  foothills  .
Founded  in  the early 19th century , fast population  विकास  has  recently  been  observed  in  the   नगर  .
As the second largest city in San Diego County , Chula Vista has quickly  become  a destination  लोकप्रिय   to  many tourists  .
Located in the city is one of America 's few year-round United States Olympic Training  centers  and popular tourist  गंतव्यों  include  क्रिकेट  Wireless Amphitheater  ,  the Chula Vista marina , and the Chula  विस्टा  Nature Center .
metes   और  bounds is  a  system  or  method of  describing  land ,  रियल  property ( in contrast  to   निजी  property  )  or real estate .
The system  रै  been used  in  England for  अनेक  centuries , and  is  still used there in  the   परिभाषा   of  general boundaries  .
By custom , it was applied in  the  original  तेरह  Colonies that  became  the United States ,  और  in many other land jurisdictions  आधारित   on  English common  विधि  .
typically   the  system  उपयोग   शारीरिक  features of  the  local geography ,  साथ  with  दिशानिर्देश  and distances , to define and describe the boundaries of a parcel  of   जमीन  .
the   सीमाएँ   हैं  described in a  कार्यशील   गद्य   स्टाइल  , working around the  पार्सल  in sequence  ,  from  a  point  of   शुरूआत   ,   returning  back to  the  same  पाइंट   ;  compare  साथ  the oral ritual of  धड़कन   the  bounds  .
it   may   शामिल  references to other  adjoining  parcels ( and their owners  )  , and it , in  फेरे  , could  भी  be  referred  to  in   बाद  surveys .
At the time the  वर्णन  is  compiled  , it  may  have been  चिह्नित  on the ground with permanent monuments placed where there were no  उपयुक्त  natural monuments  .
The  पद   ``  metes '' refers to  a   boundary   पारिभाषित  by the measurement  of  each straight run , specified by  a  distance  between   the  terminal points ,  और  an orientation or direction .
A direction may be a simple compass  bearing  , or a precise orientation determined  by   सटीक  survey  विधि  .
The term  ``  bounds '' refers  to  a more general  boundary  description ,  ऐसे   as   साथ   a  certain  watercourse  , a  स्टोन   वॉल  , an adjoining public  सड़क  way  ,  or an existing building .
The system  is  often  प्रयुक्त  to define larger pieces of property (  e.g   .  farms )  ,   और  political subdivisions ( e.g . town  सीमाएँ   )  where precise definition  is  not required or  होता  be far too expensive , or  previously  designated  सीमाएँ   can   be  incorporated into the description  .
Sir Isaac Newton (  25   दिसम्बर  164220  कूच   1727   )  was an  अंग्रेज़ी  physicist and mathematician who is  widely  regarded as one  of  the  सबसे  influential scientists of all time and as a  कुंजी  figure  in  the scientific revolution .
उसके  book Philosophiæ  naturalis   प्रिन्सिपिया  Mathematica  (  ``  गणितीय  Principles of Natural Philosophy  ''  )  ,   पहला  published in 1687 ,  रखी  the foundations  लिये   सबसे  of classical mechanics .
न्यूटन   भी  made seminal contributions to optics  और  shares  क्रेडिट   साथ  Gottfried  लैबनिट्ज़  for the  आविष्कार  of  the  infinitesimal calculus  .
Newton 's Principia formulated  the  laws of motion and universal gravitation that dominated  वैज्ञानिकों  ' view of the  शारीरिक  universe  लिये   the   अगला  three centuries .
it  also demonstrated that the motion of objects on the Earth  और   कि  of celestial bodies could be described by the same principles .
by  deriving Kepler 's laws of planetary motion  इससे  his mathematical  वर्णन  of gravity  ,   न्यूटन  removed the  पिछला   संदेह  about the validity of the heliocentric model of  the  cosmos  .
Newton built the  पहला  practical reflecting telescope and developed a theory  of   रंग  based  on  the observation  कि   a  prism decomposes white light  into  the many colours  of  the visible spectrum .
He  भी  formulated an empirical law  of  cooling  और   पढ़ाई  the speed  of  sound .
In addition to his work  on  the  कलन  ,  as   a  mathematician Newton contributed to the  पढ़ाई  of power series , generalised the  द्विपद  theorem to non-integer exponents , and developed Newton 's method  लिये  approximating  the   जड़ें  of a function .
Newton was a fellow  of  Trinity College and the second Lucasian  प्राध्यापक   of  Mathematics at  the  University of  कैम्ब्रिज  .
he   थी  a devout but unorthodox  ईसाई  and  ,  unusually for a member of  the   कैम्ब्रिज  faculty  ,  he  refused  to take holy  आदेश  in the Church of  इंग्लैण्ड  , perhaps because  he   privately  rejected the doctrine  of  trinitarianism .
In addition to his work  on   the  mathematical  sciences  , Newton also dedicated  much   of  his time  to  the study  of  alchemy and biblical chronology , but most of his work in  those  areas remained unpublished until  long  after  उसके  death .
in  his later life ,  न्यूटन  became president  of  the Royal Society .
He also served the British government as Warden  और  Master of the Royal Mint  .
Prof. Walter Lewin explains  न्यूटन  's  विधि  of gravitation  in  MIT  कोर्स   8.01
Satellites and projectiles  सब  obey Newton  's  law  of  gravitation
Newton  's  law of  सार्वभौमिक   gravitation  states  कि  every point mass in  the  universe attracts every other  पाइंट  mass with a  फ़ोर्स  that is  सीधे   आंशिक   to  the  उत्पाद  of  उनके  masses  और  inversely proportional to  the  square of the  अलहदा  between them .
(  separately  it  थी  shown that large spherically symmetrical  masses   आकर्षित  and are attracted as if all their mass were concentrated  at  their centers . )
This is  a  general  शारीरिक   विधि   निकला  from empirical observations by  कया  Newton called induction .
It is a part of classical  यांत्रिकी  and was formulated in Newton 's work Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` the Principia  ''  ) , first published  on  5 July 1687 .
(   जब   न्यूटन   's   किताब  was  प्रस्तुत   in  1686 to  the  Royal Society  ,  Robert Hooke made a  अर्जी  that Newton had  प्राप्त  the  विलोम  square law from him – see History section below  .  )
In modern language , the  विधि  states the following:
Assuming  si   इकाई  , F is measured in newtons  (  N ) , m1 and m2 in kilograms ( kg ) , r  in  meters ( m ) , and the constant G is approximately equal to  .
the   मान  of the constant G was  पहला   accurately  determined from the results of the Cavendish  प्रयोग  conducted  by  the British scientist Henry Cavendish  in   1798  ,  हालांकि   कैवेंडिश   किया  not himself calculate  a  numerical  मान  for G  .
इस   प्रयोग   थी   भी   the  first  परीक्षण  of Newton 's theory  of  gravitation  between  masses in  the   प्रयोगशाला   .
It took  प्लेस   111  years after the  प्रकाशन   of  Newton  's  Principia and 71 years after Newton  's  death  ,   so  none  of  Newton 's calculations could use the value  of   g  ; instead he could only  गणना  a  फ़ोर्स  relative to another  फ़ोर्स   .
Newton  's  law of gravitation  resembles  Coulomb  's  law of electrical forces , which is used  to  calculate the  परिमाण  of  विद्युत  force between two charged  लाशें  .
दोनो  are inverse-square laws , in  जिससे  force is  inversely   आंशिक  to the  वर्गाकार   of  the  अलहदा  between  the  bodies .
Coulomb 's Law has the product of two charges in place of the product of the masses , and  the  electrostatic constant in place of the  गुरुत्वाकर्षक  constant  .
Newton 's law  रै  since been superseded by Einstein 's theory  of  general  आपेक्षिकता  ,  लकिन  it continues to be used  as  an  बेहतरीन  approximation of the effects of gravity  .
आपेक्षिकता  is required  तभी  when  वहीँ  is a need for extreme precision , or  जब  dealing with  gravitation   लिये  extremely  विशाल  and dense  वस्तुएँ  .
White and red  ध्वज  , representing Iraqi and  अमरीकी  deaths , sit  in  the grass quadrangle of The Valley Library on  the  Corvallis  ,  Oregon , campus of Oregon State University .
as  part of  the  traveling  इराकी   देह  Count exhibit  इससे  2008 to 2009 ( not related to Iraq  देह  Count project ) , the  ध्वज  aim to  ``  raise  जागरूकता  of the human cost of the Iraq War .  ''
( May 2008 )
Casualties of the conflict  in  Iraq  चूंकि  2003 ( beginning  साथ   the  2003 invasion of Iraq  ,  and  continuing  with the ensuing  occupation  of Iraq , as  खूब  as  the  activities of the various armed groups operating in the country ) have come in many forms  ,  and the  सटीकता  of  the  information  उपलब्धियाँ  on different types of Iraq  युद्ध  casualties varies greatly .
The table below summarizes various estimates of  the   इराकी  casualty figures .
लिये  troops  in  the U.S.-led  बहुराष्ट्रीय  coalition , the death toll is carefully  tracked   और   अद्यतनीकृत  daily  ,  and the  names  and photographs of those  मारे  in  कार्रवाई  as well as in accidents have  महरूम   प्रकाशित  widely  .
A  कुल  of 4,486 U.S. soldiers  यहूद   मारे   in  Iraq between 2003 and 2012 .
Regarding the Iraqis ,  however  ,  सूचना   on  both military and civilian casualties  is  both less  precise  and less  सतत  .
Estimates of casualty levels  हैं  available from  पत्रकारों   on   the   झाँकी  , from officials  of  involved organizations  ,   और  from  समूह   कि  summarize information  on  incidents reported  in  the  न्यूज  media  .
The word ``  हताहत  `` in its most general sense includes the injured  as  well as the dead .
Accounts of the  क्रमांक  of coalition wounded vary widely  ,  partly because it is not obvious what should be counted  :  should  तभी   those  injuries serious enough to put a  सिपाही   आउट   of   आयोग  be included  ?
do  illnesses or  चोटों  caused by accidents  गिनती  , or  चाहिए  the focus be restricted to  wounds  caused by hostile  सगाई  ?
स्त्रोत  using different definitions may arrive at very different numbers , and sometimes  the  precise definition is  नहीं  clearly specified .
Asalto al coche ( Robbery of the  कोच   )  ,  by   फ्रांसिस्को  de  गोया
A highwayman  थी  a thief  और  brigand who preyed on  travellers   .
This type of  गैरकानूनी  usually travelled and robbed by horse , as  compared  to  a   footpad  who travelled  और  robbed on foot  .
Mounted  लुटेरों   यहूद  widely considered  to  be socially superior to footpads  .
ऐसे   लुटेरों  operated in Great Britain and Ireland from the Elizabethan era  जबतक  the  जल्दी  19th century .
The  शब्द  highwayman is  पहला  known to be used  in  the year  1617  ; other euphemisms  शामिल  `` knights of the  सड़क   ''  and ``  सज्जनों   of   the  road .  ''
दो  terms applied to 19th-century North American  highwaymen   यहूद  road  एजेंटों  in some  उदाहरण  for mountain  डाकुओं  while in other cases the term  is   rlallaala   लिये  mountain-based ruffians  .
In the same  समय  period in Australia ,  वे  were known as  bushrangers  .
Earvin  ``  Magic '' Johnson , Jr. ( born  अगस्त  14 ,  1959  ) is a retired American professional basketball player who played point  गार्ड  for the Los  एंजिल्स  Lakers of the National Basketball Association ( NBA ) .
After winning championships in high  स्कूल  and  कॉलेज   ,  Johnson was selected  पहला  overall in the  1979  NBA  ड्राफ्ट   by  the  लेकर्स  .
He won  a  championship and  an  NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award in  उसके  rookie season , and won four more  championships  with the Lakers during  the   1980s  .
जॉनसन  retired abruptly  in  1991 after  announcing  that he had contracted HIV , but  लौटे   to  play in the 1992 All-Star  खेल  , winning the All-Star MVP Award  .
After protests from his fellow players ,  he  retired again for four years , but returned  in  1996 , at age  36  , to play 32 games for the Lakers before retiring for the third and final  समय  .
Johnson  's  career achievements  शामिल  three NBA MVP Awards ,  नौ  NBA Finals appearances , twelve  all-star  games , and  टेन  All-NBA  पहला   और   दूसरी   टोली  nominations .
He  led  the league in regular-season assists  चार  times , and  is   the  NBA 's  all-time  leader in average  assists   प्रति  game  ,  at 11.2 .
Johnson was  a   सदस्य  of the  ``   सपना  Team `` , the  u.S.  basketball  टोली  that  जीती  the Olympic  सुनहरा  medal  in  1992  .
After leaving  the   एनबीए  in  1992  , Johnson  formed  the  जादू  Johnson All-Stars , a barnstorming  टोली  that travelled around the  संसार  playing exhibition games .
Johnson  थी  honored  as   एक  of the 50 Greatest  खिलाड़ी  in NBA History in 1996 ,  और  enshrined  in  the  बास्केट  Hall of Fame in  2002  .
He  थी   रेटेड  the greatest NBA point guard of all time by ESPN in 2007 .
His friendship and rivalry with  बोस्टन   सेल्टिक्स  star Larry Bird  ,  whom he faced in  the  1979 NCAA finals and  तीन   एनबीए  championship  श्रेणी  , were well documented .
Since  उसके   रिटायरमेंट  , Johnson  रै  been  an  advocate for HIV/ AIDS prevention  और  safe sex , as  खूब  as an entrepreneur , philanthropist  ,   प्रसारणकर्ता  and motivational speaker .
Johnson was  a  part-owner of the  लेकर्स   लिये  several years , and  थी  part  of   a  group  कि   खरीदा  the Los  एंजिल्स  Dodgers in 2012 .
Allium cells in different phases of the  कोशिका  cycle
The  कोशिकाएं  of  eukaryotes  (  बाएँ  )  और  prokaryotes ( right )
The  कोशिका   is  the basic structural , functional and biological unit of all known  जीना  organisms .
it   is  the smallest unit of  जीवन  that is  वर्गीकृत  as a  जीना  thing ( except virus , which consists only from  dna/rna   covered  by  प्रोटीन  and lipids  )  ,  और  is often called  the  building  ब्लाक  of life .
It  consists  of  a  protoplasm  enclosed  within  a   झिल्ली   ,  which contains  अनेक   biomolecules  such as  प्रोटीन  and nucleic acids .
Organisms can be  वर्गीकृत  as unicellular ( consisting of a single cell  ;  including most bacteria ) or multicellular  (  including plants and animals ) .
While the  क्रमांक  of  कोशिकाएं  in  पौधे  and animals varies  इससे   प्रजाति   to  species ,  इंसानो  contain about  100  trillion ( 1014 ) cells .
Most plant and animal cells  हैं   between   1  and 100 micrometres and  इसलिए  are visible only under the  सूक्ष्मदर्शी  .
the  cell was discovered by Robert  hooke   in  1665 .
The cell theory , first developed in 1839 by  matthias  Jakob Schleiden and Theodor  schwann  , states that all  जीवों  are composed of  एक  or more  कोशिकाएं  ,  कि   सब  cells  आइये  from  preexisting  cells  ,  that vital functions of an organism occur  भीतर   कोशिकाएं  , and  कि  all  कोशिकाएं   contain   the  hereditary  सूचना   जरुरी  for regulating cell functions and for  transmitting  information to the next generation of cells .
Cells  उभरा  on planet Earth  at  least 4.0–4.3 billion years  पहले   .
The  शब्द  cell comes from  the  Latin cella , meaning  ``   छोटी  room ''  .
The descriptive term for the  smallest  living biological structure was coined  by  Robert  hooke  in a book he published  in  1665 when he compared the cork cells  he   देखी  through his microscope to  the  small rooms monks lived in .
Grecian Formula is a men 's  बाल  coloring product in  the   संयुक्त  States .
Canada and  यूरोपीय  previously banned  the  product because of its  उपयोग  of lead  एसीटेट  .
a  motor scooter 's front  साथ   an  impractical number  और  variety of  headlamps  , added for decorative purposes
A  headlamp  is a  बल्ब  attached  to  the front of a vehicle to light  the  road  ahead  .
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile age , spurred by the great disparity between  दिन  and nighttime  ट्रैफ़िक  fatalities  :  the  u.S.   नेशनल   राजमार्ग  Traffic  सुरक्षा  Administration states that  nearly  half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in  the  dark , despite  तभी  25 % of  ट्रैफ़िक  travelling during darkness  .
While it is  आम  for the  पद  headlight  to   be  used interchangeably in informal  चर्चा  , headlamp is the term for the  यंत्र  itself  ,  while headlight properly  refers  to the beam  of  light produced and  वितरित  by  the  device  .
Other vehicles  ,  such  as  trains  और  aircraft , are  जरूरी  to have headlamps  .
Bicycle headlamps are often used on  साइकिल  , and are required in some jurisdictions  .
They can be powered by a  बैटरी  or a small  विद्युत  generator on the  व्हील  .
additionally  automotive night vision systems work  to   संपूरक  headlamps .
महिलाओं  's rights are the rights and  entitlements  claimed for women and  लड़कियों  of many societies  विश्वव्यापी  .
in   कुछ  places these rights  हैं  institutionalized or supported by law , local custom , and behaviour  ,  whereas in others  वे  may be ignored or suppressed .
They  differ   इससे  broader notions  of   इंसान  rights through claims of an inherent historical and traditional bias  विरूद्ध   the  exercise  of   अधिकारों  by  महिलाओं  and  लड़कियों   in  favour of men  और   लड़कों  .
मुद्दे  commonly associated  साथ  notions  of  women 's  अधिकारों   शामिल  , though are not limited to  ,  the right : to  bodily   अखंडता   और   स्वायत्तता   ;  to vote (  suffrage   )  ; to hold public office ;  to  work ; to fair wages or equal pay  ;   to  own property  ;   to  education ; to  serve   in  the military or be  conscripted  ;  to  enter into  विधिक   अनुबंध  ;  और  to  have  marital , parental  और  religious  अधिकारों   .
Caryn Elaine Johnson  ,  best known  as  Whoopi  गोल्डबर्ग  ( , ( born November  13  ,  1955   )  is an American comedienne , actress ,  singer-songwriter  ,  राजनैतिक  activist ,  लेखक   और  talk show host .
गोल्डबर्ग   बना   उसके  film debut in The  रंग  Purple (  1985   )  , playing Celie , a mistreated  ब्लैक   स्त्री   in   the   गहन   दक्षिण   .
वो  received a nomination  लिये  the  अकादमी   पुरस्कार  for Best  अभिनेत्री   और   जीती  her first  सुनहरी   ग्लोब  Award for her role in the film  .
In  1990   ,  she played  oda  Mae Brown ,  a  wacky  मानसिक  helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze )  सहेजें  his  प्रेमी  ( Demi  मूर  ) in  the   ब्लॉकबस्टर  Ghost  .
This performance  जीती  her  a  second  सुनहरी  Globe and an Academy Award for  बेहतरीन   supporting  Actress  ;  this made Goldberg only the second  ब्लैक   स्त्री   in  the history  of  the Academy  पुरस्कार  to win  an   एक्टिंग  Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who  जीती  for Gone  साथ  the  हवा  in 1939  .
Notable  बाद  films  शामिल  Sister Act  और  Sister Act 2 ,  the  Player  ,  Made  in   अमेरिका  , How  स्टेला  Got Her Groove  वापस  ,  लड़की   ,  Interrupted and Rat  रेस  .
She is also acclaimed for her roles as  the  bartender Guinan in  स्टार   ट्रेक  : The  अगला  Generation ,  as  Terry Doolittle in Jumpin  '  Jack  फ्लैश  , and  as  Carmen  tibideaux   in  Glee ,  as   खूब  as  the  voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King .
गोल्डबर्ग  has been nominated for 13 Emmy Awards  लिये  her work  in  television .
She was co-producer  of  the popular game show  हॉलीवुड  Squares from  1998  to  2004   .
She has been the moderator  of   the  daytime  बात  show  the  View since 2007  .
Goldberg has  a  Grammy , two  दिन  Emmys , two Golden Globes , a Tony  (  for production  ,  not acting  )  ,  और   an  Oscar .
in  addition , Goldberg has  a  British Academy Film Award , four People  's   चुनाव   पुरस्कार  , and has  महरूम  honored  साथ  a star  on  the Hollywood Walk  of  Fame .
She is one of the few entertainers who have  जीती  an Emmy , Grammy , Oscar ,  और  Tony Award .
the   नेशनल  Hockey  लीग  ( NHL  ;   )  is an  ``   unincorporated  not-for-profit association ''  जिससे   operates  a major professional ice  हॉकी  league of  30  franchised member  क्लब  , of  जिससे  seven are currently located in  कनाडा   और  23  in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
Headquartered in  नई   यॉर्क  City ,  the  NHL is widely considered to be the premier  पेशेवर  ice hockey league  in  the world , and one of  the   प्रमुख  professional sports  लीग  in the United States and Canada .
the  Stanley Cup , the  oldest  professional sports  ट्रॉफी  in North America , is awarded annually  to   the  league playoff champion at the end of each  ऋतु  .
The league was organized  on  November 26  ,  1917 ,  in  Montreal , Quebec  ,   कनाडा   ,   बाद  the  बर्खास्तगी   of  operations  of   इसके  predecessor  संगठन   ,   the  National  हॉकी  Association ( NHA  )  , which had been founded in 1909 .
It started  साथ  four teams and  ,   through  a  श्रेणी  of  expansions  , contractions , and  relocations  ,  the   लीग  is now  रचित  of  30  active franchises  .
The nation to which the name  of  the league originally  referred   थी   कनाडा  , although the league has now been binational since 1924 when it  विस्तारित  into the  संयुक्त  States .
After a labour dispute that led to  the  cancellation of  the  entire  2004–05  season  ,  the  लीग  resumed play  अंतर्गत  a new collective  bargaining  agreement that included  a  salary cap .
In 2009 ,  the  NHL enjoyed record highs in terms of sponsorships , attendance  ,  and  टेलीविज़न  audiences .
The  एनएचएल   draws  many  अत्यधिक   skilled  players from  सब  over the world and  फिलहाल  has players from about 20 different  देशों   .
हालांकि  Canadians have historically constituted  the  majority of  the   खिलाड़ी  in the NHL ,  over  the past  चार  plus decades the  percentages   of  US and  यूरोपीय  players  have  increased both  क्युकी   of  the NHL 's continued expansion  इससे  six to thirty clubs since 1967 , and the increased availability of highly  skilled  European  खिलाड़ी  .
Maggots feeding on carrion .
A maggot is the  लार्वा  of a  मक्खी  ( order  diptera   )  ; it is applied in particular  to  the larvae of Brachyceran  उड़ता   ,  such as houseflies  ,  cheese flies , and  blowflies  , rather than  लार्वे  of  the  Nematocera ,  ऐसे  as  मच्छरों  and Crane flies .
`` Maggot '' is not a  तकनीकी  term and should  नहीं  be taken as such ; in many standard textbooks of  कीटविज्ञान   it  does not  appear   in  the index at all .
in   अनेक   non-technical   ग्रन्थ  the  पद  is used  लिये  insect larvae in  सामान्य   .
Other sources have coined their own definitions  ;  for example : `` ...
The term applies to a grub when all  ट्रेस  of limbs  रै  disappeared ... '' and  ``  ... Applied  to  the footless  लार्वे  of  dipters  . ''
maggot-like  fly  लार्वे  are of  चौड़ी  importance in  पारिस्थितिकी  and medicine ;  among  other roles , various species  हैं  prominent  in  recycling carrion  और  garbage , attacking  फसलों  and foodstuffs , spreading microbial infections  ,   और  causing myiasis .
Herod ( ,  hordos  , Greek : , Hērōdēs ) , also known  as   हेरोदेस  the Great  (   73/74  BCE – 4 BCE  in  Jericho  )   ,  was a Roman client king of Judea  .
His epithet of  ``  the Great  ''   is  widely disputed as he is  वर्णित  as  ``  a madman who murdered his  अपना  family and  a   ग्रेट  many rabbis `` .
He is  भी  known  लिये  his  colossal   भवन   प्रोजेक्ट  in Jerusalem and elsewhere  ,  including his expansion  of   the   दूसरी  Temple in Jerusalem ( sometimes referred to as Herod 's Temple ) and  the   निर्माण  of  the  port at Caesarea Maritima .
Important  विवरण  of his biography are gleaned  इससे  the  works  of the 1st  सदी   ce  Roman–Jewish historian Josephus  flavius  .
The Romans made  हेरोदेस  's son , Herod Archelaus , ethnarch of Judea ,  samaria   ,   और  Idumea ( biblical Edom ) from 4 BCE  to  6 CE , referred to  as  the tetrarchy of Judea .
archelaus  was judged incompetent by the  रोमन  emperor Augustus who then  संयुक्त  Samaria ,  judea  proper and Idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until age 41 .
हेरोदेस  's  अन्य  son Herod Antipas was tetrarch of Galilee from 4  bce–39  CE .
ABO blood group antigens present on red blood cells and IgM  antibodies   उपस्थित  in the serum
the  ABO blood group system is the most important  रक्त  type system  (  or  रक्त   समूह  system  )  in human  रक्त  transfusion .
The associated anti-A and  anti-b  antibodies are  प्रायः   igm  antibodies  ,  which  हैं   प्रायः  produced  in  the first years  of  life by  sensitization  to  पर्यावरणीय   substances  such as food ,  जीवाणु  , and viruses .
ABO blood  प्रकार   हैं  also  उपस्थित  in  कुछ  other animals , for example apes such as chimpanzees , bonobos  ,  and gorillas .
साल   1907  ( MCMVII  )  was a common year starting  on  Tuesday (  कड़ी  will display the full  पंचांग  ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common  साल  starting on  सोमवार  of the 13-day-slower  जूलियन  calendar .
Northville is  an  affluent  नगर  located in and divided by Oakland and  वेन  counties  in  the U.S. state of  मिशिगन  .
the  area  is  a  उपनगरीय  of Metropolitan Detroit  .
The population was 5,970  at  the 2010 census .
Most  of  the  नगर  is in Oakland  काउंटी  , and  is  surrounded  by  the city of  novi   .
The Wayne County portion is surrounded by Northville Township .
northville   is   परोसा  by  northville   पब्लिक   स्कूलों   .
The city is  स्तिथ  northeast  of  Ann  arbor   और  northwest  of  Detroit .
Elaine Stritch ( born February 2  ,  1925 )  is  an  अमरीकी  actress  और  vocalist .
She  रै   appeared  in  numerous  stage plays and musicals , feature films , and many television programs .
वो   is   ज्ञात  for her performance of `` The  महिलाओं   जो   लंच  ''  in  Stephen Sondheim 's  1970   musical   कम्पनी   ,   उसके  2001 one-woman show , Elaine Stritch  at  Liberty  ,  and recently  लिये  her role as Jack Donaghy 's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock  .
She  रै  been nominated for  the   टोनी  Award  पाँच   टाइम्स  in  विभिन्न   श्रेणी   .
Stritch  is  also a three-time  एमी   पुरस्कार  winner .
Misfits is a British science  fiction   comedy-drama  television show about a  समूह  of young  अपराधियों  sentenced to work in a community service programme ,  जहाँ   वे   obtain  supernatural  शक्तियां  after a strange electrical storm .
The series opened in 2009 and is  फिलहाल  ongoing  .
Antonia Thomas , Iwan Rheon , Lauren Socha , Nathan Stewart-Jarrett ,  और  Robert Sheehan are introduced  as  Alisha Daniels ,  साइमन   bellamy  , Kelly  बेली  ,  कर्टिस  Donovan ,  और   नाथन  Young  क्रमशः   .
sheehan  left after  the  second series , replaced  in  the  तीसरा   by  Joseph Gilgun as  रूडी   वेड   .
After  the  fourth  श्रेणी  was announced  rheon   ,  Thomas and Socha  था  left their roles and would  be   replaced  by new characters Karla  crome  ,  नाथन  McMullen and  मैट  Stokoe , as  जेस  ,  फिन   और  Alex  क्रमशः  .
Midway  through  the fourth series ,  stewart-jarrett  left while Natasha O'Keeffe  joined  the cast as Abbey Smith .
On 19  कूच  2013  ,  Channel 4 announced at a press event that they  have   नवीनीकृत   misfits   लिये  a fifth and final  श्रेणी  containing 8  एपीसोड   .
ब्रेट   lorenzo   favre  (  born   अक्तूबर   10  ,  1969  ) is a  पूर्व   अमरीकी   फ़ुटबॉल  quarterback who spent  the  majority of his career with the Green  खाड़ी  Packers of the  नेशनल  Football  लीग  (  एनएफएल   )   .
He was a 20-year veteran of the  एनएफएल  , having played quarterback for the Atlanta  falcons  ( 1991 ) , Green  खाड़ी  Packers  (  1992  –  2007 ) ,  नई  York Jets ( 2008 )  और  Minnesota Vikings  (   2009  –  2010  ) .
Favre is  the   तभी  quarterback in NFL  इतिहास  to throw for over 70,000 yards ,  over  500 touchdowns  ,   over   300   interceptions  , over 6,000 completions , and over 10,000 pass attempts .
Favre started at  the  quarterback position  लिये  the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Southern  मिसिसिपी  for four years before  होने  selected  in  the  दूसरी  round of the 1991  एनएफएल  Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ) .
He  थी   traded  to  ग्रीन  Bay on February  10  , 1992 ,  लिये  the 19th  चुनें  in the 1992 NFL  ड्राफ्ट  .
Favre became  the  Packers ' starting quarterback  in   the  fourth game  of   the  1992  ऋतु  , stepping  in  for  घायल  quarterback Don Majkowski ,  और  started every game through the 2007  ऋतु   .
He  थी   traded  to the New York Jets and started at  क्वार्टरबैक   लिये  the 2008  ऋतु   पहले  signing with the Vikings on  अगस्त  18 , 2009  as  their starting quarterback  .
He  बना  an NFL record 297  लगातार  starts ( 321 including  playoffs  ) .
he  is  the  only  खिलाड़ी  to  जीत  the  ap   सबसे  Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ) .
He has led teams  to  eight division championships ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2002 , 2003  ,  2004 ,  2007   ,   2009   )  ,  पाँच   nfc  Championship Games  (   1995   ,  1996 , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 )  ,  and two Super Bowl  दिखावे   (   सुपर   कटोरी  XXXI , Super  कटोरी  XXXII ) , winning one (  सुपर  Bowl XXXI ) .
He holds many NFL records  ,   सहित  most  करियर  touchdown passes , most  करियर  passing yards  ,  most  करियर  pass completions , most career  pass  attempts , most career interceptions  thrown  ,  सबसे  consecutive starts by a player , most consecutive starts  by  a quarterback  ,   सबसे   करियर  victories as  a   starting  quarterback , most sacked , and most  fumbles  .
he   is   भी  referred to  by  his nickname ``  the   gunslinger  ''  .
The following is a  सूची  of  notable   वायुयान  hijackings around the world .
the  World  चौड़ी   वेब   (   abbreviated  as WWW or  w3  , commonly known as  the  web ) , is a  प्रणाली  of interlinked  हाइपरटेक्स्ट   दस्तावेज़   पहुँचा  via  the  Internet  .
With  a  web browser ,  एक   can   दृश्य  web pages  कि  may  contain   टेक्स्ट  , images ,  वीडियो   ,  and other multimedia  ,  and navigate between  उन्हें  via hyperlinks .
Using concepts from  उसके  earlier  हाइपरटेक्स्ट   प्रणालियों  like ENQUIRE , British engineer , computer scientist and  at   कि   समय  employee  of  the CERN  ,  Sir Tim  berners-lee  ,  अभी  Director of the  संसार  Wide  वेब  Consortium (  w3c  ) ,  लिखा  a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the  संसार  Wide  वेब   .
At  cern  ,  a  European  शोध  organisation near Geneva  straddling   the  border between France and Switzerland , Berners-Lee  और  Belgian computer  वैज्ञानिक  Robert Cailliau  प्रस्तावित  in 1990 to  उपयोग   हाइपरटेक्स्ट  `` to link  और  access information of  विभिन्न  kinds as a web of nodes  in  which the  उपयोक्ता   can  browse  at   होगा   ''   ,   और  they publicly  introduced  the project in December of the  वही  year .
Wayne  lyman  Morse ( October 20  ,   1900july  22 ,  1974  ) was a  राजनेता  and  attorney  from Oregon , United States  ,  known for his proclivity for  opposing   उसके  parties ' leadership , and  specifically  for his opposition to the Vietnam  युद्ध   on  constitutional grounds .
born  in Madison , Wisconsin  ,  and educated at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and  the  University of Minnesota Law  स्कूल  , Morse  स्थानांतरित   to  Oregon in 1930 and began  शिक्षण  at the University  of   ऑरेगॉन   स्कूल  of Law .
दौरान  World War II  he   थी  elected to the United States Senate as a  रिपब्लिकन  ; he became an Independent after Dwight D. Eisenhower  's  election to  the  presidency in  1952  .
जबकि  an independent  ,  he  नियत  a record for performing the  दूसरी   longest  one-person  filibuster  in the history  of  the Senate .
मोर्स  joined the Democratic Party  in  1955  ,  and was  reelected   twice   जबकि  a member of  कि   पार्टी  .
मोर्स  made a brief run for  the  Democratic Party  's  presidential nomination in 1960 .
A few years later , Morse  थी  one of only two Senators  जो   opposed   the   गल्फ   of  Tonkin  रेज़ोल्यूशन   ,  which authorized  the  president  to  take military action in Vietnam without a declaration of war  .
He  जारी  to  बोलो  out  विरूद्ध   the  war in the ensuing years , and  खोया  his  1968  bid  लिये  reelection to Bob Packwood ,  जो  criticized his strong  विपक्ष  to  the  war .
मोर्स  made two more  बोलियों   लिये   reelection  to  the  Senate  पहले   उसके   मौत  in  1974  .
In parliamentary procedure , a motion to table  रै  two different and contradictory  अर्थs:
in  the United  राज्य  , to table usually means the to  lay  [ the topic ]  on  the table or to  मूव  for  postponement  of consideration  ;  a proposal to suspend  विचार   of  a  स्थगित  motion  .
Much less  प्रायः  ,  it  means a motion to ``  put  on the table ''  :  a proposal  to  begin  विचार  (  or   reconsideration   )   ,   a  usage consistent with the  बाकी  of the English-speaking  संसार  .
In the rest  of  the English-speaking  संसार  such  as  the United  किंगडम  , to table  अर्थात्   to   मूव  to place [ the topic ]  upon   the   तालिका  ( or to move to  प्लेस  on the table )  :  a  प्रस्ताव  to begin consideration  (  or reconsideration ) of a proposal .
दोनो  the  अमरीकी  and the  अंग्रेजों  dialects have the sense  of  `` to  तालिका   ''  as to lay  [   the  topic  ]   on  the table or  to   कारण  [ the  टॉपिक   ]  to  झूठ   on   the   तालिका  .
The difference  is  the idea  of  what the table  is  for , that of a shelf  बंद   to  the side , or an active work bench .
The  अंग्रेजों  meaning  रै  the  भाव  of  the   तालिका  as being an active work bench ,  साथ   the  topic  होने  the center  of   ध्यान   ,  considered and  discussed  by all  जबतक  it can be  resolved  , at which point it is taken  बंद  the 'table '  .
The American sense is that  the  table is like that  of   a  shelf ,  अभिलेख  ,  or  long-term storage  यंत्र  , where  the  topic  रै  been disposed of by sending it to  the  'table '  और  leaving it there .
Toy Story 3 is  a  2010  अमरीकी  3D  कंप्यूटर  animated comedy-drama prison film , and the  तीसरा   किश्त  in the Toy Story series  .
It was produced by Pixar Animation Studios and distributed by Walt  डिज़्नी  Pictures .
निर्देशित  by  ली  Unkrich , the film  थी  released worldwide  इससे  June  through   अक्तूबर  in  डिज़्नी   डिजिटल   3-d  , RealD  ,  and IMAX 3D  .
खिलौना   स्टोरी  3  थी  also the first film to be  released  theatrically with Dolby  घेर   7.1   ध्वनि   .
the   पटकथा   थी  written by  माइकल  Arndt ,  जबकि   unkrich  wrote the  स्टोरी   साथ  with John Lasseter and Andrew Stanton  ,  respectively director and co-writer  of  the two first films  .
The plot  focuses   on  the  खिलौने  Woody , Buzz Lightyear , and their friends dealing with an uncertain future as their owner  ,   एंडी  ,  prepares   to  leave for college .
अभिनेताओं   tom   हैंक्स  ,  टिम  Allen , Joan  cusack   ,  Don Rickles  ,  Estelle Harris , John  ratzenberger  , Wallace Shawn , Jeff  pidgeon  , Jodi Benson , R. Lee Ermey  ,   जॉन  Morris ,  और  Laurie Metcalf  reprised   उनके  voice-over roles from the previous  films   .
Jim  varney   ,   जो  played Slinky Dog in the first  दो  films ,  और  Joe Ranft ,  जो  portrayed  lenny  and Wheezy  ,  both died before production began on  खिलौना  Story 3 .
The  भूमिका  of  slinky  Dog  थी   लिया  over by Blake Clark ( a friend of  varney  ) , while Ranft 's characters and  विभिन्न  others were written out  of  the story .
नई   वर्ण  include performances by  ned   beatty  , Timothy Dalton  ,  Kristen Schaal  ,   bonnie   हंट  ,  whoopi  Goldberg , Jeff Garlin ,  रिचर्ड   दयालु  , and Michael  कीटन   .
The  विशेषता  broke  shrek  the Thirds  रिकार्ड   as  the  biggest   खोलने  day North American gross for  an   एनिमेटेड   फिल्मी   unadjusted  for inflation , and a big opening  साथ  an  unadjusted   सकल   of  $ 110,307,189 .
It  is   भी  the highest-grossing opening  वीकेंड   लिये   a  Pixar film ,  as   खूब  as the  highest-grossing  opening  वीकेंड  for  a  film to have opened  in  the  माह   of  June  .
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010 ,  दोनो  in the  संयुक्त  States and Canada ,  और  worldwide  .
in  early August , it  became   पिक्चर्स   's  highest-grossing film at the North American box office (  surpassing  Finding Nemo  )   ,  and the  highest-grossing   एनिमेटेड   फिल्मी   of  all time  विश्वव्यापी   (  surpassing Shrek 2 ) ; later that month , Toy Story  3  became  the  first  कभी  animated  फिल्मी  in history to make over  $   1  billion  विश्वव्यापी  .
It is currently the  10th-highest-grossing  film  of   सब  time  .
Toy  स्टोरी  3  थी  nominated for five  अकादमी   पुरस्कार  , including Best Picture , Best  adapted   पटकथा  ,  और  Best Sound Editing .
it  was the third animated film ( after Beauty and the Beast and  up  ) to be nominated for Academy Award for Best Picture  .
It won the awards for Best Animated  विशेषता  and Best Original Song  .
John Levell  starks  (  born  August  10   ,  1965 )  is  an American  रिटायर्ड  professional basketball  शूटिंग  guard .
starks  was listed at 6'5  ''  and 190 pounds  दौरान  his NBA playing career .
Although he was not drafted in the 1988  एनबीए   ड्राफ्ट   बाद  attending four colleges  in  his native Oklahoma ,  सहित  Oklahoma State  विश्वविद्यालयों  , he gained fame  जबकि   playing  for  the   नई  York Knicks of the National Basketball Association in the 1990s  .
सुरक्षित  Digital  or   (  SD )  is  a non-volatile memory card format for  उपयोग  in  पोर्टेबल  devices , such as mobile phones  ,  digital  कैमरे  , GPS  नेविगेशन  devices  ,   और  tablet computers  .
The Secure  डिजिटल   मानक  is  कायम  by the SD Card Association (  sda  ) .
sd   technologies  have been implemented  in  more than  400  brands  आरपार   दर्जनों  of product categories and more than 8,000 models  .
The  सुरक्षित   डिजिटल   स्वरूप  includes four card  परिवारों  available in three different form factors  .
the   चार  families are  the   असली  Standard-Capacity (  sdsc   )  , the High-Capacity ( SDHC ) ,  the  eXtended-Capacity  (  SDXC  )   ,  and the SDIO , which combines  input/output  functions with data storage .
The  तीन   रूप  factors are the original  आकार   ,  the `` mini ''  आकार  ,  और   the  ``  सूक्ष्म  ''  आकार  ( see illustration ) .
वहीँ   हैं  many combinations of  रूप  factors and device  परिवारों  .
electrically   passive  adapters allow the use of a smaller card in a  मेजबान  device built to  थाम  a larger card .
Host devices that comply  साथ   नए  versions  of  the specification provide backward compatibility and accept  पुरानी  SD cards , but this  आलेख  explains several factors that can  prevent  the  उपयोग  of a  नए   sd   card:
a   नए  card  may  offer greater capacity than the  मेजबान  device can handle .
A  नए  card may use  a   संचिका  system  the  host device can  नहीं   navigate  .
Use of an  sdio  card requires  the  host device  be  designed for  the  input/output  कृत्यों  the card provides  .
The organization of the  कार्ड  was changed  starting  with the SDHC  परिवार   .
कुछ   विक्रेता  produced SDSC cards above  1  GB before the  sda  had standardized  a  method of doing so .
The  sda  uses several trademarked  लोगो  to enforce  अनुपालन  with its specifications and assure  उपयोक्ता  of compatibility .
Hugh John  mungo   ग्रान्ट   (   born  9 September 1960 )  is  a British  कर्ता   और   फिल्मी  producer  .
He has  प्राप्त  a  सुनहरी  Globe ,  a  BAFTA , and  an  Honorary  césar   .
His films have earned  अधिक  than US $  2.4  billion from 25  नाट्य  releases  विश्वव्यापी   .
Grant  हासिल   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  stardom  बाद  appearing in Richard Curtis  's  successful  चार  Weddings and a  अंत्येष्टि  ( 1994  )   .
he   प्रयुक्त  this breakthrough  भूमिका  as a frequent  cinematic  persona during the  1990s  ,  delivering  comic  प्रदर्शन   in   मुख्यधारा  films  जैसे  Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 )  और  Notting Hill  (   1999  ) .
By the  फेरे   of  the 21st century  ,  he  था   स्थापित   खुद  as  a  leading man  skilled  with a satirical comic talent .
ग्रान्ट  has expanded his oeuvre  साथ  critically  acclaimed  turns as a cad in  ब्रिजेट  Jones 's Diary  (  2001  )  , About  a  Boy ( 2002 ) , Love  दरअसल  ( 2003  )  , and American Dreamz (  2006  )  .
He later played against type with multiple  कैमियो  roles in the epic drama  फिल्मी  Cloud Atlas (  2012  ) .
Within the  फिल्मी  industry , Grant is  cited  as  an  anti-film star who  approaches  his  भूमिकाएँ  like a character  कर्ता   ,  and attempts to make  उसके  acting  appear  spontaneous .
Hallmarks of his comic  कौशल  include  a  nonchalant touch  of  irony / sarcasm and studied physical mannerisms  as  well as his precisely-timed dialogue delivery  और   फेशियल  expressions  .
The entertainment media 's  कवरेज  of  ग्रान्ट  's life  बंद  the big  स्क्रीन  has  प्रायः   निष्प्रभ  his work  as  a  thespian  .
He  रै  been vocal about  उसके  disrespect for the  व्यवसायिक   of  acting ,  और  in  उसके   तिरस्कार  towards the  संस्कृति  of  हस्ती   और   दुश्मनी  towards  the  media  .
In a career  spanning  30 years  ,  Grant  रै  repeatedly  claimed  that  एक्टिंग  is not  a  true  कॉलिंग   लकिन   बस  a job he  गिरी   into  .
The  हान  Dynasty (  ;  ) ( 206 BC  –  220 AD )  थी   an  imperial  राजवंश  of China  ,  preceded by the Qin Dynasty  (   221–207  BC ) and  succeeded   by  the Three Kingdoms (  220–280  AD )  .
It was founded by the rebel leader  लियू  Bang  ,  known posthumously  as  Emperor  gaozu  of Han .
it  was briefly  बाधित  by  the  Xin  राजवंश  ( 9–23 AD  )  of  the  former regent Wang Mang  .
This interregnum separates the Han into two  अवधि  : the Western Han ( 206  bc  – 9  ad  )  और   पूर्वी  Han  (   25–220   ad  )  .
Spanning  over   चार  centuries ,  the  period of the  हान   राजवंश  is  माना  a golden  आयु  in Chinese  इतिहास  .
to  this day  ,   चीन  's majority ethnic group refers to itself as the ``  हान  people '' and the Chinese script is  referred  to as `` Han characters  ``  .
The Han Empire was  विभाजित  into areas  सीधे  controlled  by  the  सेंट्रल  government  ,  known as commanderies ,  और  a number of semi-autonomous kingdoms .
These kingdoms gradually lost  सब  vestiges  of  their  स्वतंत्रता  , particularly following  the  Rebellion of the Seven  राज्य   .
The Xiongnu , a  nomadic  confederation  जिससे   वर्चस्व  the  पूर्वी  Eurasian Steppe , defeated the Han  फौज  in  बैटल  in 200 BC .
Following the defeat  ,  a  राजनैतिक  marriage alliance  थी   negotiated   in  which the  हान  became  the  de  facto  inferior partner .
When , despite the treaty  ,   the  Xiongnu continued to  रेड  Han borders , Emperor Wu of Han (  r.   141–87  BC ) launched several military  अभियान   विरूद्ध  them .
The ultimate Han victory  in   ये   युद्धों  eventually forced  the  Xiongnu to accept vassal status  as  Han tributaries  .
These campaigns expanded Han  प्रभुता  into the Tarim Basin of  सेंट्रल  Asia  और   helped  establish the vast trade network known as the  रेशा  Road  ,  which reached as far as  the  Mediterranean world  .
Han forces  प्रबंधित   to   divide  the Xiongnu  into  two competing  राष्ट्र  , the Southern  और   उत्तरी  Xiongnu , and  मजबूर  the Northern  xiongnu   आरपार  the Ili River .
Despite these  victories  , the territories north of Han  's   सीमायें   यहूद  quickly overrun by the nomadic  xianbei   कनफेडरेशन  .
After  92  AD ,  the  palace eunuchs increasingly  शामिल  themselves in court politics  ,  engaging in  हिंसक  power struggles between the various  consort  clans of the empresses  और   सम्राज्ञी  dowagers , causing  the  Han 's ultimate downfall  .
Imperial  प्राधिकार   थी  also seriously  challenged   by  large  daoist  religious  समाजों  which instigated the Yellow Turban Rebellion  और  the Five  pecks  of Rice  विद्रोह  .
Following  the  death of Emperor Ling ( r. 168–189 AD ) ,  the  palace  हिजड़े  suffered  होलसेल  massacre by military  अधिकारियों  , allowing members  of  the aristocracy  और  military governors to become warlords and divide the empire .
When Cao Pi , King of Wei , usurped the throne from  सम्राट  Xian , the Han Dynasty ceased  to  exist .
the  Han Dynasty  थी  an age  of  economic prosperity and saw a significant growth  of  the money  अर्थव्यवस्था   पहला  established  दौरान  the Zhou Dynasty  (  c.  1050–256  BC ) .
the   coinage   जारी  by the central government  मिंट  in 119 BC  remained   the  standard coinage of China  जबतक  the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907  ad  ) .
to  pay for its military campaigns and the  उपनिवेश  of  newly  conquered  frontier   territories  , the government nationalized the  निजी  salt and  आयरन  industries  in  117  bc  .
ये  government  monopolies   यहूद  repealed during  the  Eastern Han period , and the lost revenue was recouped  through  heavily taxing private  उद्यमियों   .
The emperor was at the pinnacle of  हान  society  .
he   presided  over  the  Han government but shared power with both the nobility and  नियुक्त  ministers who  आए  largely from the scholarly gentry  क्लास  .
From  the  reign of Emperor Wu onward , the Chinese court  officially  sponsored  confucianism  in  शिक्षा  and court  राजनीती  ,  synthesized   साथ   the  cosmology of  बाद  scholars  ऐसे  as Dong Zhongshu .
This policy endured until the fall of  the  Qing Dynasty in 1911 AD .
Science and technology during the Han period saw significant advances ,  सहित  papermaking , the  nautical   परिचालन   अरित्र  ,  the  use of negative numbers  in   गणित  , the raised-relief map , the  हाइड्रोलिक   -powered  armillary sphere for  खगोलशास्त्र   ,   और  a  भूकम्पमापी  employing an inverted pendulum .
tourette   सिंड्रोम   (  also called Tourette 's syndrome  ,  Tourette 's disorder , Gilles de la Tourette syndrome , GTS or  ,  more commonly , simply  tourette   's   or  TS )  is  an inherited  neuropsychiatric  disorder with onset in childhood , characterized  by   अनेक  physical  (   मोटर   )  tics  और   at  least one vocal ( phonic )  टिक   .
These tics characteristically  मोम   और  wane , can be suppressed  temporarily   ,   और   हैं  preceded by a premonitory urge  .
Tourette 's  is  defined as  भाग  of a  वर्णक्रम  of tic  विकार  , which  शामिल  transient and  दीर्घकालिक  tics .
Tourette 's  थी  once considered  a  rare and  विचित्र  syndrome  ,  most often associated with the exclamation of obscene words or socially  अनुचित  and derogatory remarks (  coprolalia  ) , but this symptom is present in only a small minority of  लोगों  with Tourette 's  .
tourette  's is no longer  माना  a rare condition , but it is  नहीं  always correctly  पहचाना   क्युकी   सबसे  cases are mild  और  the severity of  tics  decreases  लिये  most children  as   वे  pass  through   किशोरावस्था  .
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 %  of  children ages 5 to  18  may have Tourette  's   ;  the prevalence of transient and  दीर्घकालिक   tics  in school-age children is  उच्चतर   ,   साथ  the  अधिक  common tics  of  eye blinking , coughing  ,   गला  clearing , sniffing  ,  and facial movements .
चरम   tourette  's  in  adulthood is a  rarity   ,  and Tourette 's does not  adversely  affect intelligence or  जीवन  expectancy .
Genetic and  पर्यावरणीय  factors play a role in  the  etiology of Tourette 's , but  the  exact causes  हैं   अनजान  .
in  most cases , medication is unnecessary .
There  is  no effective treatment for every case of  tics  , but  निश्चित   medications  and therapies can  सहायता   जब   उनके   उपयोग   is   warranted   .
शिक्षा   is   an   महत्वपूर्ण   भाग   of  any treatment plan  ,  and  स्पष्टीकरण  and  reassurance  alone are often sufficient  उपचार   .
Comorbid conditions ( co-occurring  diagnoses  other than  tourette  's ) such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder  (   adhd  ) and obsessive–compulsive disorder ( OCD ) are  उपस्थित  in many patients seen in  tertiary   specialty   क्लिनिक   .
These other  शर्तें   प्रायः  cause more functional impairment  to  the  व्यक्तिगत  than the tics that  हैं   the   hallmark  of Tourette  's  , hence it  is  important to correctly identify comorbid conditions and treat them .
the  eponym was bestowed by  jean-martin  Charcot  (   1825–1893  ) on behalf  of   उसके   निवासी  , Georges Albert Édouard Brutus Gilles  de   la  Tourette (  1859–1904  )  ,  a French  चिकित्सक  and neurologist , who published an  खाता   of  nine patients with Tourette 's in  1885   .
Sunbeam  बैज  .
Sunbeam  थी   a  marque registered  by  John  marston  Co. Ltd  of   wolverhampton  , England , in 1888 .
The  कम्पनी  first made bicycles ,  तब  motorcycles and cars from the late 19th century until  परिचय  1936 , and applied  the  marque to  सब   तीन   फ़ॉर्म  of transportation .
The company also manufactured  एयरो  engines in the First World War and  647  aircraft  दौरान  the  दूसरी  World War  .
A Sunbeam  थी  the  पहला  British car to win  a  Grand Prix race , and  नियत  a  क्रमांक   of  land speed records  .
The  कम्पनी  went into  receivership  in 1935 and  थी  purchased by the Rootes Group ,  जिससे  continued to  उपयोग  the  सनबीम   marque  .
Fox  न्यूज   चैनल  ( FNC  )  , also known as Fox News  ,   is  a cable news channel owned by the  फॉक्स  Entertainment Group , a subsidiary of News Corporation .
As of April 2009 ,  the  channel was  उपलब्धियाँ  to 102  लाख  households in  the  United  राज्य   और  to viewers internationally  ,  broadcasting primarily from its New York studios  .
The channel  थी   निर्मित   by  Australian-American media mogul  रुपर्ट  Murdoch , who hired former  एनबीसी  executive Roger Ailes as its founding CEO  .
it   शुभारम्भ  on  अक्तूबर  7 , 1996 to 17 million  केबल  subscribers  .
It grew  दौरान  the  लेट  1990s  और   2000s   to  become  the  dominant  केबल  news  संजाल  in  the   संयुक्त  States .
Critics have  stated  that Fox News Channel promotes  रूढ़िवादी  political positions  और  biased  रिपोर्टिंग  .
Commentators , news anchors  ,  and reporters at Fox News Channel  have   responded  that news reporting and political commentary operate  independently  of each  अन्य  , and have denied any bias  in  news reporting .
The mandibular first molar  or  six-year molar is the tooth located distally ( away from the midline of  the   फेस  ) from both the mandibular  दूसरी  premolars  of   the  mouth but  mesial  (  toward  the midline  of  the face ) from  दोनो  mandibular  दूसरी  molars .
It is located on the mandibular (  निम्नतर  ) arch  of  the mouth ,  और  generally opposes the maxillary ( upper )  पहला  molars  और  the maxillary 2nd premolar  in  normal class I occlusion  .
the  function of this molar is  समान  to that of  सब  molars in regard to  पीस  being the  प्रिंसिपल  action during mastication , commonly known  as   चबाने   .
वहीँ  are usually five well-developed cusps on  mandibular  first molars  :   दो  on the  buccal  ( side  निकटतम  the cheek ) ,  दो  lingual  (  side nearest the tongue )  ,   और   एक  distal .
वहीँ  are great differences  between  the  पतझड़ी  ( baby ) mandibular molars and  those   of  the  स्थाई   mandibular   molars   ,   भी  though their  फलन  are similar .
The permanent mandibular  molars   हैं  not considered  to   have   कोई  teeth  कि   precede   it   .
Despite being  नामित   molars   ,  the deciduous molars  हैं   followed  by permanent premolars .
In the universal system  of  notation  ,   the   पतझड़ी  mandibular first molars are designated by  a  letter written  in  uppercase .
The right  पतझड़ी   mandibular  first molar  is   ज्ञात  as `` S '' ,  और  the left one  is  known as  ``   l   ''  .
The international notation has a different  प्रणाली  of  संकेतन   .
Thus , the right deciduous mandibular first molar is known as  ``  84  ''   ,  and  the  left one  is  known as  ``  74 ''  .
In the universal system of  संकेतन  ,  the   स्थाई  mandibular  पहला   molars  are designated by  a  number .
The right permanent mandibular  पहला  molar  is   ज्ञात  as ``  30  ''  ,  and the left one is  ज्ञात  as `` 19 '' .
The Palmer notation uses  a   क्रमांक  in conjunction with a symbol designating  in   जिससे   quadrant   the  tooth is found .
For this  दाँत  , the  बाएँ  and right first molars  होता  have the  वही   क्रमांक   ,  `` 6  ''  , but the right  एक   होता   have  the  प्रतीक  , `` ┐  ''  , over it , while  the  left one would  have  , ``  ┌  '' .
The international notation has a  अलग  numbering  प्रणाली   than   the  previous  दो   ,  and the right permanent mandibular first molar is known  as   ``  46 '' , and  the  left one is known as ``  36  '' .
Mandibular primary first  molars   प्रायः  have  चार   गूदा   horns  .
the   पहला  molar is  प्रायः  the  पहला   स्थाई  tooth  to  erupt and  रै   वयस्क   undertones  .
Anatomy : The mandibular first molar has  पाँच  cusps  :  the  mesiobuccal  ( MB ,  toward   midline  and cheek  )  ,  mesiolingual  ( ML , toward midline and tongue ) ,  distolingual   (  DL ,  दूर  from  midline  and towards tongue )  ,  distobuccal  (   db  ,  दूर  from  midline  and  toward  cheek ) , and distal (  d  ,  दूर   इससे  midline ) ,  सूचीबद्ध  in  अनुक्रम   of  decreasing size  .
सूचीबद्ध  in order of decreasing height they  हैं  : ML , DL , DF  ,  MF  ,   और   D.  An  आठवीं   cusp  was found in  a   प्राथमिक  second lower  molar  in an Argentinean child .
Viewed from the  शीर्ष   of  the tooth ( occlusal view  )   ,  the  mandibular   पहला   molar  is pentagonal ( five sided )  in  shape  और   tapers   toward  the  lingual  ,  साथ  the sides  होने   the  buccal surface  ,  the  mesial  surface  ,   the  lingual surface , distal surface  ,  and the distobuccal surface .
The occlusal surface has four grooves .
the  central  नाली   is   नहीं   सीधा   लकिन  runs  bas  the center of the  दाँत  mesially to distally and contains four pits ( mesial ,  सेंट्रल  ,  सेंट्रल  , and distal ) .
the   distobuccal  groove runs from the distal  गड्ढे  in the central groove  distobuccally   separating  the distal and  distobuccal  cusps .
the   lingual   नाली  runs  इससे   the  more distal of the central pits in  the   सेंट्रल  groove toward the  lingual  surface between the mesiolingual and  distolingual  cusps  .
The buccal groove  रनों  from the  अधिक  mesial of the  सेंट्रल   गड्ढों   in   the  central groove toward the buccal surface between the mesiobuccal and  distobuccal  cusps ending in the buccal pit .
The portion of the central groove between the central  गड्ढों  is  termed  the Lewis  ऑफसेट  and is mandatory  to  account for the  स्थितियाँ  of  the  buccal and  lingual   डोले  ( buccal groove being more  mesial  than the lingual groove while they  हैं  parallel )  .
From the buccal (  buccal  view  )  ,  दो   जड़ें  are present  .
The distal root is generally straighter , although  दोनो   प्रायः  have  a  slight distal curvature  .
The  हाइट्स  of contour on  the  mesial  और  distal  सम्पर्क  the adjacent teeth and are located at  the   जंक्शन   of  the occlusal  और   मध्य  thirds of the  क्राउन  .
The  फ्लोरिडा  Legislature  is  the two houses that act as the  राज्य  legislature of the U.S.  राज्य  of  फ्लोरिडा  .
the   फ्लोरिडा   संविधान  states  कि  `` The legislative power  of  the state  shall  be  vested  in a  विधानमंडल  of the  राज्य  of Florida , '' composed of  a  Senate and  हाउस  of Representatives .
The legislature is  seated  at the Florida  राज्य  Capitol in Tallahassee .
Stained glass depiction of Daniel  interceding  with  arioch  ,  the  king  's  guard .
Arioch  था  been charged with killing all the wise men  बाद   वे   यहूद   नहीं  able to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream .
Daniel 2 is  the  second chapter of the  किताब  of  डेनियल  in the  यहूदी  Bible  .
The  अध्याय  's source  टेक्स्ट   is  predominantly written  in  Aramaic .
According to  the  text ,  nebuchadnezzar  is the  किंग  of  बाबुल  who  is  troubled by  उसके  dreams .
He  मांगे   an  interpretation for his  सपनो  or  होगा   have  his  रहस्यवादी   interpreters  executed .
डेनियल  seeks Divine  अक्ल  to interpret the king 's  सपनो  and praises God with a short psalm .
परमेश्वर  gives  डेनियल  a vision in  the   रात्रि  to  खुलासा  the king 's dream  .
समर्थ  to satisfy the king ,  डेनियल  is promoted over the whole province of Babylon .
One  comcast  Center , the  मुख्यालय   of  Comcast  in  Philadelphia , PA .
the  old  comcast  logo from  1969   to   1999  , when it  थी  replaced with the crescent  लोगो  .
The Comcast  निगम   is  an American provider of entertainment , information and communications products  और  services .
It is the  largest  cable operator  ,  one of the  biggest  mass media  ,   घर   अंतरजाल  service  प्रदाता  ,  और  third largest home telephone service  प्रदाता  in  the  United  राज्य  , providing cable  टेलीविज़न   ,  broadband Internet , telephone  सेवा  and  in  some areas home  सुरक्षा  (  सहित  burglar  सचेतक  , surveillance cameras , fire alarm  प्रणालियों  and home automation  )   to  both residential and commercial customers in 40 states and the  ज़िला   of   कोलंबिया  .
the   कम्पनी  is  headquartered  in  फिलाडेल्फिया   ,   पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
in   2011   ,  Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake  in  media  संगुटिका  NBCUniversal  इससे   ge  in January 2011 , and began the process  of  purchasing  the  remaining  49  % on  फ़रवरी   12  ,  2013   ,  at  a  cost of $ 16.7 billion .
It completed  the  purchase on March  19   ,   2013  .
Comcast also has  significant  holding in several cable networks ( including E  !
entertainment   टेलीविज़न   ,   स्टाइल  Network  ,  G4  ,  the Golf Channel and NBC Sports Network  )   ,  distribution ( ThePlatform  )   ,  and  सम्बन्धित  businesses .
Comcast has been the subject of criticism for activities  सहित  its  stance  on  जाल  neutrality  ,  as well as poor results  on  customer  संतोष  surveys  .
Porcupines are rodents  साथ  a coat of sharp  कांटे  , or quills  ,  that defend and  camouflage   उन्हें   इससे   परभक्षी  .
वे  are  स्वदेशी   to   the  Americas , southern Asia , and Africa  .
Porcupines are the third largest of  the   rodents   ,  behind the capybara and the beaver .
Most porcupines are  परिचय   long  , with an long tail .
Weighing  ,  they are  rounded   ,  large and slow .
porcupines  come in  विभिन्न  shades  of   भूरा  , gray ,  और  the unusual white .
porcupines  ' spiny protection resembles that of the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs  और  monotreme echidnas .
The common porcupine is a herbivore  .
It eats leaves , herbs , twigs and  ग्रीन  plants like skunk  गोभी  and  क्लोवर  and in the winter it  may  eat bark .
the   उत्तर  American porcupine often climbs trees to find food .
the  African  साही  is not a  climber  and forages on the  मैदान  .
It  is  mostly  nocturnal  ,  लकिन  will sometimes forage  लिये  food  in  the  दिन  .
Porcupines have become  a  pest  in  Kenya and  हैं  eaten as  a   कोमलता  .
The  नाम  porcupine comes from Middle  फ्रेंच  porc espin ( spined pig ) .
a   क्षेत्रीय  American name  लिये   the  animal is quill pig  .
First  पेज  of US  पेटेंट  129,843 for Improvement in Lubricators for Steam-Engines
इलियास  J.  मैककॉय   (   may  2  ,   1844  –  अक्तूबर  10 , 1929 ) was a black Canadian-American inventor  और  engineer , who was  notable   लिये  his 57 U.S. patents , most to do  साथ  lubrication of steam engines  .
born   फ़्री  in Canada  ,   he  returned as  a  five-year-old  चाइल्ड  with his family  to  the United  राज्य  in 1847 ,  जहाँ   he  lived  लिये   the   बाकी  of his  जीवन  and became a  us  citizen .
Honda FCX  स्पष्टता  , a hydrogen fuel cell demonstration vehicle introduced in 2008
A hydrogen vehicle is a vehicle  कि  uses hydrogen as its  onboard  fuel for motive  शक्ति  .
हाइड्रोजन  vehicles include hydrogen fueled space rockets ,  as  well as automobiles and other transportation  वाहनों   .
The power plants  of  such  वाहनों  convert the chemical energy  of  hydrogen  to  mechanical energy either by burning  हाइड्रोजन  in an internal combustion engine ,  or  by  reacting  hydrogen with  ऑक्सीजन   in   a  fuel cell to run electric  मोटर्स  .
Widespread  उपयोग  of hydrogen for fueling transportation is a key element of a proposed hydrogen  अर्थव्यवस्था  .
Hydrogen  ईंधन  does not occur naturally on Earth and  यूँ  is not  an  energy source  ;  rather  it  is an energy carrier .
It is most  अक्सर  made  इससे  methane or other fossil fuels  ,  but it can be produced  using   स्त्रोत  ( such as  हवा  , solar , or nuclear ) that are intermittent  ,  too diffuse or  too  cumbersome to  सीधे  propel vehicles .
एकीकृत  wind-to-hydrogen plants  ,   using  electrolysis of water , are exploring  technologies  to  उद्धार  costs low  पर्याप्त  , and quantities great enough ,  to   compete  with traditional energy  स्त्रोत  .
अनेक  companies are working to develop technologies  कि   might  efficiently  exploit  the potential  of  hydrogen  उर्जा   लिये  mobile  उपयोग   .
The attraction of using hydrogen  as  an  उर्जा  currency is that  ,  if hydrogen  is  prepared without using fossil  ईंधन  inputs , vehicle propulsion  होता  not contribute  to  carbon dioxide emissions  .
the  drawbacks  of  hydrogen  उपयोग  are high  पूंजी  cost , low energy content per unit volume ,  ऊँची   tankage  weights , very high  भंडार   पोत  pressures ,  the  storage  ,   परिवहन   और  filling of gaseous  or  liquid  हाइड्रोजन   in  vehicles , the large investment in infrastructure  कि   होता  be required to fuel  वाहनों   ,  and the  inefficiency  of production  प्रक्रियाओं   .
Sacramento  is  the  पूंजी  city of the U.S.  राज्य  of California and the  सीट   of  government of Sacramento  काउंटी   .
It is  स्तिथ  at the confluence  of  the Sacramento  नदी  and the American  नदी  in  the  northern portion  of   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  's expansive  सेंट्रल  Valley .
With  an  estimated 2011 population  of  477,891 , it is the sixth-largest city in California  और  the  35th  largest city in  the  United States .
Sacramento  is  the core cultural and economic center of  the  Sacramento  महानगर  area  जिससे   शामिल  seven counties with  an  estimated 2009  जनसांख्यिकी  of 2,527,123 .
Its  महानगर  area is the  चौथी  largest in California  बाद  the Greater Los  एंजिल्स  Area , San Francisco Bay Area , and the  सैन  Diego metropolitan area , as well  as  the 25th  largest  in the  संयुक्त   राज्य   .
Sacramento  थी  cited  by   समय  magazine  as  America 's most ethnically  और  racially integrated  नगर  in  2002  .
Sacramento became a  नगर  through  the  efforts of the Swiss  अप्रवासी  John Sutter  ,  Sr. , his son John Sutter  ,   jr.  , and James W.  मार्शल  .
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the  सुरक्षा  of Sutter  's   फोर्ट  ,  जिससे   थी  established by Sutter in  1839   .
During the California Gold  फटाफट  , Sacramento was a major distribution point , a commercial and agricultural center , and a  टर्मिनस  for wagon trains , stagecoaches , riverboats  ,  the telegraph , the Pony Express  ,  and the First Transcontinental Railroad  .
California  राज्य  University ,  sacramento  , more commonly  ज्ञात   as  Sacramento State or Sac  राज्य  ,  is   the   largest  local  विश्वविद्यालयों  .
it  is one of  the   twenty-three   campuses  of  the   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   राज्य  University system .
Drexel University  sacramento  is located in  शहर  , Sacramento .
University of the  प्रशांत  's McGeorge School of  विधि   is  located in the Oak Park neighborhood .
In addition , the University of California  ,   डेविस   is   स्तिथ  in nearby Davis , west of the capital .
The  uc  Davis  चिकित्सा  Center ,  a  world-renowned research  हॉस्पिटल  , is located  in  the city of  sacramento  .
the  Apple Store  is  a chain  of  retail stores  स्वामित्व  and operated by Apple Inc. , dealing in computers and  उपभोक्ता  electronics  .
The stores sell Macintosh personal  कंप्यूटर   ,   तन्त्र  , iPods  ,  iPads , iPhones  ,   third-party  accessories  ,  and  अन्य   उपभोक्ता  electronics such as  ठहराना  TV .
कुछ   ऊँची  profile stores feature  a  Theatre  लिये   प्रस्तुतियों   और  workshops  और  a  स्टुडियो   लिये   प्रशिक्षण  with  ठहराना   उत्पाद  ;  सब  stores offer a  प्रतिभाशाली   बार   लिये  technical support and repairs  ,  as  खूब  as  फ़्री  workshops available  to  the public  .
Under the  नेतृत्व   of  Ron  जॉनसन  , the  पूर्व  Senior Vice President of Retail Operations , the Apple Stores have , according  to  an article  in  the New  यॉर्क  Times , been responsible  लिये   ``  [ turning ]  the  boring computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled with  गैजेट  ''  .
,  Apple has  405  stores worldwide , with global sales  of   अरब  in merchandise in  2011   ,   और   वे  lead the United  राज्य  retail market in terms of sales  प्रति   ईकाई  area .
Steven Paul  ``  Steve '' Jobs (  ;  February  24   ,  1955  –   अक्तूबर  5  ,  2011 ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor , best known as the co-founder  ,  chairman ,  और  CEO of  ठहराना  Inc .
through  Apple  ,  he was  widely  recognized  as  a  charismatic   पायोनियर   of  the  निजी  computer revolution and for his influential career  in  the  कंप्यूटर  and  उपभोक्ता  electronics  फ़ील्ड   ,   transforming   ``  one industry after another  ,  from  कंप्यूटर  and smartphones  to  music and  फिल्मों  ...  ''
Jobs also co-founded  और  served  as  chief executive  of  Pixar Animation Studios ; he became  a  member of the  फलक   of  directors of The Walt  डिज़्नी  Company in 2006 , when Disney acquired  पिक्चर्स   .
Jobs was among the first  to   देखिए  the commercial potential  of  Xerox PARC 's mouse -driven  आलेखीय  user interface , which led to  the  creation  of  the Apple Lisa  और  , one year later , the  मैकिंटोश  .
He also played  a  role in  introducing  the  laserwriter  , one of the  पहला   widely  available laser  मुद्रक  , to the market  .
After  a  power struggle  साथ  the board of directors in 1985  ,  Jobs left Apple and  संस्थापित  NeXT , a  कंप्यूटर  platform  विकास  company specializing in the higher-education and business markets  .
in  1986 , he  acquired   the  computer  ग्राफिक्स  division of Lucasfilm  ,  which  थी  spun off as  पिक्चर्स   .
He  थी  credited in Toy Story  (   1995  )  as  an executive producer .
He served  as  CEO and  बहुमत   shareholder  until  डिज़्नी  's purchase of Pixar  in   2006  .
In 1996  ,  after  ठहराना  had failed to  उद्धार   इसके  operating  प्रणाली   ,  Copland , Gil Amelio turned to  अगला  Computer  ,   और   the  NeXTSTEP platform became  the  foundation  लिये  the Mac OS X .
Jobs returned to Apple as an advisor , and  took   कंट्रोल  of  the  company as an interim CEO  .
Jobs  brought  Apple from  निकट  bankruptcy to profitability by 1998 .
As the new CEO of the  कम्पनी   ,   कार्य  oversaw the development of the iMac  ,   itunes  , iPod , iPhone , and iPad , and on the services side  ,   the   कम्पनी   's   ठहराना  Retail Stores ,  itunes  Store  और  the App Store  .
The success of these products and services  provided  several  सालो  of stable financial returns , and  propelled  Apple to  become  the world 's most  मूल्यवान  publicly  traded  company in 2011 .
the  reinvigoration of  the  company is regarded by many commentators as one of the greatest turnarounds in business history  .
in  2003  ,  Jobs was diagnosed  साथ  a pancreas  neuroendocrine  tumor .
हालांकि  it was initially  treated  , he  reported  a hormone  असंतुलन   ,   underwent   a   जिगर   प्रत्यारोपण  in 2009  ,  and appeared progressively  thinner  as his  स्वास्थ्य  declined .
On medical leave for most of 2011 , Jobs resigned in August that  साल  , and was elected  अध्यक्ष  of the Board .
He died  of  respiratory arrest  सम्बन्धित  to his metastatic  ट्यूमर  on October 5 , 2011  .
Jobs  प्राप्त  a  क्रमांक  of honors and public  मान्यता   लिये  his  influence   in   the  technology and music  उद्योग  .
He  रै   महरूम  referred to as `` legendary  ''  ,  a  `` futurist '' or simply  ``  visionary '' ,  और   रै  been described as the `` Father of the  डिजिटल  Revolution '' , a  ``   निपुण   of   नवीनता  '' ,  और   a  ``  डिज़ाइन   perfectionist  ''  .
Entrance to section  (  52  )   of  the  कोलोसियम   ,  with numerals still visible
Roman numerals  ,  the  न्यूमेरिक  system in  प्राचीन  Rome  ,   उपयोग  combinations  of  letters from the  लैटिन   वर्णमाला  to  signify  values .
The numbers 1 to 10 can  be  expressed in Roman  numerals  as  follows:
and .
the  Roman numeral system is a cousin of Etruscan  numerals  .
Use  of  Roman numerals  जारी  after the decline of the Roman Empire .
इससे  the  14th   सदी  on ,  रोमन   numerals  began to be replaced in most contexts by more  सुविधाजनक  Hindu-Arabic numerals ;  however  this process was  क्रमिक  , and  the  use of  रोमन  numerals  in  some  नाबालिग  applications continues to this day  .
Effective  नाभिकीय  Charge  आरेख
The effective nuclear  चार्ज  (  प्रायः  symbolize as or Z* ) is the net positive  चार्ज  experienced  by  an electron  in  a multi-electron  अणु  .
the   पद   ``  effective '' is used because  the  shielding  प्रभाव  of negatively charged  electrons  prevents  उच्चतर  orbital electrons from experiencing the full nuclear  चार्ज  by the repelling effect  of  inner-layer  electrons  .
The effective nuclear charge experienced by the outer  शेल  electron  is  also called  the  core  चार्ज   .
It is possible  to   determine   the  strength of the nuclear charge by looking at the oxidation number of  the   अणु  .
इस  is  a  list  of  episodes from the  डिस्कवरी   चैनल  series  ,   तूफ़ान   chasers  .
a   ग्रामीण   खींचें  of I-5  ,  with two lanes in  प्रत्येक   दिशा   अलग   by  a  विशाल  grassy median  ,  and with cross-traffic limited to  overpasses  and underpasses
The  ड्वाइट  D. Eisenhower  नेशनल  System of Interstate and  रक्षा  Highways ( commonly known  as  the Interstate  राजमार्ग   प्रणाली  , Interstate  फ्रीवे   प्रणाली   ,  Interstate System  ,  or  बस  the Interstate )  is  a network of freeways  कि  forms a  भाग   of   the   नेशनल  Highway System of the United States .
The system is named  लिये  President  ड्वाइट  D. Eisenhower  ,  who  championed   इसके  formation .
Construction was authorized by the Federal  सहायता  Highway  अधिनियम  of  1956  ,  और  the original portion was completed 35 years later .
The network has since  महरूम  extended ,  और  , it  था  a total length of ,  बनाना  it  the  world 's  दूसरी   longest  after  चीन  's . ,  परिचय  one-quarter of  सब  vehicle miles driven in the  देश   उपयोग  the  अंतरराज्यीय   प्रणाली   .
The cost of construction  रै  been  अनुमानित  at $  425  billion ( in 2006 dollars  )   ,  making  it   the  `` largest public  works  program since the Pyramids `` .
The system has contributed in shaping  the  United  राज्य  into  a   संसार  economic superpower and a highly  industrialized  nation .
.eu  is the  देश  code top-level domain ( ccTLD  )  for the European  संघ  (  eu  )  .
Launched on 7 December  2005   ,  the domain is  उपलब्धियाँ   लिये   संगठनों  in  और   निवासियों   of   eu  member  राज्य  .
The TLD  is  administered  by  EURid ,  a  consortium originally consisting  of  the national ccTLD  रजिस्ट्री   ऑपरेटर  of Belgium , Sweden , and Italy  ,  joined later  by   the   नेशनल  registry operator of the  चेक  Republic .
Trademark  स्वामी  were able to submit registrations through  a  sunrise period ,  in  an effort  to  prevent cybersquatting .
पूरा  registration started on  7  April 2006  .
meister  means master in German ( as  in   निपुण   craftsman  , or as an honorific  शीर्षक  such  as  Meister Eckhart ) .
The word  is  akin to  maestro  .
In sports , Meister  is  used for the  वर्तमान  national , European or  संसार  champion ( Deutscher Meister  ,  *Europameister , Weltmeister ) .
Many modern day German police forces  उपयोग  the title  meister  .
During the Second  संसार  War ,  meister   थी  the  उच्चतम   आयोजिक  rank of the Ordnungspolizei  .
Meister  रै  been  उधार  into English slang , where it  is   प्रयुक्त  in compound  nouns   .
A person referred  to   as   “meister”  is one who has extensive theoretical knowledge and practical skills in his profession  ,  business , or some other kind of  कार्य  or activity  .
For example  ,  a  “puzzle-meister”  would be someone highly  skilled  at solving puzzles .
ये  neologisms  sometimes  have a  व्यंग्यात्मक  intent  (  for example , “stubble-meister” for someone with a short , neat beard  or  “crier-meister”  लिये   किसी  who  प्रायः   cries  ) .
mighty  Morphin Power Rangers is  an  American live-action  children  's television series about teenagers with  super-powers   ,  based on the 16th installment of  the  Japanese Super Sentai franchise ,  kyōryū  Sentai  zyuranger  .
Both  the  show and  इसके   सम्बन्धित  merchandise saw unbridled  overnight  success ,  बनने   a  staple of 1990s pop culture in mere  महीने  .
अंतर्गत  the  असली  name , `` Mighty Morphin  शक्ति  Rangers  ''   the   श्रेणी  ran from 1993 to  1995   और  spawned the feature film  mighty   morphin  Power Rangers : The  फिल्म   .
the  second and  तीसरा  seasons of the show  खींचा  on footage and  तत्व   इससे   the   सुपर  Sentai series Gosei Sentai Dairanger and  निंजा   sentai   kakuranger  respectively , though  the  Zyuranger costumes  यहूद   स्टिल  used for the  पाँच  main Rangers and several  नियमित   खलनायक   .
Only the mecha  और  the  kiba  Ranger costume ( worn by the  श्वेत  Ranger ) were  retained  from Dairanger  लिये   the  second  ऋतु  , while  तभी   the   mecha  from Kakuranger were  प्रदर्शित  in  the  third  ऋतु  .
However the Kakuranger costumes  यहूद  later used for the  शीर्षक   वर्ण   of  the mini-series , Mighty Morphin  एलियन  Rangers .
The series was produced by MMPR Productions , distributed  by  Saban Entertainment ,  और  aired on Fox Kids .
The  दिखाएँ  's merchandise was  उत्पादित  and distributed by Bandai Entertainment .
In  1996  , the  श्रेणी  was  rebranded   as  the Power Rangers franchise ;  renaming  the series every year  बाद  , and using costumes , props , and footage from  subsequent  Super Sentai  श्रेणी  , as  खूब  as  बदलना  the cast and  कथानक  .
जबकि   an  overarching storyline would continue until Power Rangers  खोया  Galaxy , subsequent series after MMPR  हैं   नहीं   सिक्वेल  or spin-offs in the  परंपरागत   भाव  .
In 2010 ,  a  re-version of  mighty   morphin   शक्ति   रेंजरों   ,  with a new  लोगो   ,  comic book-referenced  ग्राफिक्स   ,   और  extra  वैकल्पिक  special effects , was broadcast on  एबीसी  Kids ,  और   बंदाई  produced brand new toys to  coincide   साथ  the series  .
Edgar Allan  पो  ( born  एडगर  Poe ; January  19  , 1809 – October  7  , 1849 ) was an  अमरीकी  author , poet ,  एडिटर  and  साहित्यिक  critic , considered  भाग   of  the American Romantic Movement .
Best known  लिये  his tales of  रहस्य   और  the  घोर  ,  पो  was one of the  earliest  American practitioners of the  छोटी  story and is generally considered the inventor of the  जासूस  fiction  विधा  .
he   is  further  credited  with contributing to the  उभरते  genre of science fiction  .
He was the first well-known American  लेखक   to  try to earn a  जीना   through  writing alone  ,   resulting  in a financially difficult life and  करियर  .
He  थी  born as Edgar Poe in  बोस्टन  , Massachusetts ;  he  was orphaned young when  उसके  mother died shortly after  उसके   पिता  abandoned the family  .
Poe  थी   लिया  in by John and Frances Allan , of  रिचमंड   ,  Virginia ,  लकिन  they never  formally  adopted him .
He attended  the  University of Virginia  लिये  one semester but  बाएँ   due  to lack of money .
After enlisting in the  फौज   और  later failing as an officer  's  cadet  at   वेस्ट  Point ,  पो  parted ways with  the  Allans .
His publishing  करियर  began humbly  ,  with an anonymous collection of  कविताएं  ,  tamerlane   और   अन्य   कविताएं  (  1827   )   ,  credited  तभी  to ``  a   bostonian  '' .
Poe switched his  फ़ोकस  to prose  और   खर्च  the next several years  working  for literary journals and periodicals ,  बनने   ज्ञात   लिये  his  अपना   स्टाइल  of literary criticism .
His work forced him to  मूव  among several cities , including Baltimore , Philadelphia  ,  and New  यॉर्क   नगर  .
In Baltimore in 1835 ,  he  married Virginia Clemm , his 13-year-old cousin  .
In January 1845 Poe published his  कविता  , `` The Raven `` ,  to  instant  कामयाबी  .
उसके   बीवी   died  of tuberculosis  दो  years  बाद   इसके  publication  .
He began planning to produce  उसके  own journal , The  penn  ( later renamed The  स्टाइलस   )  ,  हालांकि   he  died before  it  could be produced  .
On October  7   ,  1849 , at age 40  ,   पो   died  in Baltimore  ;  the  कारण  of  उसके  death is unknown  और  has  महरूम   variously  attributed  to  alcohol , brain congestion  ,  cholera  ,  drugs  ,  heart disease , rabies , suicide ,  तपेदिक  ,  और  other  एजेंटों  .
Poe and  उसके   works   बहकावे  literature in  the  United  राज्य  and around the world , as well as in  specialized   फ़ील्ड  , such  as   cosmology  and cryptography  .
पो  and his work appear throughout popular culture in  साहित्य   ,  music , films , and television  .
A number of his homes are dedicated museums today .
The Mystery Writers of America present  an  annual award known as the Edgar  पुरस्कार  for distinguished work in  the   रहस्य  genre .
Lions are obligate carnivores ; they require  up   to  seven kilograms ( 15  पाउंड   )  of  मांस  per  दिन  .
a   प्रमुख  component  of   उनके  diet  is   the  flesh  of  large mammals ,  जैसे  this African  भैंस  .
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat eater '  (   लैटिन  , caro meaning  'meat  '  or  'flesh ' and  vorare  meaning 'to devour  '  ) is an organism  कि  derives  इसके  energy and nutrient  आवश्यकताएँ   इससे  a  आहार  consisting mainly or exclusively of  एनिमल  tissue  ,   whether  through  predation  or scavenging .
पशु  that depend  solely   on   एनिमल  flesh for  उनके  nutrient requirements  हैं  considered carnivores while  those  that also consume non-animal food  हैं   माना  carnivores .
Omnivores also consume  दोनो  animal and  non-animal  food ,  और  apart  इससे  the more  सामान्य   परिभाषा  ,  वहीँ   is  no  clearly   पारिभाषित  ratio  of  plant to animal material that  होता  distinguish a facultative  carnivore  from an omnivore .
A carnivore that  sits  at  the  top of the  foodchain  is an apex  परभक्षी  .
Plants that capture  और  digest insects are called carnivorous  पौधे  .
Similarly ,  fungi   कि  capture  microscopic  animals  हैं  often called carnivorous fungi .
The FIFA World  कप  ,  प्रायः   बस  the World  कप  , is  an   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  association football competition contested by the  वरिष्ठ   मेन  's national teams  of  the members of Fédération  internationale  de  फ़ुटबॉल  Association  (  FIFA ) , the sport 's global  शासी  body  .
The championship has  महरूम  awarded every  चार  years  चूंकि  the  inaugural   टूर्नामेंट  in 1930  ,   मगर   in   1942  and 1946 when  it  was  नहीं  held because of the  दूसरी  World War .
The current champions are  स्पेन  ,  जो   जीती  the  2010  tournament .
The current format of  the  tournament  involves   32  teams  स्पर्धा  for the title  at  venues within  the  host  स्वदेश   (  s ) over  a  period  of  about a  माह   ;  this phase  is   प्रायः  called the World Cup Finals  .
A qualification phase ,  जिससे  currently takes place over the  preceding   तीन   सालो  ,  is  used to determine which  टीमों   qualify  for the  टूर्नामेंट  together with the host nation  (   s   )   .
the   19   संसार  Cup tournaments have been won by eight different  नेशनल   टीमों  .
Brazil have won five times ,  और   वे   हैं  the only team  to   have   निभाई  in  प्रत्येक   टूर्नामेंट  .
The other World Cup winners are Italy  ,   साथ   चार  titles ;  जर्मनी   ,  with  तीन  titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay , with  दो  titles each ;  और  England , France , and Spain  ,  with one  शीर्षक  each  .
the  World Cup is  the  world  's  most widely viewed sporting event  ;  an estimated 715.1 million  लोगों   देखी  the  फाइनल   मैच  of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next  तीन   संसार  Cups  होगा  be hosted by Brazil in 2014 , Russia  in  2018 ,  और  Qatar in 2022 .
Heroes is an American science fiction television drama  श्रेणी   निर्मित  by Tim Kring that appeared on NBC  लिये  four seasons from September  25  ,  2006  through  फ़रवरी   8  , 2010 .
The series  tells  the stories of  ordinary  people who discover  superhuman  abilities , and how  ये  abilities take  प्रभाव   in  the characters ' lives .
The series emulates  the   aesthetic  style and storytelling  of  American comic books , using multi-episode story arcs that build  upon   a  larger  ,  more  encompassing  arc .
The series was  उत्पादित  by  tailwind   प्रोडक्शन्स  in association with  सार्वभौमिक  Media Studios .
It  थी   फिल्माया   primarily  in Los Angeles , California .
Four  पूरा  seasons  aired  , ending  on  February 8 , 2010 .
The critically acclaimed first season had a  चलाएं  of  23  episodes  और  garnered  an   औसत   of  14.3  लाख  viewers in the  संयुक्त  States  ,   receiving  the highest rating for an  एनबीसी   नाटक   प्रीमियर  in five years  .
the  second season of Heroes  आकर्षित  an  औसत  of  13.1  million viewers in the U.S. , and marked NBC 's sole series among the top 20  क्रमित  programs  in  total viewership  लिये  the 2007–2008  ऋतु  .
Heroes  रै   अर्जित  a number of awards and  nominations  , including Primetime  एमी   पुरस्कार  , Golden  ग्लोब्स  ,  लोगों   's   चुनाव  Awards  और   अंग्रेजों  Academy Television Awards  .
An  ऑनलाइन  extension  of  the  श्रेणी  , Heroes 360 Experience , later rebranded as  नायक   evolutions  , was created to explore the Heroes universe and provides insight  into  the show 's mythology  .
Other official  नायक   मीडिया  include magazines , action figures  ,  tie-in  और  interactive websites  ,   a  mobile game ,  a  novel , clothing  और  other  merchandise  .
in   the   पतन  of  2008   ,  NBC  डिजिटल   entertainment   released  a series of  ऑनलाइन  content for the summer  ,  including more original web  सामग्री  , wireless iTV interactivity ,  ग्राफिक  novels available  लिये  mobile viewing and webisodes .
NBC  घोषित   नायक   रद्दीकरण   on  May 14 , 2010 .
Afterward  ,  the network considered making a television  खास   इवेंट  to conclude  the  series ; however , on  सितंबर  9  ,   2010   ,  NBC announced the decision  to  stop any further development  of  the  नायक   मताधिकार  .
टिम  Kring then  सुझाया  that the broad premise of Heroes storylines allowed for the franchise to  वापसी  for fans ,  लकिन  he did  नहीं  specify when or  in  what  मीडिया   स्वरूप  .
On April  17   ,  2013 ,  tv  Line reported  कि   एमएसएन  was in  बाते   to   revive   the   श्रेणी  with a  नई   डाल   .
John Pierpont ``  J.  P . ''
Morgan ( April  17  ,  1837  – March  31  , 1913 ) was an American financier , banker  ,  philanthropist and  आर्ट   कलेक्टर  who  वर्चस्व  corporate finance and industrial consolidation  दौरान  his time  .
in  1892 Morgan arranged the  विलय  of Edison General  इलेक्ट्रिक  and  thomson-houston  Electric Company to form General Electric .
After  financing  the  सृष्टि   of  the Federal Steel  कम्पनी   ,   he   मिलाया   in   1901  with the Carnegie Steel Company  और  several other  स्टील  and iron businesses  ,   सहित   संचित  Steel and  तार  Company owned by William Edenborn , to form the United States Steel Corporation .
Morgan died in  रोम   ,   इटली   ,   in   उसके  sleep in  1913  at the age  of  75 , leaving his fortune  और   कारोबार  to his son , John  pierpont   ``  Jack '' Morgan  ,  Jr. , and  bequeathing  his mansion and large book collections to The  मॉर्गन   पुस्तकालयों  &  संग्रहालय   in  New York .
at  the  ऊँचाई   of  Morgan 's  करियर  during the early 1900s  ,  he and  उसके  partners had  वित्तीय  investments  in  many large corporations  और  were accused by critics of controlling the nation 's high  वित्त  .
He directed the banking  गठबन्धन  that stopped the Panic  of  1907 .
He was the leading  फाइनेंसर  of  the  Progressive Era  ,  and his dedication to efficiency and modernization helped  रूपांतरण  American business .
This  is   a  list of episodes of the  टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी   .
The episodes  यहूद  directed by Shigeru Ueda  और  produced by  the  Yggdrasil Executive Committee which  शामिल   xebec  and Genco .
The plot  of   the  episodes is  नियत   in  Tokyo and revolves  around  Rin  asōgi  ,  an  immortal private investigator , as she explores the secrets  of  modern  और  near-future world and the supernatural events that surround the fictional society  of  immortals  जैसे  herself .
There  हैं  large  समय  gaps in the  आतंरिक   कालक्रम   between  the first five episodes ,  ranging   इससे  one to thirty years  .
The six episodes  यहूद  broadcast  मासिक   on  AT-X  चैनल  in Japan ,  between  February 3  और  July  6  , 2008 .
प्रत्येक  episode is  45   मिनट्स  long .
Two pieces  of  theme  म्यूज़िक  are  प्रयुक्त   लिये  the episodes  :  the  खोलने   थीम  ``  alsatia   ''  and the  समाप्ति  theme ``  कारण  Disarray '' .
Both were composed and performed by the Japanese  मेटल   बैंड  Galneryus .
The series  थी  produced to  commemorate  the tenth  वर्षगांठ  of the  at-x  network it originally  aired  on .
aerial  photo of FLETC ,  जहाँ  US digital forensics standards were developed  in  the  1980s  and  '90s
डिजिटल   forensics  ( sometimes  ज्ञात  as  डिजिटल   forensic   विज्ञान  )  is  a branch of forensic  विज्ञान  encompassing  the  recovery  और  investigation of material  मिला   in   डिजिटल  devices , often in  संबंध   to   कंप्यूटर  crime .
The term digital  forensics  was  originally  used as a  पर्याय  for computer forensics but has expanded to cover  छानबीन  of all devices capable of storing digital  आंकड़ा  .
साथ   जड़ें   in  the  निजी   कम्प्यूटिंग  revolution of the late 1970s and early '80s , the discipline evolved  in  a  haphazard   manner  during the 1990s , and it was not  जबतक  the early 21st  सदी  that  नेशनल  policies  उभरा  .
Digital  forensics  investigations  have  a  किस्में  of applications  .
The  सबसे  common is to support or refute  a  hypothesis before criminal  or   सिविल  (  as  part of the electronic discovery process ) courts .
forensics  may also  विशेषता  in the  निजी  sector ; such as  दौरान  internal  कॉरपोरेट  investigations  or  intrusion investigation ( a specialist probe into the nature and extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ) .
the  technical  पहलू  of an investigation  is   विभाजित  into several  sub-branches   ,  relating to the  प्रकार  of digital devices  शामिल  ; computer forensics  ,  network  forensics  , forensic data analysis and  मोबाईल  device forensics  .
The  ठेठ   forensic  process encompasses  the  seizure , forensic imaging ( acquisition )  और  analysis of digital media and the production of a report into collected  प्रमाण  .
as   खूब  as identifying direct evidence of a  अपराधों   ,  digital forensics can be used  to  attribute evidence to specific  संदिग्धों  , confirm  alibis  or statements , determine intent  ,  identify sources ( for example , in  कापीराइट  cases ) , or  authenticate   दस्तावेज़   .
Investigations are  much  broader in  पैमाना  than other areas of forensic analysis  (  where the usual aim is to provide  जवाब  to a  श्रेणी   of  simpler questions ) often  involving  complex time-lines or hypotheses .
a  comparison of the  chromaticities   enclosed   by   कुछ  color spaces .
A color model is an abstract mathematical model describing the way colors can be represented  as  tuples  of  numbers , typically  as   तीन   or  four  मान  or color components (  e.g   .   आरजीबी   और  CMYK are  रंग   मॉडल  ) .
however  ,  a  color model  साथ   no  associated  मानचित्रण  function to  an  absolute color space is  a   अधिक  or  कम   मनमानी   रंग  system  साथ   no  connection to  कोई   globally  understood system of color interpretation .
Adding  a  certain mapping function between the color  मॉडल   और  a  निश्चित  reference color space  परिणाम  in  a   definite   ``  footprint ''  भीतर  the reference color  स्पेस  .
इस  ``  पदचिह्न  '' is  ज्ञात  as a gamut ,  और  , in combination with  the  color model  ,  defines a new color space  .
For  उदाहरण  , Adobe RGB and sRGB are two different  निरपेक्ष  color spaces , both based on the RGB model  .
In the most generic  भाव  of  the  definition above , color  स्पेसेस  can be defined without  the  use of a color model .
These  स्पेसेस  ,  ऐसे  as Pantone ,  हैं  in effect a given set of  names  or numbers which are  पारिभाषित   by  the existence of  a  corresponding set of physical  रंग  swatches .
इस   आलेख  focuses  on  the mathematical  मॉडल  concept .
Labor  दिन  is an American federal holiday observed on the  पहला  Monday in September  ,  that celebrates the  आर्थिक  and social contributions  of  workers .
Life insurance is a  अनुबंध   between  an  insured   (  insurance policy holder )  और  an insurer , where the insurer promises to pay a designated beneficiary a sum  of   धन  ( the `` benefits '' ) upon  the  death  of  the insured person  .
depending  on the  अनुबंध   ,  other events such as terminal  बीमारी  or  नाजुक  illness  may  also trigger payment .
The policy holder  typically  pays a premium , either  regularly   or  as a lump  योग   .
Other expenses ( such as funeral  खर्च   )  are also sometimes included in the  लाभ  .
जीवन   नीतियों  are legal  अनुबंध  and the terms of the contract describe  the  limitations of the  insured  events .
Specific  exclusions  are often  लिखा   into  the  अनुबंध  to  सीमा   the  liability  of   the   insurer  ; common examples are claims relating  to  suicide  ,   धोखाधड़ी   ,  war , riot  और  civil commotion .
Life-based contracts tend  to   पतन  into two major categories:
सुरक्षा   नीतियों   –  designed to provide a benefit in the event  of  specified event ,  typically  a  lump  sum payment .
a  common  रूप   of  this design is  पद   बीमे   .
निवेश  policies –  जहाँ   the   प्रमुख  objective is to facilitate  the   विकास  of capital by  नियमित  or  सिंगल  premiums .
Common  फ़ॉर्म  ( in the US ) are whole life ,  सार्वभौमिक  life and variable life  नीतियों   .
{  {  infobox   अवकाश
Chinese New  साल
9 –  12  February  (  Vietnam )
Mitzi Gaynor  donahue  ( born May  2  , 1962  in   yorba  Linda ,  नारंगी   काउंटी  , California  )  is an American actress , also  credited  and more popularly  ज्ञात   as  Mitzi Kapture .
Kapture  began  her career  in   films  , most of  जिससे  were  नहीं   विशाल  commercial successes .
She  गई  on  to  make  a   few   टेलीविज़न  guest appearances ( MacGyver  ,  1st  &  Ten  ,  and as  a  contestant on The  $  100,000 Pyramid )  पहले  she gained international exposure with  उसके   पहला   प्रमुख  television role as  सार्जेंट  Rita Lee Lance in the television  श्रेणी   रेशा  Stalkings .
Kapture 's role as Rita , the  अन्य  half  of  the two `` Sams ''  लिये  almost  5   सालो  , cemented her popularity .
Paired with Rob Estes who played  सार्जेंट  Chris Lorenzo ,  kapture   gained  global recognition along with her costar since the show was broadcast in several countries  .
Sergeant Lance eventually became  लेफ्टिनेंट  Lance by the  समय  Kapture left  the  series in 1995 to have  उसके  first  चाइल्ड   मैडिसन   .
During  उसके  time  साथ  the series  ,  Kapture briefly sat in  the   निदेशक  's chair ,  लिये   दो  episodes .
वो   थी  interviewed  लिये   the   रेशा  Stalkings Season 1 DVD which was  वितरित  by Anchor  खाड़ी  Entertainment and  released  in September 2004  .
After a short hiatus from the  स्क्रीन  following her  निकास  from Silk Stalkings ,  kapture   लौटे  in  1997  to  the   छोटी  screen  और  USA  संजाल  .
She  निभाई  lead  भूमिकाएँ  in two USA Pictures  मूल  telemovies ,  पूर्ण  Crime  (   आधारित   on  a  सच्चा  story  ,   भी  called Hide  और  Seek  :  The Joanne Jensen  स्टोरी  ) , which also starred Jasmine  guy   और  His  अंगरक्षक   .
वो  later starred in  a   few  other independent  फिल्मी  projects and theatre productions  और  had several  टेलीविज़न  guest appearances .
Kapture also had  a  recurring role on Baywatch  as  Alexis Ryker .
She  निभाई  Anita Hodges  on  The Young  और  the Restless from 2002 through 2004  ,   जहाँ  she  थी  credited as  mitzi  Kapture Donahue  ,  and  स्ट्रक्चर  in the  made-for-tv   फिल्म  Night of  आतंक  which premiered March 26 , 2006 on Lifetime Network .
Her latest is a supporting role in God 's Ears , released in  2007  .
Kapture is  the  official  हस्ती  spokesperson  लिये  the Xeroderma Pigmentosum Society .
The Xbox 360  is  the second video game  कंसोल  developed  by  and  उत्पादित  for Microsoft and the successor  to   the  Xbox  .
The Xbox 360 competes  साथ  Sony 's  प्लेस्टेशन   3  and  निन्टेंडो  's Wii  as   भाग  of the seventh  पीढी   of  video  खेल  consoles  .
As  of   सितंबर  30 , 2012  ,  70 million Xbox  360   consoles  have  महरूम   बेची  worldwide .
The Xbox 360  थी  officially unveiled on MTV on  may   12   ,  2005 ,  साथ  detailed launch and  खेल  information divulged later  कि  month  at  the Electronic Entertainment Expo ( E3 ) .
The console  बेची   आउट   completely  upon release in all regions except in  जापानी   .
Several major features  of   the  Xbox  360   हैं  its integrated Xbox Live service  कि  allows players  to   compete  online ; download  आर्केड   खेल   ,   खेल   demos  , trailers , TV shows  ,   म्यूज़िक  and movies  ;  and  इसके  Windows Media  बीच   मल्टीमीडिया   सामर्थ्य  .
The Xbox Live also offers  अभिगम  to various  (  often region-specific  )  third-party media streaming applications .
At their  e3  presentation  on   जून  14  ,  2010  ,  Microsoft announced  a   redesigned   एक्सबॉक्स  360 that  होता   जलयान   on  the same day .
The redesigned console is slimmer than the previous Xbox 360 model and  सुविधाएँ  integrated  802.11  b/g/n Wi-Fi ,  toslink   s/pdif   ऑप्टिकल   ऑडियो   आउटपुट  ,  पाँच  USB  2.0   पोर्ट  (  compared   to  the  तीन   इससे   पुरानी   संस्करण  ) and  a  special AUX port .
पुरानी  models  of  the Xbox 360  have  since been discontinued .
The  पहला  new  कंसोल  to be released  सुविधाएँ  a  250  GB hard drive  ,  while  a  later ,  कम   महंगी   sku  features 4  gb  internal  भंडार  .
Backpack  may   भी  refer to a  2001  novel  by   एमिली  Barr
A modern  backpack
Swiss  फौज  backpack ca  .  1960
एकीकृत   तुमको  frame .
A backpack ( also called  रूकसाक  , knapsack , packsack  ,  pack ) is , in  इसके   सरलतम  form  ,  a cloth  बोरी  carried on one 's back  और  secured with two straps that  go  over the  कन्धों   ,   लकिन   वहीँ  can  be   अपवाद   .
lightweight   प्रकार  of backpacks  हैं  sometimes  worn  on  तभी  one  कंधे  strap .
Backpacks are often preferred to handbags for carrying  भारी  loads  or  carrying  कोई  sort of equipment  ,  because of the  सीमित  capacity to  carry  heavy weights for long periods  of   समय  in  the  hands .
Large backpacks , used to  carry   loads  over  10  kg ( 22 lbs ) ,  प्रायः  offload the  largest   भाग   (   up  to about  90  % ) of their weight onto padded hip belts , leaving the shoulder  straps   मुख्यतः   लिये  stabilising the load .
This improves  the   संभावित  to carry  भारी  loads , as the  कूल्हों   हैं  stronger  than   the   कन्धों  , and also  increases  agility and  संतुलन   ,  since the load rides  nearer  the wearer  's  own center  of  mass .
In ancient times , the backpack  थी   प्रयुक्त  as a  अर्थात्   to  carry the hunter  's  larger game  और  other  प्रकार  of prey and as  a  way  of  easier  हस्तांतरण   लिये  other materials  .
In the cases of larger hunts , the hunters would dismember  उनके   शिकार   और  distribute  the   टुकड़े  of the animal around , each one packing the  मांस  into many wrappings  और  then  into  bags  जिससे  they placed  on  to their backs .
The bag itself was made  up   of  different animal hide  और  skin ( depending on  कया   sorts   of   पशु  were in the  क्षेत्रफल   )  and sewn together by the  आंतों   of  said animals  ,   जिससे  were  woven   साथ   tightly   to   मेक  a sturdy thread-like material .
Mexico  (  ; ;  )  , officially the  संयुक्त  Mexican  राज्य  ( )  ,   is   a  federal  संवैधानिक  republic in North America  .
It is bordered on  the  north by the  संयुक्त  States  ;   on  the south and west  by  the Pacific Ocean ; on the southeast  by  Guatemala , Belize , and the Caribbean Sea ; and  on  the east by the  गल्फ   of  Mexico .
Covering  लगभग   दो   लाख  square  किलोमीटर  ( over  760,000   sq   mi  ) ,  मैक्सिको  is the fifth  largest  country in the Americas by total area  और   the  13th largest independent nation  in  the world .
With an estimated  जनसांख्यिकी   of  over  113  million  ,  it  is  the world  's  eleventh  सबसे   populous  country and  the  most populous Spanish-speaking  देश  .
मैक्सिको   is  a  संघ  comprising thirty-one states and a Federal  ज़िला   ,   the   पूंजी  city .
In pre-Columbian  मैक्सिको  many cultures matured into advanced civilizations such as the Olmec , the Toltec , the Teotihuacan  ,   the  Zapotec  ,  the Maya and  the  Aztec before first  सम्पर्क  with Europeans .
in  1521 , Spain conquered  और  colonized the territory  इससे   इसके   आधार  in  méxico-tenochtitlan   ,   जिससे  was administered as  the   viceroyalty   of  New Spain .
This territory would eventually become  मैक्सिको  following recognition of  the  colony  's  independence in 1821 .
the  post-independence period was characterized  by  economic instability  ,   the  Mexican-American War  और  territorial cession  to  the United  राज्य  , a civil  युद्ध  , two empires and  a  domestic dictatorship .
The  latter  led  to  the Mexican Revolution  in  1910  ,  which culminated with the  promulgation  of  the  1917 Constitution and the  emergence  of the  देश  's current political system .
Elections  आयोजित  in July 2000 marked the first time that an opposition  पार्टी  won the presidency from the Institutional  क्रांतिकारी  Party .
Since  2006  the  देश  has been in  the   midst  of a drug war  जिससे   रै   caused  60,000 deaths .
Mexico has one of  the   संसार  's largest  economies  , and is considered both a regional  शक्ति  and middle  शक्ति  .
in  addition  ,  Mexico  थी   the  first  लैटिन  American member of the  संगठन  for  आर्थिक   co-operation   और  Development  oecd   (   चूंकि  1994  )  ,  और   माना  an upper-middle  आय  country by the World Bank  .
मैक्सिको   is  considered  a  newly industrialized country  और  an emerging power  .
it  has the  fourteenth  largest nominal GDP  और  the  eleventh  largest  जीडीपी  by purchasing power parity .
The economy is strongly linked to  those   of  its  उत्तर  American Free  व्यापार   अनुबंध  ( NAFTA ) partners ,  विशेषकर   the   संयुक्त  States  of   अमेरिका  .
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and first  in  the Americas by number of  युनेस्को  World  विरासत  Sites  साथ  31 , and in 2007 was  the  tenth  सबसे  visited  देश   in  the  संसार  with 21.4 million international arrivals per year  .
बेब  Ruth holds the MLB career slugging percentage record (  .690   )  .
In baseball statistics  ,  slugging percentage  (  abbreviated SLG ) is a popular  माप   of   the  power  of  a  hitter  .
It is calculated as total bases divided by  at   bats   :
where AB is the  क्रमांक  of at-bats for a given player , and 1B ,  2b  , 3B ,  और  HR are the  क्रमांक   of  singles , doubles  ,  triples , and home runs  ,  respectively  .
सैर  are specifically excluded from  इस  calculation .
For example  ,   in  1920 , Babe Ruth played his first  ऋतु  for the New York Yankees .
In 458 at bats ,  रुथ   था  172  हिट्स  , comprising  73  singles , 36  युगल   ,  9 triples , and  54  home runs ,  जिससे  brings the total  आधार   गिनती   to   (  73 × 1  )  +  (  36 × 2 )  +  ( 9 × 3 ) +  (  54 × 4 ) =  388  .
उसके   कुल   क्रमांक  of bases ( 388 ) divided by  उसके  total at-bats  (   458  )  is  .847 ,  उसके  slugging  प्रतिशत   लिये   the  season .
the  next  साल  he slugged .846 , and these records  गई  unbroken until  2001   ,   जब  Barry Bonds achieved 411 bases  in   476   at-bats  , bringing  उसके   slugging  percentage  to   .863  ,  बेमेल   चूंकि  .
is  a  role-playing video game developed  और  published by Square ( now Square Enix  )   लिये  the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1995  .
Chrono Trigger 's  विकास  team  शामिल   तीन  designers that  वर्गाकार  dubbed the ``  सपना  Team ''  :  Hironobu  sakaguchi  , the  निर्माता  of  वर्गाकार  's  फाइनल  Fantasy series ;  yuji  Horii , a freelance  पंक्तियां  and creator of Enix 's  लोकप्रिय  Dragon Quest  श्रेणी  ; and  अकिरा   toriyama  ,  a   freelance   manga  artist famed  लिये  his  कार्य  with Dragon  क्वेस्ट  and Dragon Ball .
Kazuhiko  aoki   उत्पादित  the game  ,  Masato Kato wrote most  of  the  प्लाट  , while  composer   yasunori  Mitsuda  scored  most of the  खेल  before  गिरना  ill and deferring  बाकी  tracks to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu .
The game 's  स्टोरी   फ़ॉलो   a  group of adventurers  जो  travel through  समय   to  prevent  a   वैश्विक   प्रलय  .
Square re-released a ported  संस्करण  by Tose in Japan  लिये  Sony  's   प्लेस्टेशन  in 1999 , later repackaged with  a  Final Fantasy IV port  as  Final Fantasy Chronicles in  2001   लिये  the North  अमरीकी   मार्केट  .
A slightly enhanced Chrono Trigger was  released   लिये  the  निन्टेंडो  DS on November  25  , 2008 , in  उत्तर  America and Japan  ,  and  गई  on sale in Australia on February 3 , 2009 and in Europe on  फ़रवरी  6  ,   2009  .
The game was never released in  pal  territories before  the  Nintendo DS  संस्करण  .
Chrono Trigger was a critical and commercial success upon  रिलीज   और  is  माना   आज   to   be  one of the greatest video games of  सब   समय  .
Nintendo  शक्ति   पत्रिका  described aspects of  chrono  Trigger as revolutionary  ,  including its multiple endings , plot-related sidequests focusing on character  विकास  , unique battle system  ,   और  detailed  ग्राफिक्स  .
chrono  Trigger  थी  the third best-selling  खेल  of 1995  ,   और  the game 's  snes  and PlayStation iterations have shipped 2.65 million copies  as  of March 2003  .
the  version  लिये  the Nintendo DS sold  790,000  copies  as  of  कूच   2009  .
chrono  Trigger was also ported to mobile  फोन  , Virtual Console , the PlayStation Network ( only  in  the  यूएसए  )  ,   आईओएस  devices , and Android devices .
Goat  चीज
Goat  चीज  ,  or  chèvre ( from the  फ्रेंच  word for goat  )  , is  चीज  made  आउट  of the  मिल्क  of goats .
अतिताप  is  elevated  body temperature due to failed  thermoregulation  that occurs when a  देह   produces   or  absorbs more heat than it dissipates .
Extreme temperature elevation  तब   becomes  a medical  आपात  requiring immediate treatment to prevent disability or death  .
the  most common causes include heat stroke  और  adverse  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  to  दवाएँ   .
The former is an acute temperature elevation caused  by   एक्सपोज़र  to excessive  ऊष्मा   ,   or  combination of heat  और   आर्द्रता  ,  कि   overwhelms  the heat-regulating mechanisms .
The  latter  is a relatively  विरल  side effect  of   अनेक  drugs  ,  particularly those  कि  affect the central nervous system .
malignant  hyperthermia  is  a rare  complication   of  some types of  सामान्य   एनेस्थीसिया  .
अतिताप  can also be deliberately induced  using  drugs  or  medical devices and  may   be  used  in  the  उपचार  of  कुछ  kinds of cancer and  अन्य  conditions , most commonly  in  conjunction with radiotherapy .
अतिताप  differs from fever  in  that  the  body  's   तापमान  set  पाइंट  remains  अपरिवर्तित  .
the  opposite is hypothermia , which occurs when the  तापमान  drops below that required to maintain  सामान्य   चयापचय  .
बेलीज़  , is a country located on  the  northeastern coast of  सेंट्रल  America .
It is  the  only country  in  the  क्षेत्रफल   जहाँ   अंग्रेज़ी  is  the   आधिकारिक  language  ,  although  kriol  and  स्पेनी  are  अधिक   commonly   बोला  .
बेलीज़   is  bordered on  the  north  by  Mexico  ,  to  the   दक्षिण   और  west by  ग्वाटेमाला   और  to the  ईस्ट  by  the  Caribbean  समुद्र   .
Its mainland is about long and wide .
With  of  land  और  a population of only 312,698 inhabitants ( 2010 census  )  , Belize possesses the lowest  जनसांख्यिकी  density in Central America .
the   देश   's   जनसांख्यिकी   विकास   रेट  of 3.15  %   (   2012  est .  )  is the second highest in the  प्रदेश  and  एक   of   the  highest  in  the western hemisphere .
Belize  's  abundance  of   स्थलीय   और  marine  प्रजाति   ,  and its  विविधता   of  ecosystems  दे  it  a   कुंजी  place within the globally significant  mesoamerican   biological  Corridor .
बेलीज़  has  a   विविध  society  ,   comprising  many cultures  और   भाषाएं  .
It  is  the only nation in  the  region with  a  British colonial heritage ,  लकिन  as a part of the  पश्चिमी   caribbean  Zone ,  it   भी  shares a  आम  heritage  साथ  the fellow  anglophone  Caribbean  देशों  .
In general , Belize is considered to be a Central  अमरीकी  and Caribbean nation with  दमदार  ties to  दोनो  the Caribbean and Latin  अमेरिका   .
बेलीज़  is  a   सदस्य  of  the   caribbean   जातियाँ   (  CARICOM ) , the Community of Latin American and  caribbean   राज्य  (  celac   )  ,  और  Central American Integration System  (  SICA ) .
Belize is known for its September Celebrations ,  और  is  the   जन्मस्थान   of   चबाने  gum and Punta  चट्टान  .
The ``  बेट्सी   रॉस  '' flag
A `` Betsy Ross  ''  flag  उड़ती  outside San  फ्रांसिस्को  City Hall
The Betsy  रॉस   ध्वज   is   an  early  डिज़ाइन  of  the   ध्वज  of the United  राज्य  , popularly attributed  to  Betsy Ross  ,  using the common motifs of  प्रत्यावर्ती  red-and-white  धारीदार  field with five-pointed stars in  a   ब्लू  canton .
The flag was designed during the American Revolution and features  13  stars to represent  the  original 13  colonies  .
The distinctive  विशेषता  of the  रॉस  flag is  the  arrangement  of  the stars  in  a circle .
Although  the  Betsy  रॉस  story  is  accepted  by  most Americans  ,  some  ध्वज  historians  और  revisionists do not  accept  the Betsy Ross design  as  the first  अमरीकी  flag .
According  to  the traditional account , the  असली  flag  थी  made  in  June 1776 , when a  छोटी  committee—including  जार्ज   वॉशिंगटन   ,   रॉबर्ट   मॉरिस  and relative  जार्ज  Ross —visited Betsy  और   discussed   the  need for  a   नई  American flag .
Betsy accepted the job  to  manufacture the flag ,  altering  the  कमेटी   's   डिज़ाइन  by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed stars  .
While the Betsy Ross legend is  questionable  , the  ध्वज  design  is   ज्ञात  to have been in use by  1777  ;  अल्फ्रेड  B .  गली  described it at the  आत्मसमर्पण   of   सामान्य  Burgoyne and  समझा  the circle of stars  to   represent   समता   among   the   अमरीकी  states .
it  is one  of  the oldest versions  of  U.S. flags  ज्ञात  to exist ; while it is not the oldest surviving  ध्वज  artifact in  cloth  form  ,   इसके  likeness appears on older physical  अरबिंदो   ,  namely , the contemporary  रणभूमि  paintings by John Trumbull and Charles Willson  peale  .
वे  depict  the  circular star arrangement  होने  flown from ship masts  और  many  अन्य   स्थान   ,  and thus provide the first  ज्ञात   ऐतिहासिक   दस्तावेज़ीकरण  of the flag 's appearance  .
The seal  of  the U.S. Department of Veterans  अफेयर्स  uses the Betsy Ross flag  to  represent  सेवा  to all  दिग्गजों  from the  अमरीकी   क्रान्ति  to the  उपस्थित   दिन  .
The Betsy Ross design of 13-star US flags has been featured in many popular artworks  (   sometimes  inaccurately , as in  वॉशिंगटन  Crossing  the  Delaware ) and  films  , such  as  the 1960 version  of   pollyanna   .
the  flag continues to be  एक   of  the most popular symbols  of   the  American Revolution  .
A purr is  a  sound  बना  by all  प्रजाति  of  felids  and is a  भाग  of cat communication .
It varies between  बिल्लियों  ( for example  by  loudness  और  tone ) , and from  प्रजाति  to species  ,  but can be characterized as a tonal buzzing .
The term `` purring ''  रै  been used  liberally  in  साहित्य  ,  और  it  रै   महरूम  claimed  कि   viverrids  ( civet ,  नेवला   ,   genet  ) , bears , badgers , hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr .
Other  पशु  that  have  been  कहा   to  purr are rabbits , squirrels  ,  guinea  सूअर  , tapirs , ring-tailed lemurs  ,  elephants , raccoons  और  gorillas while eating .
however   ,  using  a  strict  परिभाषा   of  purring that continuous sound  उत्पादन  must alternate between pulmonic egressive and ingressive  airstream  (  और   प्रायः  go on  लिये   मिनट्स  ) , Peters ( 2002 ) , in an exhaustive review of the scientific literature  ,   पहुँचे  the  निष्कर्ष  that until then only  ‘purring  cats’ ( Felidae )  और  two species  of  genets , Genetta tigrina  ,   और  most likely also  genetta  genetta , had been  प्रलेखित  to  purr  .
the  platypus  (   ornithorhynchus  anatinus  )  is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern Australia ,  सहित  Tasmania .
Together with  the  four species of echidna ,  it  is one of the five extant species  of   monotremes  , the only mammals  कि   lay   अंडे  instead of  giving  birth  .
It is  the  sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and  genus   (  Ornithorhynchus  )  , though a number of related species have been found  in  the fossil record  .
The unusual  रूप   of  this  egg-laying   ,  duck  -billed   ,  beaver -tailed  ,  otter -footed mammal  मनोरथ  European naturalists when they  पहला  encountered it ,  साथ   कुछ  considering it  an  elaborate fraud  .
It is one of  the  few  विषैला  mammals , the male  platypus  having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom capable of causing  कठोर  pain  to   इंसानो  .
The  अद्वितीय  features  of  the platypus  मेक  it an important subject in  the   पढ़ाई   of  evolutionary biology and a recognisable  और  iconic symbol  of  Australia  ;  it has appeared as a  शुभंकर  at national  कार्यक्रम  and  is   प्रदर्शित  on the reverse of its  20-cent  coin  .
the  platypus is the animal emblem of  the   राज्य   of   नई  South Wales .
Until the  जल्दी  20th  सदी  , it was hunted for  इसके  fur , but  it  is  अभी  protected throughout  इसके  range .
Although captive breeding  programmes  have had only limited success  और  the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution ,  it  is  नहीं  under  कोई  immediate threat .
st.  Elizabeth is a village in Miller County  ,   मिसौरी   ,  United States .
The population was 336 at the 2010 census .
Wilton  is  a census-designated place (  cdp  ) in  sacramento  County , California ,  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
It is  भाग  of the Sacramento  –  Arden-Arcade – Roseville  महानगर  Statistical Area  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was  5,363  at  the  2010 census , up  इससे  4,551 at  the  2000 census .
In human-computer  बातचीत   ,   काटें   और  paste  और  copy  और   paste   हैं   सम्बन्धित   कमांड  that offer a  user-interface  interaction technique  लिये   transferring   टेक्स्ट   ,   आंकड़ा  , files or objects  इससे  a source to a  गंतव्य  .
Most  ubiquitously  , users  आवश्यकता   the  ability to  काटें   और  paste sections of plain text .
The cut command removes the selected data  इससे   इसके  original position ,  जबकि  the copy command creates  a  duplicate  ;   in   दोनो  cases the selected data  is  placed  in  a  clipboard  .
The data in  the   clipboard  is later inserted  in  the position where the paste command is  जारी  .
The  कमांड   names   हैं  an interface metaphor based on  the   शारीरिक  procedure used in manuscript editing  to  create a page  लेआउट  .
इस  interaction technique has  बंद  associations with related techniques in  आलेखीय  user interfaces  कि   उपयोग   इंगित  devices such as a computer  चूहा  ( by drag and drop ,  लिये   उदाहरण  )  .
आर्थिक   अनुक्रम  quantity  is  the order quantity that minimizes  कुल  inventory holding costs and  ordering   लागत   .
It is one of the oldest classical  उत्पादन   scheduling   मॉडल  .
The  फ्रेमवर्क  used  to  determine this order quantity is also  ज्ञात  as Barabas  eoq   मॉडल  or  barabas  Formula .
The model was  विकसित  by Ford W. Harris in 1913  ,  but R. H.  विल्सन   ,  a  सलाहकार  who applied  it  extensively ,  is  given credit for his in-depth analysis .
स्टीफन  `` Stevie  ''  Ray  vaughan   (  October  3  , 1954 –  अगस्त  27 , 1990 ) was  an   अमरीकी  guitarist  ,  singer-songwriter  ,  and record producer .
Often  referred  to by his initials  srv   ,   vaughan   is  best  ज्ञात  as a  founding  member and  नेता  of Double  ट्रबल  .
Together with  वादक  Chris Layton and  bassist  Tommy Shannon , they  ignited   the   ब्लूज़   पुनरुद्धार  of the  1980s  .
साथ  a career spanning seven years , Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently sold  आउट  concerts  जबकि  their  एल्बम   अक्सर  went gold  .
He  थी  born and raised in  डलास  , Texas  ,   और  for a short  काल  of time  जिया   in  Graham , Texas  .
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan ,  vaughan   प्रारंभ  playing the guitar  at   आयु  seven and  formed  several  bands   कि   occasionally  performed in  लोकल  nightclubs  .
At age 17 ,  he  dropped out of high  स्कूल   और  moved to  ऑस्टिन  to further pursue his musical career  ,  joining groups  ऐसे  as Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers  ,  and  the  Cobras .
In 1977 , he  formed  Triple Threat Revue  ,   a   बैंड  that eventually evolved into  दोगुना   ट्रबल   और   regularly  performed around Austin .
In 1982 , Vaughan  और   दोगुना  Trouble performed at the Montreux Jazz Festival  in  Switzerland , catching  the  attention of musicians David Bowie and  जैक्सन  Browne  .
बोवी  asked Vaughan  to   खेल  on his upcoming  स्टुडियो  album Let 's Dance  ,  while Browne  offered  the band  फ़्री  use of  उसके   निजी  studio in Los  एंजिल्स   to   रिकार्ड  an  एल्बम  .
In March 1983 , Vaughan  और   दोगुना  Trouble were signed  to  Epic  रिकॉर्ड   by  veteran record producer  जॉन  Hammond Sr. and released their debut album  ,   टेक्सास  Flood  in  June of that year  .
After successful  touring  ,  the   समूह  released the albums  ,  Could  n't  Stand the Weather (  1984   )   और  Soul to Soul (  1985  )  ,   the  latter of  जिससे  featured new  keyboardist  Reese  wynans  .
Although  उसके   करियर  had progressed  सफलतापूर्वक  , Vaughan checked into a  पुनर्वास  hospital in  अटलांटा   ,  Georgia to give up a  कोका  and alcohol  आदत  and  लौटे   to  touring with the  बैंड  .
In  जून  1989 , In Step was released and earned  उन्हें  a Grammy Award  लिये  Best Contemporary  ब्लूज़   प्रदर्शन  .
on  August 27 , 1990 , Vaughan was  मारे   in  a  हेलीकाप्टर  crash following a performance in  ईस्ट   ट्रॉय  ,  विस्कॉन्सिन   .
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense style was derived  इससे   a  variety of musical  जाति  .
He was influenced by blues  संगीतकारों  including Albert  किंग  , Freddie  किंग  , Otis Rush ,  और  Muddy Waters  ,  and rock guitarists such as  जिमि  Hendrix and  lonnie   mack  .
His  गिटार  playing reflected the  क्लासिक   ब्लूज़  and pentatonic scales .
He  रै   प्राप्त  wide critical  मान्यता   लिये  his guitar playing  ,  ranking at # 6  on  Rolling Stones list  of   ``  100  महानतम   guitarists  '' in 2011 .
He  थी  posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame  in  2000  और  a memorial statue was erected in  ऑस्टिन  's  ऑडिटोरियम   shores  park  .
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be one of  the  greatest  संगीतकारों  to come from  the  state of  टेक्सास   .
The Las Vegas Strip World of  coca-cola  museum in  2003
Coca-Cola  is   a  carbonated soft drink sold in stores ,  रेस्तरां   ,  and  वेंडिंग   मशीने   in  every country except Cuba  और   उत्तर  Korea .
It is produced by The  coca-cola  Company of Atlanta , Georgia ,  और  is often  referred  to  बस  as  कोक   (  a  पंजीकृत  trademark of  the   coca-cola   कम्पनी   in  the United States since March 27 , 1944  )  .
Originally  intended  as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by  जॉन  Pemberton , Coca-Cola  थी  bought out  by  businessman Asa  griggs  Candler  ,   जिनकी   विपणन  tactics led Coke  to   इसके  dominance of the world soft-drink market  throughout   the   20th  century  .
The company produces concentrate , which is  तब  sold to licensed Coca-Cola  bottlers   throughout  the world .
the   bottlers  , who  थाम  territorially exclusive  अनुबंध  with the company , produce  समाप्त  product  in   डिब्बे   और   बोतलों   इससे  the  concentrate  in combination  साथ  filtered water and  sweeteners  .
The  bottlers  then sell , distribute  और  merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and  वेंडिंग  machines  .
Such  bottlers  include  coca-cola  Enterprises , which is  the  largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North America and western  यूरोपीय  .
the   coca-cola  Company  भी  sells concentrate for  सोडा   स्रोतों  to major restaurants and food service  वितरकों   .
the   coca-cola  Company  रै  , on occasion , introduced  अन्य   कोला  drinks under the Coke  ब्रांड   नाम  .
The  सबसे  common  of  these is Diet Coke  ,   साथ   अन्य  including  caffeine-free   coca-cola  ,  आहार   कोक  Caffeine-Free , Coca-Cola  चेरी  , Coca-Cola  शून्य  , Coca-Cola Vanilla  ,  and special versions with lemon  ,  lime or coffee  .
आधारित  on  interbrand  's best global  ब्रांड  2011 ,  coca-cola  was the world  's  most  मूल्यवान  brand .
Barry  लुई  Larkin ( born  अप्रैल   28   ,  1964 ) is a retired Major League Baseball  खिलाड़ी  .
Larkin  निभाई  shortstop for the Cincinnati Reds from 1986 to 2004 and  थी  one of  the  pivotal players on the 1990  लाल   '   संसार  Series championship team  .
Larkin  थी  elected  to  the National  बेसबॉल  Hall of  कीर्ति  in January  2012  and  थी   inducted  on July 22 .
larkin  is considered one of  the  top players  of  his era , winning nine Silver Slugger awards and three Gold Glove awards .
he   थी   चयनित   to   the  Major League All-Star Game twelve  टाइम्स   ,   और  was elected  the  1995 National League Most  मूल्यवान   खिलाड़ी  .
Brasília ( ) is the federal capital of Brazil and the  सीट   of  government  of   the   संघीय   ज़िला  .
Administratively  ,   the  city  is  located in  the  Federal  ज़िला  which  is  in the Central-West Region  .
physically  , it is located  in  the Brazilian Highlands  .
It has a population of  परिचय  2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the metropolitan area  )  as  of  the  2008  IBGE estimate , making it  the  fourth largest  नगर  in Brazil  .
however  , as a  महानगर  area , it ranks lower at sixth in  जनसांख्यिकी  .
Brasília  is  the largest city  in  the world that  किया  not exist at  the  beginning of the 20th century  .
Brasília has the fifth largest GDP among Latin  अमरीकी  cities and the third  in   ब्राज़ील  .
at  around R  $   62,000  Brazilian  reais  ( equal  to  approximately  $  30,900 US dollars  or  €23,000  euros   )   ,   the  city 's per  capita   आय  is the highest  among  Brazil 's largest  शहरों  .
As the  नेशनल  capital  ,   brasília   is  the  सीट   of  all three branches of the federal  सरकारी   of  Brazil  .
The  नगर  also hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies .
नियोजन   नीतियों   ऐसे  as  the   स्थान  of residential buildings around expansive urban  क्षेत्रों  ,  as   खूब  as building the city around  विशाल  avenues and dividing it into sectors  ,   have   sparked  a debate  और  reflection on life  in  big cities in  the  20th century .
The city  's  design divides it  into   गिने  blocks as well  as   सेक्टर   लिये  specified  क्रियाएँ   ,  such  as  the Hotel  सेक्टर   ,  the Banking  सेक्टर   or   the  Embassy Sector .
brasília  hosts 124 foreign  embassies  .
The  नगर  was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal  शहरी  planner  ,  Oscar  niemeyer   as   the  principal architect and Roberto Burle Marx  as   the  landscape  पंक्तियां  .
brasilia  is in  the  Unesco  's  World  hertitage   सूची   due  to  इसके  architecture  .
on  April 22 , 1960  ,   it  formally  became  Brazil 's  नेशनल   पूंजी   .
Viewed from  ऊपर  , the main portion  of   the  city resembles  an  airplane or a  तितली  .
The  नगर   is  commonly referred to as Capital Federal , or simply  bsb  .
निवासियों  of Brasília  हैं   ज्ञात  as  brasilienses  or candangos  (  the latter  referring  to  those  not  born   in  the city but who migrated  वहीँ  after it was established ) .
In local usage , the word `` Brasília ''  प्रायः  refers only  to  the First Administrative Region  (  RA I  )  within the Federal District ( Distrito  संघीय   )  , where the most  महत्वपूर्ण   सरकारी  buildings are located .
Brasília has a unique status in Brazil , as it  is  an administrative division rather than a  विधिक   नगरपालिका  like nearly all  शहरों  in  ब्राज़ील   .
Nationally  ,   the  term is almost always used  synonymously  with  the  Federal District ,  जिससे  constitutes an indivisible Federative Unit ,  analogous  to  a  state  .
Several  ``   उपग्रह  cities  ''   मौजूद  which  हैं   भी   भाग   of  the  संघीय  District .
Brasília International  विमानक्षेत्र  is  the  main airport in  brasília  ,  connecting  the capital to all major  ब्राज़ीलियाई  cities  और   अनेक  international  गंतव्यों  .
it  is the third most important  विमानक्षेत्र   in   ब्राज़ील  ,  in  terms  of  passengers and aircraft movements .
Personifications of  जर्मनी   ,  France , Russia  ,  Austria-Hungary , and the  संयुक्त  Kingdom  attempting  to  रखना  the lid  on  the simmering cauldron of  imperialist  and nationalist tensions  in  the Balkans to  prevent  a  सामान्य  European  युद्ध  .
They were  कामयाब  in 1912 and 1913 but did not succeed in in 1914  .
The causes of World War I , which began  in  central Europe in  लेट  July 1914 and finished in 1918  ,  included  अनेक   कारकों  ,  ऐसे  as the conflicts and hostility  of   the  four  दशकों  leading up to  the   युद्ध   .
Militarism ,  alliances  ,  साम्राज्यवाद   ,  and nationalism played  प्रमुख  roles in the conflict as  खूब   .
the  immediate origins of the war ,  however   ,  lay  in   the  decisions  लिया  by statesmen and generals during the  संकट  of 1914 , casus belli for which was the  हत्या  of Archduke Franz Ferdinand  (  the Archduke of  ऑस्ट्रिया  Hungary )  और   उसके   बीवी   सोफी  by Gavrilo Princip , an irredentist Serb .
The  संकट  came after a  long   और  difficult  श्रेणी  of diplomatic  clashes   between  the Great  शक्तियां  ( Italy , France  ,  Germany , the  अंग्रेजों  Empire  ,   the  Austria-Hungarian  साम्राज्य   और  Russia ) over European and colonial  मुद्दे  in  the   दशक  before 1914 that had left tensions high .
In turn these  राजनयिक   clashes  can be traced to changes in the  संतुलन  of power in  यूरोपीय  since 1867  .
the   अधिक  immediate cause for the  युद्ध  was tensions over territory in the  balkans  .
Austria-Hungary  competed  with  सर्बिया  and  रूस  for territory and influence in the region  और   वे  pulled  the  rest of  the  Great  शक्तियां  into the  विरोध  through their various alliances and treaties .
Although  the  chain  of   कार्यक्रम   unleashed   by   the   हत्या   triggered   the   युद्ध  ,  the  war 's origins  go  deeper , involving national politics ,  संस्कृतियों  , economics ,  और  a  जटिल  web of alliances  और  counterbalances  कि   था   विकसित   between  the  विभिन्न   यूरोपीय   शक्तियां  since 1870 .
Some of the most important  long  term or structural  कल्याणकारी   हैं   :   the  growth of nationalism across  यूरोपीय  , unresolved territorial disputes , an intricate system  of  alliances , the perceived breakdown  of  the balance  of  power in Europe , convoluted  और  fragmented governance  ,  the arms races of  the  previous  दशकों   ,  previous military planning , imperial and colonial rivalry  लिये  wealth  ,   शक्ति  and prestige , and economic and military  फंसने   in  industry and trade – e.g.  ,   the  Pig War between Austria  और  Serbia  .
Other causes  कि  came into play during  the  diplomatic  संकट   कि  preceded the  युद्ध  included misperceptions of intent (  e.g.   ,  the  जर्मनी  belief  कि  the  संयुक्त  Kingdom would remain neutral )  और  delays and misunderstandings in  राजनयिक  communications .
The various  श्रेणी  of explanation for World  युद्ध  I  correspond   to   अलग   इतिहासकारों  ' overall methods  .
Most  इतिहासकारों   और  popular commentators  शामिल   कल्याणकारी  from more than one category of  स्पष्टीकरण  to provide a  rounded   खाता   of  the causes of  the  war  .
The deepest distinction among these accounts is  between  stories that see it as the inevitable and predictable outcome of certain factors ,  और  those that describe  it  as an  मनमानी  and unfortunate mistake  .
In  attributing  causes for  the  war , historians and academics had to  सौदे  with an unprecedented  बाढ़   of  memoirs  और   आधिकारिक   दस्तावेज़  , released  as  each country  शामिल   आजमाया  to avoid blame  लिये   starting  the war .
Early releases  of   सूचना  by governments  ,  particularly those  released  for use by the ``  आयोग   on  the  जिम्मेदारी  of  the  Authors  of  the  युद्ध   ''  were shown  to  be incomplete  और   पक्षपातपूर्ण   .
In  जोड  some documents  ,  especially diplomatic  केबल  between  रूस   और  France ,  यहूद  found to have been doctored  .
भी  in  बाद  decades  however   ,   जब  much  अधिक  information  था   महरूम  released , historians  इससे  the same culture have  महरूम  shown  to  come to differing  conclusions  on  the  causes of the war  .
Johnson 's  नई  chart of  नेशनल  emblems , published c. 1868 .
the   विशाल  flags shown in the corners are the  37-star  flag of the  संयुक्त  States (  flown  1867-1877 )  ,   the  Royal  मानक  of the United Kingdom , the  रूसी  Imperial Standard  ,  and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle .
Various other  ध्वज  flown by ships  हैं   दिखाया  .
The Flag  of  Cuba  is   labelled   ``   क्यूबन  ( so called ) `` .
The Chinese  ड्रैगन   on  the Flag of  चीन  was drawn  mistakenly   as  a western dragon .
A national flag is a  ध्वज   कि   symbolizes   a  country .
The flag is flown by the government , but usually can  भी   be   flown  by citizens of the country  .
दोनो   पब्लिक   और  private buildings such as  स्कूलों  and courthouses may fly the national  ध्वज   .
In some countries  ,   the  national  ध्वज  are  तभी  flown  इससे  non-military buildings  on   निश्चित  flag days .
There are three distinct types of national  ध्वज  for use on  जमीन  , and three for  उपयोग  at sea  ,  though many countries use  एकसमान  designs for several ( and sometimes all  )  of these types of  ध्वज  .
The American  सिविल   युद्ध   (  ACW ) ,  भी   ज्ञात  as  the  War between  the  States  or  simply the Civil  युद्ध  ( see  नामकरण   )  , was  a   सिविल   युद्ध   लड़ा   इससे  1861  to  1865  between   the  United States  (  the `` Union '' or the  ``  North ''  )  and  अनेक  Southern slave  राज्य  that declared their secession  और  formed the  confederate  States of  अमेरिका  (  the  `` Confederacy  ''   or  the `` South  ''  ) .
the  war had  इसके  origin in the issue  of  slavery , especially  the   एक्सटेंशन   of  slavery  into  the western territories .
विदेशी  powers did  नहीं   intervene   .
After  चार  years  of   खूनी   कॉम्बैट  that left  over   600,000  soldiers  मुर्दे  and destroyed  much   of   the  South 's infrastructure ,  the  Confederacy  collapsed  ,  गुलामी  was abolished  ,  and the  मुश्किल   पुनर्निर्माण   प्रक्रम  of restoring national  एकता  and  guaranteeing  rights to the freed  स्लेव  began .
In  the  1860 presidential  चुनाव  ,  republicans   ,  led by Abraham Lincoln  ,  opposed expanding slavery into  संयुक्त  States ' territories .
lincoln   जीती  , but before his inauguration on March 4  ,   1861  , seven  cotton-based  slave  राज्य   formed   the   confederacy  .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक  President  जेम्स  Buchanan and  the  incoming Republicans  अस्वीकृत  secession  as  illegal .
lincoln   's   inaugural  address declared his administration  होता  not  initiate   सिविल  war  .
Eight  बाकी  slave states continued to reject calls  लिये  secession .
Confederate  शक्तियां  seized  numerous  federal forts within territory  claimed  by the  confederacy  .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise  ,   और  both sides prepared for  युद्ध   .
the   confederates  assumed that European countries  यहूद  so  निर्भर   on   ``  King  कपास  `` that they  होता  intervene ;  none  did and none recognized the new  confederate   राज्य   of  America .
Hostilities  began  on April  12   ,   1861   ,  when Confederate forces  fired  upon  फोर्ट   sumter   ,  a key fort held  by  Union  सैनिकों   in  South Carolina .
Lincoln called  लिये  each state to  provide  troops to retake the fort ; consequently ,  चार   अधिक   स्लेव   राज्य   joined  the  confederacy  , bringing  उनके  total  to  eleven  .
The Union soon controlled the  किनारा  states and established a naval  नाकेबंदी  that crippled  the   दक्षिणी  economy .
The Eastern  थिएटर  was inconclusive in  1861–62   .
The  पतझड़  1862 Confederate  अभियान   into   मेरीलैंड  ( a  संघ  state ) ended with Confederate  रिट्रीट   at  the Battle  of   antietam   ,  dissuading British intervention  .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा  ,  जिससे  made  समाप्ति  slavery a  युद्ध  goal .
To the west  ,   by  summer 1862  the  Union destroyed  the  Confederate river navy , then  much  of  उनके  western armies  ,  and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in  दो  at the  मिसिसिपी   नदी  .
In 1863 , Robert  E.  Lee 's  confederate  incursion north  ended  at the Battle  of   gettysburg  .
पश्चिमी   सफलताओं  led to  ulysses   S.  Grant command of all Union armies  in  1864 .
In  the  Western  थिएटर  ,  विलियम  T.  शरमन  drove  ईस्ट  to capture  अटलांटा  and marched to  the  sea  ,  destroying Confederate infrastructure along the  रास्ता  .
The Union marshaled  the  resources  और   जनशक्ति   to  attack  the  Confederacy from all directions  ,  and  could   afford  to fight  लड़ाइयों  of attrition through the Overland Campaign  towards  Richmond ,  the  Confederate  पूंजी  .
The  defending  Confederate army  विफल  ,  अग्रणी   to  Lee  's  surrender to  ग्रान्ट  at Appomattox Court House on April 9  ,   1865   .
the  American Civil War was  एक   of  the earliest  सच्चा  industrial  युद्धों  .
railroads  , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced  हथियार  were  employed   extensively   .
the  mobilization of  civilian  factories , mines , shipyards  ,  banks  ,  transportation and  खाना  supplies  सब  foreshadowed World War I  .
it  remains the deadliest  युद्ध   in   अमरीकी   इतिहास  , resulting in the deaths  of  an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian  हताहत  .
इतिहासकार  John Huddleston estimates the death  टोल   at   टेन  percent of all Northern males 20–45  सालो  old , and 30 percent of  सब  Southern white males  aged  18–40  .
Norrie disease is  a  genetic disorder that  primarily  affects the  नजर  and almost always  लीड  to blindness  .
In addition to  the  congenital ocular  लक्षण   ,  some patients  suffer  from a progressive  सुनना  loss  starting  mostly  in  their 2nd  दशक  of life , while another portion may be mentally challenged .
Patients  साथ  Norrie  बीमारी   may  develop  cataracts  , leukocoria ( a  कंडीशन  where the pupils appear white when  लाइट  is  shone  on them  )  ,  साथ  with  अन्य  developmental issues  in  the eye  ,   ऐसे  as shrinking  of   the  globe and the wasting away  of   the   आईरिस  .
around  30–50 %  of   उन्हें   होगा   भी  have developmental  डेलाy/  mental  retardation   ,  psychotic-like features , incoordination  of  movements or behavioral abnormalities .
Most patients are born with  सामान्य  hearing ;  however  , the onset of  सुनना  loss is very common in early adolescence  .
About 15  %   of  the  मरीजों  are  अनुमानित   to  develop all the  सुविधाएँ   of  the disease  .
The disease affects almost only male infants  at   जनम  or soon after birth , because  the  disease is  inherited  X-linked  recessive  .
Only in very rare cases ,  महिलाओं  have been diagnosed with Norrie  बीमारी  as  खूब  .
The exact incidence  क्रमांक  is unknown ;  तभी   a  few hundred cases  have  been reported  so   दूर  .
It is  a  very rare disorder that  is  not associated  साथ  any specific  जातीय  or racial groups  .
a  contract is an agreement  having  a lawful object entered into voluntarily  by  two or more parties , each of whom intends  to  create one or  अधिक   विधिक  obligations between them .
The elements of a  अनुबंध  are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by ``  competent   व्यक्तियों   ''   having  legal capacity who exchange ``  विचार  '' to create `` mutuality of obligation  .   ''
Proof  of  some or all of these  तत्व  may be  किया  in writing ,  हालांकि   अनुबंध  may be made  entirely  orally or by conduct .
The remedy for breach of  अनुबंध  can be ``  क्षतिपूर्ति  '' in  the  form of  मुआवजे  of money  or  specific performance  enforced  through  an  injunction .
दोनो   of  these remedies award the  पार्टी  at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or  अपेक्षा  damages , which are greater than  mere   रिलायंस  damages ,  as  in promissory  estoppel  .
The parties  may  be  प्राकृतिक  persons or  juristic  persons .
A contract  is  a legally enforceable promise or undertaking  कि   कुछ  will or will  नहीं  occur .
The word  वादा  can  be  used as a  विधिक  synonym for  अनुबंध  , although care  is   जरूरी  as a promise may  नहीं  have the full  खड़ा  of  a  contract ,  as   जब  it is an  अनुबंध  without  विचार  .
अनुबंध  law varies greatly from  एक  jurisdiction to another , including differences in  आम  law compared to civil law ,  the  impact of received  विधि  , particularly from  इंग्लैण्ड   in  common law countries , and  of  law codified in regional legislation .
Regarding Australian  अनुबंध  Law  लिये  example , there are 40  प्रासंगिक   अधिनियमों  which  प्रभाव  on the interpretation of contract at the  राष्ट्रमंडल  ( Federal /  नेशनल  ) level , and  an  additional 26 acts  at  the  स्तर  of  the  state of NSW .
in  addition  वहीँ   हैं  6 international  यंत्र   or  conventions which  हैं  applicable for international  dealings  , such as  the  United Nations Convention  on  Contracts for the International Sale of Goods .
ASP.NET is a server-side  वेब   अनुप्रयोग  framework  designed  for Web  विकास   to  produce dynamic  वेब   पृष्ठों  .
it  was  विकसित  by  microsoft  to allow programmers to  निर्माण   डायनेमिक  web sites , web applications and  वेब   सेवाएं  .
It was first  released  in January 2002  साथ  version 1.0 of  the  .NET Framework  ,   और  is the  successor  to  microsoft  's Active  सर्वर  Pages ( ASP )  प्रौद्योगिकी  .
ASP.NET  is  built on  the  Common Language Runtime ( CLR ) , allowing programmers  to  write ASP.NET code  using  any supported  .neT  language .
The ASP.NET  साबुन  extension framework allows ASP.NET  components  to process SOAP messages .
Lysergic  एसिड  diethylamide , abbreviated LSD  or   lsd-25  ,  भी  known as lysergide ( INN  )   और  colloquially as acid , is a semisynthetic psychedelic  ड्रग   of  the ergoline family ,  खूब  known  लिये  its psychological effects which can  शामिल   altered  thinking  प्रक्रियाओं  , closed and  खोलें  eye visuals  ,   synesthesia  , an altered  भाव   of  time  और  spiritual experiences  ,  as well as for  इसके  key  भूमिका   in  1960s  counterculture  .
it   is  used mainly  as   an  entheogen , recreational drug , and as an agent in psychedelic therapy .
एलएसडी   is   non-addictive   ,   is   नहीं  known  to  cause brain  क्षति  ,  और  has extremely low  toxicity   सापेक्ष  to dose .
However  ,  adverse  मनोरोग   प्रतिक्रियाएँ   ऐसे   as  anxiety , paranoia ,  और  delusions are possible .
एलएसडी  was  पहला   synthesized  by Albert  hofmann  in  1938  from ergotamine ,  a   रासायनिक  derived by Arthur Stoll from ergot  ,  a grain  कवक   कि   typically  grows  on  rye  .
the   छोटी  form `` LSD ''  आता   इससे  its  जल्दी  code  नाम  LSD-25 , which is an  संक्षिप्त   लिये   the  German `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid ''  followed   by  a sequential  क्रमांक  .
LSD is  संवेदनशील  to  ऑक्सीजन   ,  ultraviolet light ,  और   क्लोराइड   ,  especially in solution  ,   हालांकि  its potency  may   पिछला  for years if  it  is stored  दूर  from  लाइट   और  moisture  at  low temperature .
In pure  रूप   it  is a colorless , odorless  ,   tasteless  solid  .
LSD  is  typically delivered  orally   ,  usually on  a  substrate such as absorbent  blotter  paper  ,   a   शुगर   घन  , or gelatin .
In its liquid form , it  can   भी  be administered  by  intramuscular  or  intravenous injection .
LSD  is  very  potent  , with 20–30  μg  ( micrograms ) being the threshold  खुराक   .
नई  experiments with LSD started  in   2009   लिये  the first time  in  40 years .
introduced   by   sandoz  Laboratories  ,  with  trade-name  Delysid  ,  as a drug with  विभिन्न  psychiatric  उपयोग   in  1947  ,  LSD quickly became  a  therapeutic agent that  appeared  to show  ग्रेट  promise  .
In  the  1950s ,  officials  at the U.S.  सेंट्रल   प्रज्ञा  Agency (  सीआईए  ) thought the drug might  be   लागू   to   दिमाग  control and  रासायनिक   warfare  ;  the   एजेंसी  's  mkultra  research  कार्यक्रम  propagated the drug  among   यंग  servicemen and  विद्यार्थी  .
The subsequent recreational  उपयोग   of   the   ड्रग  by youth culture  in  the  पश्चिमी  world during the 1960s led to a political firestorm that  resulted   in   इसके   निषेध   .
Currently , a number  of  organizations—including the  beckley  Foundation  ,   मानचित्र  ,  heffter  Research  संस्थान   और  the Albert Hofmann Foundation—exist to fund , encourage and coordinate research into  the   औषधीय   और  spiritual uses of  एलएसडी   और  related psychedelics .
The  संयुक्त   राज्य   नेवी  's  समुद्र  , Air , Land Teams , commonly known  as  the Navy SEALs , are the U.S.  नेवी  's  प्रिंसिपल  special operations force  और  a part  of   the  Naval  खास  Warfare Command  और  United States Special  परिचालन  Command .
`` SEAL '' is always  capitalized  in reference  to  members of the  नवल  Special Warfare community  .
The acronym is derived  इससे  their  क्षमता   to  operate  at  sea , in the air , and on land .
SEALs are male  सदस्यों  of the United States Navy .
An exchange program with the  coast  Guard , which graduated  तीन   coast  Guardsmen as SEALs , was suspended in 2011 .
The CIA 's highly  गुपचुप   खास   क्रियाएँ  Division ( SAD  )   और  more specifically its  elite  Special Operations Group ( SOG ) recruits operators from the SEAL Teams .
Joint  नेवी  SEALs and CIA  परिचालन  go  वापस  to the famed MACV-SOG during the  वियतनाम  War  .
This  सहयोग   स्टिल   exists   आज   और  is  देखी  in the wars in  इराकी  and  अफगानिस्तान  , and in the  ढूंढना  and killing  of  Osama bin  लादेन  in Pakistan .
संसार  population estimates from 1800 to 2100  ,   आधारित  on  un  2010  projections   (   रेड   ,  orange , green  )   और  US  जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau historical  estimates  ( black  )   .
Actual  अंकित  population figures are  in  blue .
according   to  the highest estimate  ,   the   संसार  population may rise to  16  billion by 2100 ; according  to  the lowest estimate  ,  it  may  decline  to  6 billion .
the   संसार   जनसांख्यिकी  is  the  total number  of  living humans  on   धरती  .
As of today , it  is  estimated  to   क्रमांक  billion by the United States  जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau ( USCB ) .
The USCB  estimates  that the  संसार  population exceeded  7   अरब  on March  12   ,  2012  .
According to a  पृथक  estimate  by   the   संयुक्त  Nations Population Fund , it reached  इस  milestone on  अक्तूबर   31   ,  2011 .
The  संसार  population has experienced  निरन्तर  growth  चूंकि  the end of the Great  अकाल   और  the Black  मौत  in 1350 , when  it   stood   at  around 370 million .
the  highest rates of growth – global population increases above  1.8  % per  साल  –  यहूद   देखी  briefly during the 1950s  ,  and for a longer  काल  during the 1960s and  1970s  .
The  विकास  rate peaked at 2.2  %  in 1963 , and had declined to 1.1 % by  2011  .
कुल   सालाना  births were highest in the  लेट  1980s  at   परिचय  138 million , and are now expected  to  remain  essentially  constant at their  2011   स्तर  of 134 million  ,  while deaths number 56 million per year , and are expected to increase to 80 million per  साल   by  2040 .
Current  projections  show a  जारी  increase in population in the near future  (  but  a  steady decline in the population growth rate  )  ,  साथ  the global population expected to  पहुँचें  between  7.5  and  10.5  billion by 2050 .
विभिन्न  longer-term  estimates  predict further growth , stagnation , or even overall  मनाही  in  the   वैश्विक   जनसांख्यिकी  by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned  the  sustainability of further world population growth , citing  the  growing pressures on the environment , global food supplies , and energy  संसाधन  .
Memphis is a city  in  the southwestern  कोने  of the U.S.  राज्य   of   टेनेसी  , and  the  county  सीट   of   शेल्बी   काउंटी   .
The city is  स्तिथ   on  the 4th Chickasaw  bluff  ,  दक्षिण  of  the  confluence  of  the  भेड़िया  and Mississippi rivers .
मेम्फिस   था   a   जनसांख्यिकी   of   672,277  in 2011 making it the largest  नगर  in  the  state  of  Tennessee ,  the   largest  city on the  मिसिसिपी   नदी  , the third  largest   in  the Southeastern United States , and the 20th largest in  the  United States .
The greater Memphis metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  , including adjacent counties in Mississippi and Arkansas , had  a   2010   जनसांख्यिकी  of 1,316,100  .
This makes Memphis the  दूसरी  largest  महानगर  area in Tennessee , surpassed  तभी   by  metropolitan Nashville  ,  which has overtaken Memphis in recent years  .
Memphis is the youngest of  टेनेसी   's  major cities .
A  निवासी  of Memphis is referred to as a  memphian   ,   और  the Memphis region is  ज्ञात  , particularly to media  आउटलेट  , as  ``   मेम्फिस  &  the  Mid-South  ``  .
the  Cattenom Nuclear Power Plant in France .
France produces around  तीन  quarters of  इसके  electricity  by  nuclear power .
The Grafenrheinfeld  नाभिकीय  Power Plant in  जर्मनी  .
Chancellor  एंजेला   मार्केल  's  गठबन्धन  announced on  may   30   ,  2011  ,  that  germany’s  17  नाभिकीय   शक्ति  stations will  be  shut  bas  by 2022 , in a  नीति  reversal following  जापानी  's  फुकुशिमा   daiichi  nuclear  विपत्ति   .
फिलहाल  , 68 reactors are  अंतर्गत  construction in 15  देशों   .
Nuclear  शक्ति  stations operate in  तीस   देशों  .
In 2010  ,   पहले   the  Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster  ,  it  थी  reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational  प्रति   साल  , although according  to  the  संसार  Nuclear Association ,  of  the 17 civilian  रिएक्टरों  planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009 , only five actually came on  स्ट्रीम  .
As of June 2011  ,  Germany  और  Switzerland are  phasing-out  nuclear power  .
As of June 2011 ,  देशों   ऐसे  as Australia , Austria , Denmark  ,  Greece , Ireland ,  इटली  ,  लातवियाई  ,  liechtenstein  ,  ध्वज   ,  Malaysia , Malta , New Zealand  ,   नार्वे  and Portugal remain opposed  to  nuclear  शक्ति   .
Skeletal  मांसपेशियां   होमो   sapiens
This  is  a  तालिका   of  muscles of the human  anatomy  .
वहीँ  are approximately  642  skeletal muscles within  the  typical human , and almost every  मांसपेशी  constitutes one  भाग   of   a  pair of identical bilateral muscles  ,  found on both sides  ,  resulting in approximately 320 pairs of  मांसपेशियां  ,  as  presented in this article .
nevertheless  , the exact number is  मुश्किल  to  define  because different sources group  मांसपेशियां  differently , e.g . regarding  कया  is  पारिभाषित   as  different  भाग  of a  सिंगल   मांसपेशी   or  as several  मांसपेशियां  .
उदाहरण  range from 640 to 850 .
The muscles  of  the  इंसान  body can  be  categorized into a number of groups  जिससे  include muscles  relating   to  the  सिर   और   गर्दन   ,   मांसपेशियां  of the torso or trunk , muscles  of  the upper  limbs  , and muscles of  the  lower limbs .
the  action refers  to  the action of  प्रत्येक  muscle from the standard anatomical  स्थिति   .
in  other  स्थितियाँ  ,  अन्य  actions  may  be performed .
A reenactment of a battle at  फोर्ट  Foster , 1837 (  at  Hillsborough River  राज्य  Park )
The  seminole   युद्धों   ,  also  ज्ञात  as the Florida Wars ,  यहूद  three  विरोध   in  Florida between the Seminole — the  सामूहिक  name given to the amalgamation  of   विभिन्न   समूह  of native  अमेरिकी  and Black people who settled in  फ्लोरिडा  in  the  early  18th  century — and the United States  फौज  .
The First Seminole  युद्ध  was from 1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ ) , the Second Seminole  युद्ध  from 1835 to  1842   ,  and the  तीसरा   seminole   युद्ध   इससे  1855  to  1858  .
The  पहला  conflict with the Seminoles arose out of tensions relating to General Andrew Jackson  's  attack  और  destruction of  नीग्रो   फोर्ट  in Florida in 1816 .
Jackson  भी   attacked  the Spanish at  pensacola  .
ultimately  , the Spanish Crown ceded the colony  to   संयुक्त  States rule .
Orono is a town in Penobscot County , Maine , United States .
it   थी  first settled in  1774   और  named in honor of Chief Joseph Orono of  the  Penobscot  स्वदेश  .
it  is  घर   to  The University of  maine  .
The population was 10,362  at  the  2010  census  .
View  of   the   पिरामिड
Luxor  लास   वेगास  is a hotel  और   कसीनो   on  the  लास   वेगास  Strip in Paradise , Nevada .
The 30-story hotel , owned and  संचालित  by MGM  रिसॉर्ट   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   ,  has a casino with  over  2,000 slot machines and 87 table  खेल  .
in   the   2008  to 2009 renovation , it has a  नई  ,  अत्यधिक  modernized , and contemporary design and contains  a  total of 4,400 rooms , including 442 suites ,  अस्तर   the   आंतरिक   दीवारें  of  a  pyramid style tower  और  within twin 22-story ziggurat towers that  यहूद  built as later additions .
The hotel  is  named  बाद   the   नगर  of  लक्सर  (  प्राचीन  Thebes ) in Egypt .
Luxor is the  दूसरी  largest hotel  in  Las Vegas  (  the  largest  being the MGM Grand )  और  the eighth largest  in   the   संसार   .
As of 2010 , the Luxor  रै  a  4   कुंजी   दरजा   इससे  the Green Key Eco-Rating Program , which evaluates `` sustainable '' hotel operations  .
A pilot experiment , also  पुकारा  a  पायलट  study , is  a  small  स्केल  preliminary  पढ़ाई  conducted  in  order to evaluate  feasibility  , time , cost , adverse events ,  और  effect  आकार  (  सांख्यिकीय  variability )  in  an  attempt   to  predict an appropriate sample size and  improve   upon  the study design  prior  to  प्रदर्शन  of a  full-scale  research  प्रोजेक्ट  .
Pilot  अध्ययन  ,  इसलिए  ,  may  not be appropriate for case  अध्ययन  .
The Los  एंजिल्स  Fire Department ( LAFD )  is   the   एजेंसी   कि  provides  आग  protection and emergency medical  सेवाएं  for  the  city of  लॉस  Angeles .
It  may  be unofficially  referred  to as the Los Angeles City Fire Department to distinguish it from the  लॉस  Angeles County  आग  Department .
The acre is a  ईकाई  of area used  in  the imperial and U.S.  प्रथागत  systems .
An acre  is   परिचय   40  %  of  a hectare – slightly  छोटी   than   an  American football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used  ,  although a few notable exceptions include the  संयुक्त  States , Australia , Burma  और  the United Kingdom ( as of 2010 , the acre is no longer officially used in the  संयुक्त  Kingdom , though is still used  in  real estate descriptions ) .
It is still used , to some extent  ,  in  कनाडा   .
The international symbol of the acre is ac , and  is  defined as 1/640 of a  वर्गाकार  mile  .
The  सबसे  commonly used acre today is  the  international acre .
In  the  United  राज्य  both  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  acre and  the  slightly different  us  survey acre  हैं  in  उपयोग  .
The  सबसे  common use  of  the  एकड़  is to measure tracts of land .
एक  international  एकड़  is defined  as  4046.8564224 square metres  .
दौरान  the Middle Ages  ,  an  एकड़  was the amount of  जमीन   कि   could  be plowed  in  one day with a  yoke  of oxen .
Pawnee initially refers to a Native American people  और   इसके  language:
Pawnee people
Pawnee language
Pawnee  is  also  the  name of several  स्थान  in the United States:
Pawnee , Illinois
pawnee   ,  Kansas
pawnee   नगर  , Nebraska
Pawnee ,  ओक्लाहोमा
Pawnee , Texas
pawnee  National Grassland , Colorado
pawnee   township  ( disambiguation )
Pawnee County ( disambiguation )
Pawnee may  भी  refer  to:
पाइपर  PA-25  pawnee  ,  agricultural  aircraft
Hiller VZ-1 Pawnee ,  प्रायोगिक   वायुयान
Pawnee , Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional setting of  the  NBC television comedy Parks  और  Recreation  .
broca  's and Wernicke 's Areas
भाषा   प्रसंस्करण  refers to the way human beings  उपयोग  words  to   communicate  ideas and feelings ,  और   कैसा   ऐसे   संचार  are processed  और  understood .
यूँ  it is  कैसा   the   दिमाग  creates and  understands   भाषा  .
Most recent theories consider  कि   इस   प्रक्रम  is carried out entirely by and inside the  दिमाग  .
This  is  considered  एक  of the most  characteristic  abilities of  the   इंसान  species - perhaps the most characteristic  .
However very little is  ज्ञात  about it  और  there is huge scope for research  on   it  .
Most of the knowledge  acquired  to  तिथि  on the subject has  आइये   इससे  patients  जो  have  suffered  some type of significant head injury ,  whether  external ( wounds , bullets ) or  आतंरिक  (  स्ट्रोक्स  ,  tumors  , degenerative  रोगों  ) .
Studies have  दिखाया   कि  most of the language processing functions are  carried  out  in  the cerebral cortex .
The essential function of the cortical  भाषा  areas is symbolic representation .
भी  though language exists in different forms , all  of   उन्हें  are based on symbolic representation  .
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4  is  a  mid-engined  grand  touring  car ,  designed  and developed by the  volkswagen  Group  और   manufactured  in  molsheim   ,  France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S  .
The Super Sport  संस्करण  of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal  उत्पादन   car  in the world , with a  शीर्ष   गति  of .
The  असली  version has a top  गति  of  .
It was named Car  of  the  दशक  ( 2000–2009 )  by   the   बीबीसी  television programme Top Gear  .
The standard Veyron won Top Gears  बेहतरीन  Car Driven All Year  पुरस्कार   in  2005 .
On 6  अप्रैल  2013 , Bugatti set the record for  the   तीव्रतम  roadster in  the  world with  the  Veyron  ग्रैंड  Sport Vitesse , reaching on average a  शीर्ष   गति  of .
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss , and the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen , with much of  the   अभियान्त्रिकी   कार्य  being conducted under the guidance  of  engineering  मुख्य  Wolfgang Schreiber  .
A number of special variants have  महरूम  produced .
In December  2010  ,  bugatti  began offering  prospective  buyers the ability  to  customize  exterior  and interiors colours by using the Veyron 16.4  configurator  application  on   the   marque  's official website .
dvd  is an optical disc  भंडार  format , invented and developed by Philips  ,  Sony  ,   तोशिबा   ,  and Panasonic in 1995 .
dvds   प्रस्ताव  higher storage capacity than  कॉम्पैक्ट  discs while having the same dimensions .
pre-recorded  DVDs are mass-produced  using  molding machines that  physically   स्टैम्प  data onto the DVD .
Such discs  हैं   ज्ञात  as DVD-  rom   ,   क्युकी  data can  तभी  be  पढ़ा  and not  लिखा  nor erased .
Blank  recordable  DVD  discs  ( DVD-R  और  DVD+R ) can  be   अंकित  once using a  dvd  recorder and  तब  function as a DVD-ROM . Rewritable  dvds  (  dvd-rw   ,  DVD+RW ,  और   dvd-ram  ) can be recorded and erased multiple  टाइम्स  .
dvds   हैं  used  in  DVD-Video consumer digital video  स्वरूप   और  in  dvd-audio   उपभोक्ता   डिजिटल  audio format  ,  as  खूब  as  लिये  authoring AVCHD discs .
DVDs  containing   अन्य  types of information may be referred to  as   dvd   आंकड़ा  discs .
कया  Chilli Wants is  an  American reality  श्रेणी  on VH1 starring Chilli , one-third of the  ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार  -winning  r  & B trio TLC .
The  दिखाएँ  chronicles Chilli  's   क्वेस्ट  to find love  साथ  the help of Tionna T.  smalls  , an author and relationship coach  .
The series premiered on April 11 , 2010 ,  और   रै   चूंकि  been renewed  लिये  a second season .
the  second season  premiered  on  संडे  , January 2 , 2011  .
Peter Gene Hernandez (  born  October 8  ,  1985 ) , known by  उसके   स्टेज  name Bruno Mars , is an American singer-songwriter and record  निर्माता   .
Raised in Honolulu ,  हवाई  ,  by  a  परिवार  of  संगीतकारों  ,  मंगल   began   बनाना  music  at  a young  आयु  and  performed  in various musical  venues  in his hometown throughout his childhood  .
he  graduated  इससे  high school and then moved  to  Los Angeles  ,  California , to pursue a musical career .
Mars produced  गीतों   लिये   अन्य   कलाकारों  , joining  उत्पादन  team The  smeezingtons  .
मंगल  had  an  unsuccessful stint with Motown Records  ,   लकिन  then signed  साथ  Atlantic in  2009   .
He became recognized as a  सोलो  artist after lending his  vocals  and co-writing the hooks for  the   गीतों  `` Nothin  '  on You  ``   by  B.o.B ,  और   ``  Billionaire `` by Travie  मैककॉय  .
He also  co-wrote  the  हिट्स   ``   सही  Round ``  by  Flo Rida featuring Ke  $  ha ,  और  ``  wavin  ' Flag ``  by  K'naan .
In October 2010 , he released his  डेब्यू  album  ,  Doo-Wops & Hooligans .
Anchored  by  the  विश्वव्यापी   number-one  singles `` Just the Way  तुम  Are  ``  and `` Grenade ``  ,   the  album peaked at  क्रमांक   तीन  on the Billboard 200  .
मंगल  was nominated  लिये  seven  grammys   at   the  53rd  ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार  , winning  बेहतरीन  Male Pop Vocal Performance for `` Just  the   रास्ता  You Are ''  .
His second studio  एल्बम  ,  अपरंपरागत  Jukebox  ,  was released  on  December 11 ,  2012   .
Mars ' music  is  noted for displaying a  चौड़ी  variety of styles and influences , and contains  तत्व  of many  musical  genres  .
he  has  worked  with an assortment  of  artists from various  जाति   .
As a child , he  थी   अत्यधिक   बहकावे  by artists such as Little  रिचर्ड  , Elvis  प्रेस्ली  and Michael Jackson and would often  impersonate  these artists from a young age .
मंगल  also incorporates  रेगी  -  और  Motown -inspired sounds  into   उसके   कार्य   .
Worldwide , Mars became the best-selling  डिजिटल  artist in 2011 .
he  had three singles in the  शीर्ष  ten , including first place with `` Just the  रास्ता   तुम  Are  ''  , which  बेची   12.5  million  नक़ल  .
Mars  जीती  Best  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   पुरूष  Solo Artist at  the  2012 BRIT Awards  .
Bruno Mars  रै   बेची  6 million albums and 40 million singles worldwide as a singer  .
Althought as a song-writer , producer and singer  उसके   कुल  single download  बिक्री   surpass  100 million  विश्वव्यापी  .
Bust  of   ज़ीउस   ,  Otricoli ( Sala  रोटोंडा   ,  Museo Pio-Clementino , Vatican )  .
Greek  mythology   is  the body of myths and teachings  कि  belong to the ancient  यूनानियों  , concerning their  देवताओं   और  heroes , the  प्रकृति   of   the  world  ,   और  the origins  और   significance  of their own cult and ritual practices .
it   थी  a part  of  the religion in  प्राचीन  Greece  और  is part of religion in  आधुनिक  Greece  और  around the  संसार  , known as Hellenismos .
Modern scholars refer  to  and  पढ़ाई  the myths in an attempt to throw light on the religious and political institutions of  प्राचीन  Greece  और  its civilization  ,  and to  लाभ  understanding  of  the  प्रकृति  of myth-making itself .
Greek  mythology  is explicitly  समाविष्ट  in  a  large collection  of  narratives , and  implicitly  in Greek representational  कला  , such as  vase-paintings  and votive gifts .
यूनानी   मिथक  attempts to explain the origins  of   the   संसार   ,   और  details the  जीवनदान   और  adventures of a wide variety of gods  ,  goddesses ,  नायक   ,   heroines  , and mythological  जीव   .
These  खाते   initially   यहूद   disseminated   in  an  oral-poetic  tradition ; today the Greek myths  हैं   ज्ञात   primarily  from Greek literature .
The oldest known  यूनानी  literary sources  ,   होमर  's epic  कविताएं  Iliad and  ओडिसी  , focus on events surrounding  the   trojan  War .
दो  poems by Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod , the Theogony and the  works  and Days  ,   contain   खाते   of   the  genesis  of  the world , the succession of divine rulers ,  the   उत्तराधिकार   of  human  आयु  , the origin of human woes , and  the  origin  of  sacrificial  practices  .
Myths  हैं  also preserved in the  homeric   hymns  , in fragments of epic poems of the Epic  साईकिल  , in lyric  कविताएं  ,  in   the  works  of   the   tragedians  of the fifth  सदी  BC , in  कृतियाँ  of scholars and poets  of  the  hellenistic  Age  ,  and in  ग्रन्थ  from  the   समय   of   the  Roman Empire by writers such  as  Plutarch  और   pausanias   .
पुरातत्व   निष्कर्षों  provide  a   प्रिंसिपल   सोर्स  of detail about Greek mythology ,  साथ   देवताओं  and heroes  प्रदर्शित  prominently  in  the decoration of many artifacts  .
Geometric designs on  pottery  of the  आठवीं  century BC depict scenes from  the  Trojan cycle as  खूब   as  the adventures of  heracles  .
in  the succeeding  archaic   ,   शास्त्रीय  , and  hellenistic  periods  ,  Homeric and  विभिन्न   अन्य   पौराणिक   दृश्यों   appear  , supplementing  the  existing literary  प्रमाण  .
यूनानी   mythology   रै   था  an extensive influence on the  संस्कृति  , arts , and literature of Western civilization and remains part  of  Western  विरासत   और  language  .
Poets and  कलाकारों   इससे   प्राचीन  times  to  the present  have   निकला   प्रेरणा  from Greek  mythology  and  have  discovered contemporary significance  और  relevance in the  विषयवस्तु  .
Mouth & MacNeal in 1971
Mouth & MacNeal was a  पॉप  duo  इससे  the Netherlands .
They are best  ज्ञात  for their million selling recording  of  `` How  do  You  do  `` .
the  Boise State Broncos football  कार्यक्रम  represents Boise State University  in  college football and  compete  in  the  Football  कटोरी   subdivision  (  fbs  )  of   प्रभाग  I as a  सदस्य   of  the  पहाड़  West Conference .
They are currently  led   by  head coach Chris Petersen and play their home games at  bronco   स्टेडियम  .
The franc ( sign  :  Fr . or SFr . ;  जर्मनी  :  franken  , French and Romansh  :  franc , Italian :  फ्रेंको  ; code : CHF ) is the currency and legal tender of  स्विट्ज़रलैंड   और  Liechtenstein  ;   it  is  भी   विधिक  tender in the  इतालवी   exclave   campione  d'Italia  .
हालांकि  not  formally   विधिक  tender in  the  German  exclave  Büsingen ( the sole legal currency  is  the euro ) ,  it  is in wide daily use  वहीँ  .
The Swiss National Bank  मुद्दे   banknotes   और  the  संघीय  mint  swissmint  issues coins .
the  Swiss  फ़्रैंक   is  the only version of  the  franc still issued in Europe  .
the  smaller  denomination   ,  a hundredth  of   a  franc , is a  rappen   (  Rp . ) in German , centime (  c.  ) in French  ,  centesimo ( ct.  )  in  इतालवी   ,  and rap (  rp  . )  in  Romansh  .
the   आईएसओ  code  of  the currency used by banks  और   वित्तीय  institutions is CHF ,  हालांकि   ``   fr  .  ''  is used by most businesses and advertisers ;  कुछ  use SFr . ; the Latinate `` CH  ''   स्टैंड  for Confoederatio Helvetica .
दिए  the different languages used in Switzerland , Latin  is  used for language-neutral inscriptions on the coins .
सर  Charles  स्पेंसर  `` Charlie  ''   चैपलिन   ,  (  16   अप्रैल  188925 December 1977  )   थी  a British comic  कर्ता   और   फिल्मकार  who rose to  कीर्ति  in the silent era .
Chaplin  became   a  worldwide icon through  उसके  screen persona  ``   the  Tramp `` and is considered one of the most important figures  of  the film industry .
उसके   करियर   spanned   अधिक  than 75  सालो  , from a child in the Victorian era to close to his death  at  the age of 88 , and  encompassed  both adulation and controversy .
Raised in London  ,  Chaplin  's  childhood was defined  by  poverty and hardship  .
He was sent to a workhouse twice  पहले  the age of nine ; his father was  अनुपस्थित  , and his  माँ   थी  committed to  a   दिमागी  asylum  .
Chaplin  began  performing from  a  young age , touring music halls and later working as a  स्टेज  actor and comedian .
At 19  he  was signed to the  prestigious   फ्रेड   karno  company , which took  उसे  to America  .
Chaplin  थी  scouted by the film  उद्योग  , and made  उसके  first appearances in 1914 with Keystone  studios  .
He soon developed the Tramp  persona   और   formed   a  large fan  आधार   .
चैपलिन   निर्देशित  his films from an  जल्दी  stage ,  और   जारी  to hone his craft as he moved to  the  Essanay , Mutual , and  पहला   नेशनल  corporations  .
By  1918   ,  he was one of  the  most  प्रसिद्ध  men in  the  world  .
In 1919  ,  Chaplin co-founded  the  distribution  कम्पनी  United Artists  ,  giving  उसे  complete  कंट्रोल   over  his films .
His first feature-length  चित्र  was The  बच्चा  (  1921   )   ,   followed   by  A Woman  of   पेरिस  ( 1923 ) ,  the  Gold Rush  (   1925   )   ,  and The Circus (  1928  ) .
He refused to move  to   ध्वनि  films in the 1930s ,  बजाय  producing City Lights (  1931   )  and  आधुनिक  Times ( 1936 ) without dialogue .
चैपलिन   became  increasingly political  और   उसके  next  फिल्मी   ,  The  ग्रेट  Dictator ( 1940  )   ,  satirised  एडोल्फ  Hitler  .
The  1940s  was a decade marked  साथ  controversy  लिये  Chaplin ,  और  his popularity declined rapidly .
He was  अभियुक्त   of   कम्युनिस्ट   sympathies   ,  while his involvement in a paternity  सूट  and marriages to much younger women were  माना  scandalous .
An FBI investigation was  खोली  on  चैपलिन  ,  और  he was eventually forced to  छोड़   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  and  settle  in Switzerland .
He  abandoned  the  ट्रैम्प  for  उसके  later films , which include  monsieur  Verdoux ( 1947 ) , Limelight  (   1952  ) , A King in New York ( 1957  )  ,  और  A Countess From  हांग  Kong ( 1967 ) .
Chaplin wrote , directed ,  उत्पादित  , edited , scored , and starred in most of his  films  .
He was a perfectionist , and his financial independence  meant  he often  खर्च   सालो  on the development and production of  a   चित्र  .
His films are characterised by  slapstick   संयुक्त  with pathos , and often  विशेषता   the   ट्रैम्प  struggling against adversity .
अनेक   contain  social and  राजनैतिक  themes  ,  as well as autobiographical  तत्व  .
In 1972  ,  as part of a renewed appreciation for his work , Chaplin received an Honorary Academy Award  लिये   ``  the incalculable effect he has  था  in making motion pictures the art  रूप  of this century '' .
He continues  to   be  held in  ऊँची  regard , with The Gold  फटाफट   ,  City Lights , Modern  टाइम्स  , and  the  Great Dictator  प्रायः   क्रमित  among the greatest films of all time .
नियोजित   parenthood  Federation of America ( PPFA ) , commonly  shortened   to  Planned Parenthood , is  the  U.S.  संबद्ध  of the International Planned Parenthood  संघ  ( IPPF ) and  एक  of its larger members .
PPFA is a  non-profit  organization  providing  reproductive health  और  maternal and  चाइल्ड  health  सेवाएं   .
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund , Inc. (  ppaf  ) is a  सम्बन्धित  organization which lobbies for  pro-choice   विधान   ,  comprehensive sex education , and  अभिगम   to  affordable  स्वास्थ्य  care in the United  राज्य  .
Planned Parenthood is  the  largest U.S. provider  of  reproductive health  सेवाएं  , including  कर्कट  screening  ,  HIV screening and  counseling   ,  contraception  ,  and abortion .
निरोधक   खाते  for 35 % of  ppfa  's  कुल  services and abortions account for  3  %  ;  PPFA  conducts  roughly 300,000 abortions each  साल  , among  3  million people served  .
the  organization has  इसके  roots  in  Brooklyn , New York  ,  where Margaret Sanger  खोली   the  country 's first birth-control  क्लिनिक  .
Sanger  संस्थापित  the  अमरीकी   जनम   कंट्रोल  League  in  1921 , which in  1942  became  भाग  of  the  Planned  parenthood  Federation of America  .
Since then , Planned Parenthood  रै   grown  to have  over  820  क्लिनिक  locations in the U.S.  ,  with a total budget of US $ 1 billion .
ppfa   provides  an array of services to over  तीन  million  लोगों  in the United States , and supports services  लिये  over  एक  million clients outside  the  United  राज्य  .
Mens  rea  is Latin for  ``   अपराधी  mind '' .
In criminal law , it is viewed as  एक   of   the   जरुरी  elements of  कुछ   अपराधों   .
The  मानक  common law test  of  criminal  देयता   is   प्रायः  expressed  in  the Latin phrase , actus non facit reum nisi mens sit  rea   ,  which means ``  the  act is  नहीं  culpable unless the mind  is  guilty ''  .
Thus , in jurisdictions with due  प्रक्रम  , there must be  an   actus   reus  , or `` guilty  अधिनियम  ,  ''  accompanied by  कुछ  level of mens  rea  to constitute  the   अपराधों  with which  the  defendant is charged (  देखिए   the  technical requirement  of   concurrence   )  .
As a general rule , criminal  देयता  does not attach to  a   व्यक्ति  who  acted  with  the  absence of  दिमागी  fault .
The exception is strict  देयता  crimes .
In  सिविल   विधि   ,   it  is usually not necessary to  prove  a subjective mental element  to  establish  देयता  for  उल्लंघन  of contract or tort ,  लिये  example .
however  ,  if  a tort is  intentionally  committed or a contract is intentionally breached  ,   ऐसे  intent  may   बढ़ाएँ   the   पैमाना  of  देयता   as   खूब   as   the  measure  of  damages  देय  to the plaintiff  .
Therefore , mens rea  refers  to the  दिमागी  element  of  the  अपराध  that accompanies the  actus   reus  .
In some jurisdictions , the terms mens rea and actus reus  have  been replaced by  वैकल्पिक  terminology .
In Australia ,  लिये  example ,  the   तत्व  of  the   संघीय  offences are now  designated  as ``  दोष  elements  ''  or  ``  mental  तत्व  '' ( mens rea  )  and  ``  physical elements  ''  or `` external  तत्व   ''  (  actus   reus  ) .
This terminology was adopted to  बदलें  the obscurity of the Latin terms with simple  और   सटीक  phrasing .
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27  ,  1822 – July 23 ,  1885  ) was the  18th  President  of  the  संयुक्त  States ( 1869–1877 )  following  his  अत्यधिक   कामयाब  role as a  युद्ध  general in  the  second  हाफ  of  the   सिविल   युद्ध  .
अंतर्गत  Grant ,  the  Union  फौज   पराजित   the  Confederate military ; having  effectively  ended the war and  secession   साथ  the surrender  of   रॉबर्ट  E.  ली  's army at  appomattox  .
As president he led  the   कट्टरपंथी   republicans   in   उनके  effort  to  eliminate all vestiges  of   confederate  nationalism and slavery .
Upset over  uncontrolled   हिंसा  in the South  और  having desired  to   protect  African  अमरीकी  citizenship , President Grant effectively destroyed  the  Ku Klux Klan in 1871 .
Grant  थी  the first President to establish Civil  सेवा   सुधार   having   निर्मित   a   two-year  federally funded Civil  सेवा   आयोग  in 1871 .
in   शर्तें  of foreign  नीति   ,  Grant revealed an ``  अनपेक्षित  capacity for deliberation  और  consultation '' that promoted the national  ब्याज  .
उसके  reputation  थी  marred by  उसके  repeated defense  of  corrupt appointees , and by America 's first industrial age economic depression ( called the  ``   दहशत   of  1873 ``  )  that  वर्चस्व  his second term  .
Although his  रिपब्लिकन  Party  विभाजित  in  1872  with reformers denouncing him , Grant was easily reelected  .
by  1875 the conservative white Southern opposition regained control  of  every state in the South and as he  बाएँ  the  श्वेत  House  in  March 1877 his  नीतियों   यहूद   होने   undone  .
A career  सिपाही  , he graduated  इससे  the United States Military Academy  at  West  पाइंट  and served in the Mexican–American  युद्ध  .
जब  the Civil  युद्ध  began in  1861  , Grant trained Union volunteer  regiments   in  Illinois .
In 1862 ,  as  a general he  लड़ा  a series  of  battles and  थी  promoted  to  major  सामान्य   बाद  forcing the  आत्मसमर्पण  of a  विशाल  Confederate army  और   gaining  control of Kentucky and most  of  Tennessee .
He  तब   led  Union forces to victory after initial setbacks in the  बैटल   of  Shiloh  ,   कमाई  a reputation  as  an aggressive commander .
in   जुलाई  1863 ,  बाद  a long ,  जटिल   अभियान  ,  ग्रान्ट  defeated five uncoordinated Confederate  सेना   (  capturing one  of  them  )  and  जब्त  Vicksburg .
इस  famous  विजय  gave the Union  पूरा   कंट्रोल  of the  मिसिसिपी   नदी   ,  split off  the  western  confederacy  , and opened  the  way for more Union triumphs .
After another win at the Battle  of  Chattanooga in late 1863 , President Abraham Lincoln made  उसे   लेफ्टिनेंट  general and commander  of  all of the  संघ  Armies .
As  commanding  general  of  the army , Grant confronted Robert  E.   ली   in   a  series  of  very bloody battles in 1864 known as the  overland  Campaign that ended with the bottling up of Lee  at  Petersburg , outside  the   confederate  capital  of  Richmond .
During the siege , Grant coordinated a series  of  devastating campaigns launched by William Tecumseh  शरमन   ,  Philip Sheridan ,  और  George Thomas .
आखिरकार  breaking through  ली  's trenches , the Union  फौज  captured Richmond in April  1865   .
Lee  surrendered  his depleted forces to  ग्रान्ट  at  appomattox  as  the  Confederacy  collapsed   .
हालांकि  pro-Confederate historians attacked  ग्रान्ट  as a  निष्ठुर   कसाई  who  जीती  by brute force ,  सबसे  historians have  hailed   उसके   सैन्य  genius .
Grant 's two consecutive terms as  अध्यक्ष   stabilized  the nation after the  अमरीकी  Civil  युद्ध  and  दौरान   the  turbulent Reconstruction period that followed  .
as  president ,  he  enforced Reconstruction by enforcing civil rights  कानून   और   लड़  Ku Klux Klan  हिंसा   .
ग्रान्ट  won passage  of   the  Fifteenth Amendment ;  giving  constitutional  सुरक्षा  for African-American voting  अधिकारों  .
he   प्रयुक्त   the   फौज  to build  the  Republican  पार्टी   in   the  South , based on black voters , Northern newcomers ( ``  carpetbaggers   ``   )  and native  श्वेत   समर्थक  ( `` Scalawags .  ''   )
As a result  ,   अफ़्रीकी  Americans  यहूद  represented in  the  U.S.  कॉंग्रेस  for the  पहला  time in  अमरीकी  history  in  1870 .
reformers   praised  Grant 's Indian  सलाम   नीति   by  having broken the deadlock on  भारतीय   appropriations   in  Congress , the  सृष्टि   of  the  फलक   of  Indian  commissioners  to  मेक  reform  सुझाव  , and his enlistment of Quaker  protestants  who controlled mid western Indian  एजेंसियों  ,  कि  effectively  curbed   congressional   patronage  .
ग्रान्ट   remained  determined in  keeping  Indians  इससे  being  exterminated   इससे   श्वेत   settler  encroachment  or  by the  u.S.  military .
ग्रान्ट  's reputation as  अध्यक्ष  by  1875   थी   at   an  all-time high for his previous veto of the Inflation  विधेयक   ,  the  ड्योढ़ी  of  the  Resumption  of  Specie Act , and Secretary  bristow  's  कामयाब   छापे   कि  shut down  the  Whiskey  रिंग  .
ग्रान्ट   's   विदेशी  policy  ,  led by  सचिव  of State Hamilton  मछली  , implemented International Arbitration ,  settled  the  अलबामा  Claims with  ब्रिटेन  and avoided war with Spain over  the   virginius   affair   .
A  ज्यूकबॉक्स   is  a partially automated  music-playing  device , usually a coin-operated  यंत्र  ,  कि   होगा   खेल  a patron 's selection from self-contained media .
The classic jukebox  रै   बटन  with  अक्षर   और  numbers on  उन्हें  that ,  जब  entered in combination , are used  to  play a  विशिष्ट   चयन   .
A  ड्रग   परीक्षण  is a  तकनीकी  analysis of  a   biological  specimen –  लिये  example urine , hair , blood  ,   स्वेद  ,  or   मौखिक  fluid  /   लार   –  to determine  the  presence or  अनुपस्थिति  of specified parent drugs or  उनके   metabolites  .
प्रमुख  uses of  ड्रग  testing are to  detect   the  presence  of  performance enhancing steroids  in   खेल   or   लिये  drugs prohibited by laws  ,  such  as  cannabis , cocaine and  हेरोइन  .
A `` 10-panel urine screen  ''  consists of  the  following:
Amphetamines ( including Methamphetamine )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
Cannabinoids  (  THC )
Cocaine
Methadone
Methaqualone
opiates  (  codeine  , Morphine ,  हेरोइन   ,  Oxycodone  ,  Hydrocodone , etc . )
Phencyclidine ( PCP  )
Propoxyphene
Saturn  v  rocket , used  लिये  the American manned lunar landing  मिशन
स्पेस   खोजी  is the discovery and exploration of outer  स्पेस  by means of space technology  .
शारीरिक  exploration of  स्पेस  is conducted both  by   इंसान   spaceflights  and  by  robotic spacecraft .
While the  अवलोकन   of  objects  in  space  ,  known  as  astronomy , predates reliable recorded history , it was the development of large and  अपेक्षाकृत  efficient rockets during the early 20th century that  अनुमत  physical space exploration to become a  वास्तविकता   .
Common  rationales   लिये  exploring  स्पेस   शामिल  advancing scientific research , uniting  अलग  nations ,  ensuring  the future  अस्तित्व  of humanity  और   विकासशील  military and  रणनीतिक  advantages  विरूद्ध   अन्य   देशों  .
Various  आलोचनाओं  of space exploration  हैं  sometimes  बना  .
Space  खोजी   रै  often been  प्रयुक्त  as a proxy competition  लिये  geopolitical rivalries  ऐसे   as  the  ठंडा   युद्ध   .
The  जल्दी   era   of  space exploration was driven  by   a  `` Space  रेस  `` between the Soviet Union and the  संयुक्त  States , the launch  of  the first man-made object  to   कक्षा  the  धरती  , the  ussr  's Sputnik 1 ,  on   4  October 1957  ,  and the first Moon landing by the American Apollo  11   शिल्प  on 20  जुलाई   1969  are often taken as  the  boundaries for  इस   आरंभिक  period .
The  सोवियत   स्पेस   कार्यक्रम  achieved many  of   the  first milestones  ,   सहित   the   पहला  living  होने   in  orbit in 1957 ,  the  first human spaceflight (  यूरी  Gagarin  सवार  Vostok 1 )  in   1961  ,  the  first spacewalk ( by Aleksei  leonov  ) on 18 March 1965 , the first automatic  लैंडिंग  on another  celestial  body  in  1966 , and  the  launch of the first space  स्टेशन  ( Salyut 1  )   in   1971  .
After the first  20  years of  खोजी  , focus shifted from  one-off   फ़्लाइट  to  बेदर्दी  hardware , such as the Space  शटल   कार्यक्रम   ,  and  इससे   प्रतियोगिता   to  cooperation  as  with the International Space Station ( ISS  )  .
With the substantial completion of  the  ISS following  sts-133  in  कूच  2011  ,   योजनाएँ   लिये   स्पेस  exploration by the USA remain in flux .
Constellation , a  बुश  Administration program for a return  to  the Moon by 2020  थी  judged  inadequately  funded and unrealistic by  an  expert  पुनर्विलोकन  panel reporting  in  2009 .
the  Obama  प्रशासन  proposed a  संशोधन   of  Constellation  in  2010  to  focus on the development of the  काबिलियत  for crewed missions beyond low  धरती   कक्षा  ( LEO ) , envisioning  extending  the operation of  the  ISS beyond 2020 , transferring the development of launch vehicles for human crews from  नासा  to  the  private  सेक्टर   ,   और   विकासशील  technology to enable missions to beyond LEO ,  ऐसे  as  earth/moon   l1  ,  the  Moon ,  earth/sun  L2 , near-earth asteroids , and Phobos or  मंगल  orbit .
as  of March 2011  ,   the  US Senate  और   हाउस  of  प्रतिनिधि  are still  working  towards  a  compromise NASA funding bill , which will probably  terminate  Constellation and fund  विकास  of  a  heavy  लिफ्ट  launch vehicle  (  HLLV ) .
In the 2000s  ,  the  लोगों  's  गणतंत्र  of China initiated a successful manned spaceflight program  ,  while the  यूरोपीय  Union ,  जापानी   ,   और  India  have   भी  planned future manned space missions .
China  ,   रूस  , Japan ,  और   इण्डिया  have advocated manned missions to  the  Moon  दौरान  the 21st century , while the  यूरोपीय  Union has advocated manned missions to  दोनो   the  Moon and Mars  दौरान  the 21st century .
From the  1990s  onwards  ,  private  रूचि   began   promoting  space tourism and  तब  private  स्पेस   खोजी  of the Moon  (  see Google Lunar  x  Prize )  .
जॉन   calvin  Coolidge , Jr.  (  July  4  , 1872January 5 , 1933 ) was  the   30th   अध्यक्ष  of the United States  (  1923–1929 ) .
A Republican lawyer from Vermont ,  कूलिज  worked  उसके  way up  the   सीढ़ियाँ   of   मैसाचुसेट्स  state politics , eventually becoming  राज्यपाल   of  that  राज्य  .
उसके   conduct  during the  बोस्टन  Police Strike of  1919   thrust  him  into  the national spotlight and gave him a  प्रतिष्ठा  as a man of decisive action .
जल्द  after  ,  he was elected  as   the  29th Vice President in 1920  और   succeeded  to the Presidency upon the sudden  मौत  of Warren G. Harding  in   1923  .
निर्वाचित  in his  अपना  right in  1924  , he gained a  प्रतिष्ठा  as a small-government conservative , and also as a man who  कहा  very  छोटी  .
कूलिज  restored public confidence  in  the White House  बाद  the  घोटालों  of his predecessor  's  administration , and  बाएँ   दफ्तर  with considerable  लोकप्रियता  .
as   a  Coolidge biographer put it  ,  ``  he  embodied the spirit  और  hopes of the  मध्य  class , could interpret their longings and express  उनके   राय   .
That he did  represent  the genius of the average is the most convincing  प्रमाण  of his strength . ''
कुछ  later criticized  कूलिज  as part of a  सामान्य  criticism of laissez-faire  सरकारी  .
उसके  reputation underwent a renaissance during  the  Ronald Reagan Administration , but the  परम  assessment of his presidency is still divided between those  जो  approve of his reduction of  the  size of  सरकारी   कार्यक्रम  and those who  मानना  the federal  सरकारी  should be  अधिक  involved in regulating and controlling  the  economy  .
Espresso  is  a concentrated  पेय  brewed by forcing a small amount  of  nearly boiling water  अंतर्गत  pressure  through  finely ground coffee beans .
एस्प्रेसो  often has a thicker consistency than coffee brewed by  अन्य   विधि   ,  a higher concentration of suspended  और  dissolved solids , and  crema  (  अर्थ  cream , but being a reference to the foam with a creamy  बनावट   कि   फ़ॉर्म  as  a   परिणाम  of  the   दबाव   )   .
As a  परिणाम   of  the pressurized  brewing  process the  जायका  and chemicals in a typical cup  of  espresso are very concentrated  .
Espresso is the  आधार  for  अन्य  drinks ,  ऐसे   as  a latte , cappuccino , macchiato ,  मोचा   ,   or  americano .
Espresso has more  कैफीन   प्रति  unit volume than most beverages  ,   लकिन   the  usual serving  आकार  is smaller—a  ठेठ   60  mL (  2  US fluid ounce ) of  एस्प्रेसो   रै  80 to 150 mg  of  caffeine  ,  little  कम   than   the  95 to  200   mg  of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) cup  of   drip-brewed   कॉफी  .
Brian Keith Kelly  (  born October 25  ,   1961  ) is an American football coach and former player .
He is currently the head football coach for  the  Notre Dame Fighting  आयरिश  , a  स्थिति  he has held since December 2009 .
Kelly was previously head coach at Grand Valley  राज्य  University ( 1991–2003 ) , Central Michigan University  (  2004–2006 ) ,  और  University of Cincinnati ( 2006–2009  )   .
A contract  is   an  agreement having a lawful  ऑब्जेक्ट  entered into  voluntarily  by two  or  more parties  ,   प्रत्येक  of whom  intends  to create  एक  or more legal  दायित्वों  between them  .
The elements  of  a contract are  ``   प्रस्ताव  '' and  ``   स्वीकृति   ''   by  ``  competent  persons '' having  विधिक   क्षमता  who  एक्सचेंज  `` consideration  ''   to  create `` mutuality of  दायित्व  . ''
Proof of  कुछ  or all of these elements  may  be  किया  in  लिखने  ,  हालांकि  contracts may be  बना  entirely orally  or  by conduct .
the   उपाय   लिये  breach of  अनुबंध  can  be   ``  damages '' in the  रूप   of  compensation  of  money or specific performance enforced  through   an  injunction  .
Both  of  these remedies  पुरस्कार  the party at  घाटा  the  ``  benefit of the  सौदेबाजी   ''  or expectation damages , which are  वृहद  than mere reliance damages ,  as  in  promissory   estoppel   .
The  पार्टियों   may  be  प्राकृतिक  persons or juristic persons .
A  अनुबंध   is  a  legally  enforceable promise  or  undertaking that  कुछ  will  or  will not occur  .
the   शब्द  promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract , although  परवाह   is  required as a  वादा  may not have the full standing  of  a  अनुबंध  ,  as  when it  is  an  अनुबंध  without consideration .
Contract law varies greatly from  एक  jurisdiction to another , including  मतभेद  in  आम  law  compared  to civil  विधि  , the  प्रभाव  of  प्राप्त  law  ,  particularly  इससे   इंग्लैण्ड  in common law  देशों   ,  and of  विधि  codified in  क्षेत्रीय  legislation .
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example  ,  there are 40 relevant  अधिनियमों  which impact  on   the  interpretation  of   अनुबंध  at the  राष्ट्रमंडल  ( Federal  /  national  )  level , and an  अतिरिक्त  26 acts at the level  of  the state of NSW  .
In addition  वहीँ   हैं  6 international instruments or  प्रथाओं  which are applicable  लिये   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   dealings  , such  as  the  संयुक्त  Nations  सम्मेलन  on  अनुबंध  for  the  International Sale of Goods .
sidney   पैट्रिक  Crosby , ONS (  born  August  7  , 1987 )  is   a  Canadian professional ice hockey player who  is   कप्तान  of the Pittsburgh Penguins  of  the  नेशनल  Hockey League  (  NHL  )  .
Crosby was drafted  पहला  overall  by  the  penguins  out of the  क्यूबेक  Major  जूनियर  Hockey League ( QMJHL  )  .
During his  two-year  major junior career with  the   rimouski  Océanic  ,  he  अर्जित  back-to-back CHL Player of the  साल  awards  और  led his club to the 2005  मेमोरियल   कप   फाइनल   .
Nicknamed `` The  अगला  One  ``   ,  he was one  of   the   सबसे  highly regarded draft  चयन  in hockey history  ,  leading many to  refer  to the  2005  Draft Lottery as the ``  sidney  Crosby Sweepstakes '' .
In his first NHL season ,  crosby   समाप्त   छठे  in league scoring with 102 points ( 39 goals , 63 assists ) and  थी   a  runner-up for the  calder  Memorial  ट्रॉफी  (  जीती   by   सिकंदर  Ovechkin ) .
By his  दूसरी   ऋतु  , he led the NHL with 120 points ( 36 goals  ,  84 assists ) to  कैप्चर  the Art Ross Trophy , becoming  the  youngest  खिलाड़ी  and  the  only teenager  to  win a scoring  शीर्षक  in  कोई   प्रमुख  North American  खेल  league  .
That same season  ,   crosby  also won  the   हार्ट  Memorial  ट्रॉफी  as  the  Professional  हॉकी  Writers Association  's   चुनाव   लिये   सबसे  valuable  खिलाड़ी  and the  लेस्टर  B. Pearson Award as the NHL Players Association 's  चुनाव  for  सबसे  outstanding  खिलाड़ी  , becoming the seventh player in NHL  इतिहास   to  earn all three awards  in  one  साल  .
Crosby  प्रारंभ  the 2007–08  ऋतु  with  the  team 's captaincy  और  subsequently led  उन्हें  to the 2008 Stanley  कप  Finals , where they were defeated  by  the Detroit Red  विंग्स  in six games .
The Penguins returned to  the  Finals against Detroit the following  साल  and  जीती  in seven games ; Crosby became the youngest captain in  एनएचएल  history to  जीत   the  Stanley Cup  .
In the  2009–10   ऋतु   ,  Crosby  scored  a career-high  51   लक्ष्य  ,  tying  him with Steven Stamkos  लिये  the Rocket Richard  ट्रॉफी   as   the  league-leader ; with 58 assists , he totaled 109  अंक  , second  in  the  एनएचएल  .
During  the   off-season  , Crosby received the Mark Messier Leadership Award .
in  2010–11 , Crosby sustained a concussion  as  a result  of  hits to  the  head in back-to-back  खेल   .
The injury left him sidelined for  टेन  and a half  महीने  .
However , after playing  आठ   खेल  in the 2011–12  ऋतु  , Crosby  's  concussion-like  लक्षण  returned in December  2011   ,  and he  किया   नहीं  return until mid-March 2012 .
Internationally  ,  Crosby  रै  represented  कनाडा  in numerous  tournaments  for the country  's  junior and men  's  teams  .
After competing  in  the 2003 U-18 Junior World  कप  , he represented Canada in back-to-back IIHF World  u20  Championships  ,  winning silver  in  2004 and gold in 2005  .
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship ,  he   led   the  tournament in scoring  ,   जबकि  also  कमाई  Top Forward  और  All-Star Team honours .
Four years later , Crosby was named to Team Canada for  the  2010 Winter  ओलंपिक   in   वैंकूवर  .
Playing the  संयुक्त   राज्य   in  the gold medal  खेल   ,  he  scored   the  game-winning goal in overtime .
A United  राज्य  cent , also  ज्ञात  as a penny .
``  my   दो  cents '' ( 2¢ ) and  इसके  longer version ``  put   my  two  सेंट  in '' is an  संयुक्त  States (  us  ) idiomatic  अभिव्यक्ति  , taken from the  असली  English  मुहावरा  expression : to put in ``  my  two pennies worth '' or  ``   my  tuppence worth .  ''
It is used to preface  the   अंतरिम   stating  of one’s opinion  .
By deprecating  the  opinion to follow – suggesting its value  is  only two  सेंट   ,  a very small amount  –  the  उपयोक्ता  of  the   phrase  hopes to lessen the  प्रभाव  of  a  possibly statement , showing politeness  और   विनम्रता   .
however   ,  it is also sometimes  प्रयुक्त   साथ   विडंबना  when  expressing   a   strongly   लगा  opinion .
The phrase is also used out of habit to preface uncontentious  राय  .
लिये  example:
The Chinese  सिविल  War  थी   a  civil war in  चीन  fought  between   शक्तियां  loyal to the  सरकारी  of the Republic of China led by the  kuomintang   (  KMT  )  and  शक्तियां   of  the Communist Party  of  China  (  CPC  )   .
the  war began in April 1927  ,  amidst the  उत्तरी   expedition  , and  essentially  ended when  प्रमुख   क्रियाशील   लड़ाइयों  ceased  in  1950 .
The conflict eventually  resulted  in  दो  de  facto   राज्य  , the Republic  of   चीन  ( ROC )  in  Taiwan and the People  's   गणतंत्र  of China (  पीआरसी  ) in  मेनलैंड   चीन  , both  claiming   to  be the  legitimate   सरकारी   of   चीन  .
The  युद्ध  represented an ideological split ( Left vs . Right ) between  the  Communist  cpc   ,  and the  kmt  's brand of Nationalism  .
The civil  युद्ध  continued  intermittently  until  लेट  1937 , when the  दो  parties formed  a   दूसरी   संयुक्त  Front to counter a Japanese invasion .
China 's full-scale civil  युद्ध   resumed  in 1946 , a  साल  after  the  end of  hostilities  with Japan .
बाद   चार  more years ,  1950   देखी  the cessation  of  major military hostilities—with the  newly  founded  लोगों   's  Republic of China  controlling  mainland China  (  including  हाइनान   )   ,   और  the Republic of  चीन   's  jurisdiction  होने  restricted to Taiwan , Penghu , Quemoy  ,  Matsu and  अनेक  outlying  आइलैंड्स  .
the  Kuomintang  शिकस्त  is attributed to several factors :  भ्रष्टाचार  - Chiang  लिखा   in  his diary on June 1948 that  the  KMT  था   विफल   ,   नहीं   क्युकी   of  external enemies but because  of  rot from  भीतर  .
दमदार  initial support from the U.S. diminished , and then ,  रोका   .
(  Partly  क्युकी   of  KMT corruption and anti-democratic regime , and partly  क्युकी   of  the  अनिश्चित  U.S.  विदेशी  policy  towards   साम्यवादी  between  1945  and 1950 ) ; Communist land  सुधार  policy promised poor peasants farmland from their landlords  .
This  ensured  PLA popular support  .
After the  आत्मसमर्पण  of Japan  at  the  समाप्त  of  संसार  War II , Soviet forces turned over  उनके   captured   जापानी   हथियार  to the CPC and allowed the CPC to  लो   कंट्रोल  of territory  in  Manchuria .
To  इस   दिन  ,  no  armistice or  सलाम  treaty has ever been signed , and it is debated as  to  the whether the  सिविल   युद्ध  has legally  ended  .
Cross-Strait  संबंध  have been  hindered  by military threats  और  political and economic pressure  ,  particularly  over   ताईवान  's political status  ,  with both governments  officially   adhering  to  a  ``  one-china  policy  .   ''
the  PRC still  actively  claims Taiwan as  भाग  of its territory and  continues  to threaten the ROC with a military invasion if  the   आरओसी  officially declares independence by changing its name to and gaining  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  recognition as  the  Republic of Taiwan .
The ROC mutually claims  मेनलैंड  China , and they both continue the fight  over   राजनयिक   मान्यता   .
Today , the war  as   ऐसे  occurs on the political and economic fronts in the form of cross-Strait relations ; however , the two  पृथक   de   facto  states have  बंद  economic ties .
The One Hundred  बारहवीं  United  राज्य  Congress was the  बैठक   of  the  विधान  branch of the United States federal government  ,   इससे  January 3 , 2011 until January  3  , 2013 .
It convened in Washington ,  d.C.   on   जनवरी  3  ,  2011 , and ended on January 3 , 2013 , 17 days before the end of the  अध्यक्षीय   पद  to which  बराक  Obama was  निर्वाचित  in 2008 .
सीनेटरों  elected to regular  शर्तें  in 2006 completed  those  terms  in  this Congress .
This  कॉंग्रेस   शामिल  the last House of Representatives elected from congressional districts  कि  were  apportioned  based  on  the  2000  census  .
In the  2010   मध्यावधि  elections ,  the  Republican Party won  the  majority in the House  of  Representatives .
While the  डेमोक्रेट   रखा  their Senate  बहुमत  , it  थी  reduced from the previous Congress  .
This  थी  the first Congress in which the House and Senate were controlled by different parties since  the  107th Congress ( 2001–2003 ) , and the first Congress to begin that way since  the   99th   कॉंग्रेस  (  1985–1987  ) .
In this  कॉंग्रेस   ,  the House of Representatives had the  largest  number of  रिपब्लिकन  members , 242 , since the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949  )  .
it  was also  the   पहला  Congress  चूंकि  1947 in which no member of the Kennedy  परिवार  served , as  खूब  as the most politically polarized  कॉंग्रेस  since Reconstruction  ,  with  रिकार्ड   कम  approval  दरजा  .
माल  in the United States is commonly measured in  शर्तें  of net  लायक  , which is the sum of all  एसेट  , including home equity , minus  सब  liabilities .
the  total  जाल  worth of  us  households and  nonprofit   संगठन  1945–2009 , unadjusted for  महंगाई  or population change .
For example , a household in possession  of   an  $ 800,000 house , $ 5,000 in mutual funds  ,  $ 30,000 in  गाड़ियाँ  , $ 20,000 worth of stock in their  अपना  company , and  a   $  45,000 IRA would  have  assets totaling $  900,000  .
Assuming that  इस  household would have a $ 250,000 mortgage  ,   $  40,000  in   car  loans  ,  and $  10,000  in credit card debt , its debts  होता  total $ 300,000 .
Subtracting the debts from the worth of this  household   's  assets ( 900,000  -  $  300,000  = $ 600,000 ) ,  इस  household  होता   have   a  net worth of $  600,000  .
Net worth  can  vary  साथ  fluctuations in value of the  underlying  assets  .
the  wealth —more specifically , the median  जाल  worth—of households in  the   संयुक्त  States is varied  साथ   संबंध   to  race , education , geographic location and gender .
As  एक   होता   expect  , households with greater  आय  feature the highest net worths , though high income can not be  लिया  as an always accurate  indicator   of  net worth .
overall  the number of wealthier  households  is on the rise ,  साथ  baby boomers  hitting  the  highs  of their careers .
In addition , wealth  is  unevenly  वितरित  , with  the  wealthiest  25  %  of  US households owning  87   %  of  the  wealth  in  the United  राज्य  ,  जिससे  was $ 54.2 trillion  in   2009  .
Including human  पूंजी   ऐसे  as skills ,  the  United  राष्ट्र   अनुमानित  the  कुल  wealth  of  the  संयुक्त  States in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion  .
This  आलेख  deals with  चयनात्मक  Dorsal  rhizotomy  ( SDR ) rather than  the  rhizotomy procedures for  पीड़ा  relief  ;  for those  प्रक्रियाओं  , which have begun to take the name `` rhizotomy ''  in   निश्चित  instances , see facet rhizotomy and  समान  .
A rhizotomy  (  )  is  a term chiefly referring to  a   neurosurgical   कार्यविधि  that selectively  नष्ट  problematic nerve roots in  the  spinal  cord   ,  most often  to  relieve  the  symptoms  of  neuromuscular  शर्तें  such as  spastic  diplegia  और   अन्य  forms  of  spastic cerebral  palsy  .
The selective dorsal  rhizotomy  (  sdr   )  for spastic cerebral  palsy  has been the  प्रमुख  use  of  rhizotomy for  neurosurgeons  specialising  in  spastic CP since the  1980s  ; in this  सर्जरी   ,   the  spasticity-causing nerves are  पृथक   और  then targeted and destroyed  .
The sensory nerve roots , where spasticity is located  ,  are first separated from  the  motor ones , and the nerve fibres to be  काटें  are then identified via electromyographic stimulation  .
The  ones  producing  spasticity  are then selectively lesioned  साथ  tiny electrical pulses .
In spasticity , rhizotomy precisely  लक्ष्य   और  destroys  the   क्षतिग्रस्त  nerves  कि   don’t   प्राप्त  gamma amino butyric acid ,  जिससे  is the  कोर  problem for people with spastic cerebral palsy  .
These over-firing ,  non-gaba-absorbing   nerves   generate  unusual electrical activity during  the  EMG testing  phase  in SDR and are  यूँ  considered to  be   the  source of  the  patient 's hypertonia  ;   वे   हैं  eliminated with the electrical  pulses   एकबार   पहचाना  ,  जबकि  the remaining nerves and  तंत्रिका  routes carrying  the  correct messages remain  fully  intact and  untouched  .
This means that the spasticity is  permanently   dissolved  ,  और  that  इस  is done without  affecting   बेचैन  system  संवेदनशीलता  or function in  अन्य  areas  ,   क्युकी  the  तभी  nerves destroyed  हैं   the  over-firing ones responsible for the muscle tightness .
The terms rhizotomy  और  neurotomy are also  increasingly   बनने  interchangeable in  the   उपचार  of  दीर्घकालिक   वापस  pain from  अपक्षयी  disc disease .
This  is  a procedure called  a   facet   rhizotomy  and is not a  सर्जिकल  procedure but is instead done on  an  outpatient basis  using  a simple probe  to  apply radiofrequency  लहरें  to the  impinged   pain-causing  nerve  रूट  lying between the facet joint  और   the  vertebral  देह   .
Such radio frequency nerve lesioning  परिणाम  in five to  आठ   or   अधिक   महीने  of pain relief  पहले  the nerve  regenerates   और   another  round of the procedure needs to be performed .
A facet rhizotomy is just one of many  अलग  forms of radiofrequency ablation , and its  उपयोग   of   the  ``  rhizotomy  '' name should not  be  confused with the SDR  कार्यविधि  .
Migrant workers in California ,  1935
the   पद  migrant  कार्यकर्ता  has  अलग  official meanings  और   connotations  in different parts of  the  world .
The  संयुक्त  Nations ' definition  is   व्यापक  , including  कोई   लोगों  working  बाहर   of  their home country  .
The term can also  be   प्रयुक्त  to  describe   किसी  who migrates  भीतर  a  देश   ,  possibly  उनके  own , in order to pursue work  ऐसे  as seasonal work  .
Photograph of  लील   वेन   साथ   teardrop  tattoos below his  आँखें  .
The teardrop tattoo  or   आंसू  tattoo is a symbolic  टैटू  that  is  placed  underneath  the eye  .
it  has no fixed  अर्थ  but almost all meanings  (  see below  )  have some connection  to  prison .
U.S. Route 75  is  a north–south U.S.  राजमार्ग  .
The highway  's   उत्तरी  terminus is in  kittson  County  ,   मिनेसोटा  , at  the  Canadian border , where it  एकबार   जारी   as  Manitoba Highway 75 on  the  other side of  the  now-closed  किनारा  crossing  .
Its southern  टर्मिनस  is at  अंतरराज्यीय  30 and Interstate  45  in Dallas ,  टेक्सास   ,  where it  is   ज्ञात   as  North  सेंट्रल   एक्सप्रेसवे  .
u.S.  75 was  a  border-to-border  रूट  , from Canada  to   the  Gulf  of   मैक्सिको  at  galveston   ,  Texas  .
However , the entire segment south  of   डलास  ,  टेक्सास  has  महरूम   decommissioned  in favor of  अंतरराज्यीय   45   ,  a cutoff  खण्ड   of  town-to-town  सतह   सड़क  having become State Highway  75   .
Lower Ninth  वार्ड  is a neighborhood of the city  of   नई  Orleans .
As the name  implies  , it is part  of  the Ninth Ward of New Orleans  .
the  Lower Ninth Ward  is   प्रायः  thought  of  as the entire  क्षेत्रफल  within New  ऑरलियन्स  downriver of the Industrial  कनाल  ;  however  , the City Planning Commission divides this area into the Lower Ninth Ward  (  2 ) and Holy  क्रॉस  ( 3  )  neighborhoods  .
the  term ``  निम्नतर  ''  refers   to  its location farther  towards  the mouth of the  मिसिसिपी  River , `` down '' or `` below  ''  the rest of the  नगर   in  local  भौगोलिक  terminology  .
But  the  9th Ward  ,   जैसे  all Wards in New Orleans  ,  is a voting district .
The 9th Ward  थी  added  as  a voting district in 1852 .
the  `` lower '' 9th Ward  is  composed of Ward 9  जिले  1  ,  2  ,  4  ,  and 7  जिससे  make up  the  Holy Cross  क्षेत्रफल   और   वार्ड  9  जिले  3  ,   5  ,  6  , and 8  .
Higher  मतदान   ज़िला  numbers  in  the 9th Ward  (  8-27  )   हैं  on the  upriver  side  of   the  Industrial Canal .
the   क्षेत्रफल  came  to   नेशनल  attention  लिये   इसके  devastation in the aftermath of  hurricane  Katrina in  2005  .
Hubble  दृश्य  of Copernicus crater  (  inset ) , which is  परिचय   58  miles ( 93  km  ) wide
Red and orange tinted Moon ,  as  seen from  धरती  during a lunar eclipse , where the Earth  आता  between the  चंद्रमा  and Sun
The Moon is the only  प्राकृतिक  satellite of the  धरती  , and the fifth  largest  satellite in the Solar  प्रणाली  .
it   is   the  largest natural satellite of  a   ग्रह  in the Solar System relative to  the   आकार  of  इसके  primary ,  having   27  % the diameter and 60 % the density of Earth  ,   resulting  in  इसके  mass .
The Moon  is  the second densest satellite after Io , a satellite of Jupiter  .
The Moon is  in  synchronous rotation with Earth , always  प्रर्दशित  the same face  साथ  its near  पक्ष  marked  by  dark  volcanic   मरिया  that fill between  the  bright ancient  crustal  highlands and the  prominent  impact  craters  .
It  is  the  brightest  object  in   the   आसमान  after the Sun , although  इसके   सतह  is actually very  अंधेरा  ,  साथ  a reflectance similar  to  that of coal .
इसके  prominence  in  the sky and  इसके  regular cycle  of  phases have , since ancient times ,  बना  the  चंद्रमा  an important  सांस्कृतिक  influence on language , calendars  ,  art and mythology .
The  चंद्रमा  's gravitational  influence  produces the ocean tides  और  the minute lengthening of the day .
The  चंद्रमा   's  current orbital distance , about thirty times the diameter of  the   धरती  , causes it  to  appear almost the same size  in  the  आसमान  as the Sun  ,  allowing  it  to  कवर  the Sun  nearly  precisely in total solar  eclipses   .
इस  matching  of   apparent   विज़ुअल  size is a coincidence .
The  चंद्रमा  's linear  अलहदा  from the  धरती  is currently increasing at a rate of  3.82±0.07cm   प्रति  year , but this rate  is   नहीं   निरंतर  .
the   चंद्रमा  is thought  to  have  formed   nearly   4.5   अरब  years ago  ,   नहीं  long  बाद  the  धरती  .
Although there have been several  hypotheses  for  इसके  origin in  the  past ,  the  current most widely accepted explanation is that the Moon formed from  the  debris left over after a giant  प्रभाव   between   धरती  and  a   मंगल  -sized body .
The  चंद्रमा  is the  तभी  celestial body other  than   धरती  on which humans  have  set foot  .
The Soviet Union  's   luna  programme was the  पहला  to reach the  चंद्रमा   साथ  unmanned  spacecraft  in 1959 ; the  संयुक्त  States ' NASA Apollo program achieved the only manned missions to  तिथि  , beginning with  the  first manned lunar orbiting mission by Apollo  8   in   1968  , and six manned lunar  अवतरण  between 1969  और   1972   ,  with  the  first being Apollo 11 .
These missions returned over 380 kg  of   चंद्र  rocks , which have been used  to  develop a  geological  understanding of the Moon 's origins , the  गठन  of  इसके  internal  ढांचा   ,  and its  subsequent   इतिहास  .
After the Apollo  17   मिशन  in 1972  ,  the Moon has been  visited   तभी   by  unmanned  spacecraft  ,  notably  by  the  final  सोवियत  Lunokhod  रोवर  .
Since 2004  ,   जापानी   ,  China ,  इण्डिया  , the United States ,  और  the European  स्पेस  Agency have each sent lunar orbiters  .
These  spacecraft  have  contributed  to confirming the discovery  of  lunar water  बर्फ  in permanently shadowed craters at the poles  और   बंधी  into the lunar regolith .
भविष्य  manned  मिशन  to  the  Moon have  महरूम  planned , including government as well  as  privately  वित्तपोषित   प्रयत्न  .
the  Moon remains , under the  बाहरी   स्पेस  Treaty , free  to   सब   राष्ट्र   to   explore  for peaceful purposes .
Ronald Wilson Reagan  (  ;  फ़रवरी  6 , 1911  –  June  5   ,   2004   )  was the 40th  अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त  States ( 1981–1989 )  .
prior  to that , he was  the   33rd  Governor of California (  1967–1975  ) ,  और  a radio ,  फिल्मी   और  television actor  .
Born in  tampico  , Illinois , and raised in  डिक्सन   ,  Reagan was educated at Eureka College  ,  earning a Bachelor  of  Arts degree in economics  और  sociology .
बाद  graduating , Reagan  स्थानांतरित  first  to  Iowa to work as a  रेडियो   प्रसारणकर्ता  and  तब   ,   in  1937 , to  लॉस  Angeles where he began a career  as  an  कर्ता  , first in films and later television .
Some  of   उसके  most  notable  films include  knute  Rockne ,  सब  American ( 1940  )   ,   किंग्स  Row (  1942  )  ,  and Bedtime for Bonzo ( 1951 ) .
Reagan served as  अध्यक्ष  of the  स्क्रीन  Actors Guild  और   बाद  as  a   प्रवक्ता   लिये  General Electric  (  GE  )   ;  his start in politics  occurred  during his work  लिये   ge  .
originally  a member of the  लोकतांत्रिक   पार्टी   ,  his positions began shifting rightward in the 1950s  ,  and he switched to  the  Republican Party  in  1962 .
After delivering a  rousing  speech in support of Barry Goldwater  's   अध्यक्षीय  candidacy  in  1964 ,  he   थी  persuaded to seek  the  California governorship , winning  दो  years later and again in 1970 .
He was  पराजित  in his run  लिये   the  Republican  अध्यक्षीय  nomination in 1968  और  in 1976 ,  लकिन  won both the  नामांकन  and general election in 1980 , defeating incumbent  jimmy  Carter  .
As president , Reagan implemented  sweeping   नई   राजनैतिक   और   आर्थिक   पहलों  .
उसके   supply-side  economic policies , dubbed  ``  Reaganomics  ``  ,  advocated   reducing  tax rates  to  spur economic growth  ,  controlling  the  money  सप्लाई  to reduce inflation , deregulation  of  the economy , and reducing government spending .
In his first term  he  survived  an   हत्या  attempt ,  took  a hard  लकीर   विरूद्ध  labor unions  ,  announced  a   नई   युद्ध  on Drugs  ,  and ordered an invasion of Grenada .
he   थी  re-elected  in   a  landslide  in  1984 , proclaiming  कि  it was `` Morning in America `` .
His second term was  primarily  marked by  विदेशी  matters ,  ऐसे  as the  समाप्ति  of the  ठंडा   युद्ध  , the 1986  bombing  of  लीबिया   ,   और   the  revelation  of   the  Iran-Contra  affair  .
सरेआम  describing the  सोवियत  Union as an `` evil  साम्राज्य  `` , he  समर्थित   anti-communist  movements worldwide  और  spent his first term forgoing the strategy of détente  by  ordering a massive military buildup in an arms race with the  ussr   .
Reagan  negotiated   साथ   सोवियत  General Secretary Mikhail  गोर्बाचेव  ,  culminating   in  the INF  सन्धि  and the decrease  of  both countries ' nuclear arsenals .
Reagan left  दफ्तर  in  1989   .
In 1994 , the  पूर्व  president disclosed  कि   he  had  महरूम  diagnosed with Alzheimer  's   बीमारी  earlier in the year  ;  he  died  ten years later at  the  age of  93   .
a  conservative icon  ,  he ranks  अत्यधिक  in public opinion  पोल  of U.S.  राष्ट्रपतियों  and is credited for generating an ideological renaissance  on   the  American political right .
Complete set of scrolls ,  constituting  the entire Tanakh .
The  tanakh   (   ,  or ;  भी   tenakh   ,   tenak  , Tanach )  is   a  name used in  judaism  for the canon  of  the Hebrew Bible  .
the  Tanakh is  भी  known as the Masoretic  टेक्स्ट   or   the  Miqra .
The name  is   an  acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text  's  three traditional  subdivisions  : The  तोरा  ( `` Teaching  ''  ,  भी   ज्ञात   as  the Five Books  of  Moses  )  , Nevi'im ( ``  नबियों  '' )  और  Ketuvim  (  `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh  .
the  name  ``   miqra   ''  ( מקרא  )  , meaning `` that which is read  ''  , is  an  alternative Hebrew term for  the  Tanakh  .
The  किताबे  of the Tanakh  यहूद  relayed  साथ  an  accompanying  oral tradition  passed  on by each generation ,  पुकारा   the  Oral Torah .
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R  is   a  Kawasaki 600 cc  क्लास  sport motorcycle  .
it  was  introduced  in  1995  , and  रै  been constantly updated throughout the years in response to new  उत्पाद  from Honda  ,  Suzuki , and Yamaha  .
The ZX series is  कया   थी  known  as  the Ninja line of Kawasaki motorcycles in the 1980s and still carries the  नाम  today  .
हत्या  attempts and  भूखंड  on Presidents  of   the  United States have been numerous : more than  20   कोशिशें  to kill sitting and  पूर्व  presidents , as well  as  the Presidents-elect , are known .
Four  बैठे   राष्ट्रपतियों  have been  मारे  : Abraham Lincoln (  the  16th President ) , James  A.  Garfield  (   the  20th President  )  , William  mckinley   (   the  25th President ) and John  F.  Kennedy ( the 35th President  )  .
Two presidents  यहूद  injured in attempted assassinations : former President Theodore  रूज़वेल्ट   (  the 26th  अध्यक्ष  ) , and President Ronald  reagan   (  the 40th  अध्यक्ष  ) .
Although the  इतिहासकार  J.W .  क्लार्क  has suggested  कि  most American assassinations were  नीतियां  motivated  क्रियाएँ   ,  carried out by  तर्कसंगत   मेन  ,  नहीं   सब  such  हमले   have  been  undertaken   लिये  political  कारण  .
Some  हमलावर  had questionable mental stability , and a  few   यहूद   judged  legally insane .
Since  the  Vice President of the United States has for more  than  a century  महरूम  elected  इससे  the same political party as the President , the  हत्या   of  the President is unlikely to result  in   प्रमुख  policy changes .
This may explain why political groups typically  do  not make  ऐसे   हमले  .
जहाँ   the  Red  फर्न  Grows is a novel written by  विल्सन   राल्स  in 1961  परिचय  a boy who buys  और  trains two Redbone Coonhound hunting dogs .
ओक्लाहोमा   (  ) ( Pawnee :  uukuhuúwa   ,  Cayuga :  gahnawiyoˀgeh   )  is a state located in West South  सेंट्रल  United States .
Oklahoma is  the   20th  most extensive and the 28th  सबसे  populous of the 50 United  राज्य  .
The  राज्य  's  नाम   is  derived  इससे  the  choctaw  words okla and humma  ,   अर्थ   ``  red people  ''   ,   और  it  is  known  informally  by  इसके   उपनाम  ,  the  Sooner  राज्य  .
formed   by  the  संयोजन  of  ओक्लाहोमा  Territory and Indian Territory on November 16 , 1907 ,  ओक्लाहोमा   थी  the  46th  state to enter the union .
इसके  residents  हैं  known  as  Oklahomans or  ,  informally  ``  Okies  ''  ,  और  its capital and largest  नगर   is  Oklahoma City .
A major  निर्माता   of   प्राकृतिक   गैस   ,  oil , and  कृषि  ,  ओक्लाहोमा  relies  on  an economic base  of  aviation  ,  energy , telecommunications , and biotechnology .
It  रै  one  of  the  तीव्रतम   growing  economies  in  the nation , ranking among the top states in per capita income  विकास  and gross domestic product  विकास   .
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's  प्राथमिक  economic anchors ,  साथ  nearly two thirds  of  Oklahomans living within their metropolitan statistical areas .
With small  पहाड़  ranges , prairie , mesas ,  और  eastern  वनों  , most of Oklahoma lies  in  the Great  मैदान  and the  u.s   .  Interior Highlands —a  प्रदेश  especially  prone  to severe weather  .
in  addition  to   having  a prevalence of English ,  जर्मनी  ,  स्कॉटिश   ,   आयरिश  and Native  अमरीकी   ancestry  , more than 25  देशी  American languages are  बोला   in   ओक्लाहोमा  , second only to California  .
Oklahoma is located on  a  confluence of  तीन  major American cultural regions  और  historically served  as   a   रूट  for  चौपायों   ड्राइव  ,  a  destination for  दक्षिणी  settlers , and a  government-sanctioned  territory  लिये  Native Americans  .
Redwall , by  ब्रायन   ज़ाक   ,  is  a   श्रेणी  of children 's fantasy  novels  .
it   is   the  title  of  the first book  of  the series , published in 1986  ,  as  खूब   as  the name of the Abbey  प्रदर्शित  in the book  और  the name  of  an animated TV series based  on   तीन  of the novels ( Redwall , Mattimeo ,  और   मार्टिन  the Warrior ) , which first  aired  in  1999  .
the  books  हैं  primarily  aimed  at  पुरानी  children  ,  but have fans of all ages  .
वहीँ  have  महरूम   twenty-two  novels and  दो   चित्र  books  प्रकाशित  .
The twenty-second  ,   और  final  ,  novel , The  दुष्ट  Crew  ,  was  मरणोपरांत   released  on May 3  ,  2011  .
Natural  गैस  is usually measured  by  volume  in   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  and is stated in cubic feet .
a  cubic  पैर  of  गैस   is   the  amount  of  gas needed to  भरण  a  आवाज़   of   एक   घन  foot under  नियत  conditions of pressure and temperature.To measure  larger  amounts of  प्राकृतिक  gas  ,  a  ``  therm  ''   is  used  to  denote  100  cubic feet , and `` mcf '' is  प्रयुक्त   to  denote 1,000  घन   फीट  .
to  provide  वृहद  accuracy in  comparing  fuels , energy  सामग्री  is measured  in   शर्तें   of   ``  British Thermal Units (  btu   's  ) . ''
A BTU  is  the amount of heat required  to  raise one pound of water  (  approximately  a  pint ) , one degree Fahrenheit at  or  close to  इसके  point of maximum density .
One British therm  (  symbol thm  )  is a  non-  SI  ईकाई   of   ऊष्मा  energy  बराबर  to 100,000  अंग्रेजों   थर्मल   इकाई   (  BTU ) .
It  is  approximately the energy equivalent of burning 100 cubic feet (  प्रायः  referred  to  as 1 CCF  )  of  प्राकृतिक  gas .
Since ( Natural  गैस  ) meters measure volume and not energy content ,  a  therm factor  is  used  by  ( Natural ) gas companies to convert the volume of gas  प्रयुक्त  to its heat  समतुल्य  , and thus calculate  the  actual  उर्जा   उपयोग   .
The  therm  factor is usually  in  the units  therms/ccf   .
It will vary with the  मिक्सर  of  hydrocarbons  in the natural gas .
Natural gas with a higher  than  average concentration  of  ethane ,  प्रोपेन  or  ब्यूटेन  will  have  a  उच्चतर  therm factor .
Impurities  ,   ऐसे  as carbon  डाइऑक्साइड  or nitrogen  ,   निम्नतर   the  therm  फ़ैक्टर  .
the  volume of  the  gas  is  calculated  as  if  measured  at  मानक  temperature and pressure  (   stp  ) .
the  heat content of natural gas is  solely  dependent on  the  composition of  the  gas  ,  and is independent  of  temperature  और   दबाव  .
एक  therm is equal  to  about 105.5 megajoules ,  25,200  kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours .
एक   therm  can  भी  be  provided   by   परिचय  of natural gas .
The therm sometimes has  महरूम  confused with  the  thermie ( see below ) .
The  names  of both  इकाई   आइये  from the Greek  शब्द  for heat .
A thermie  (   th  )  is   a  metric  ईकाई  of heat  उर्जा  ,  भाग  of the  meter-tonne-second   प्रणाली   sometimes  used by European engineers .
The  thermie  is equal to  the  amount of  उर्जा  required to raise the  तापमान   of   1  tonne of water by 1  °c   .
The  thermie  is equivalent to 1,000 kilocalories , 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3  btu   .
The  अमरीकी  Civil  युद्ध  ( ACW ) , also known as the War between  the  States or simply the Civil  युद्ध  ( see  नामकरण  )  ,  was a civil war fought from 1861  to   1865  between the United  राज्य   (  the `` Union '' or the ``  उत्तर  '' ) and  अनेक  Southern  स्लेव  states  कि  declared their  secession  and  formed   the  Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the ``  दक्षिण  '' ) .
The war had its origin  in  the issue of  गुलामी   ,  especially the extension  of  slavery into the western territories .
Foreign  शक्तियां  did not  intervene  .
After four years of  खूनी  combat that left  over   600,000  soldiers dead and  नष्ट   much  of the South  's   अवसंरचना   ,  the  confederacy  collapsed  ,  slavery was abolished , and the  मुश्किल  Reconstruction  प्रक्रम  of  restoring  national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential  चुनाव   ,  Republicans ,  led  by  अब्राहम  Lincoln , opposed  expanding   गुलामी   into   संयुक्त  States '  territories  .
lincoln  won , but  पहले   उसके  inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave  राज्य   formed  the Confederacy .
outgoing  Democratic  अध्यक्ष  James Buchanan and  the  incoming  republicans  rejected secession as  illegal  .
lincoln  's inaugural address  घोषित   उसके  administration would not initiate civil war  .
आठ  remaining slave states  जारी  to reject calls for  secession  .
Confederate  शक्तियां  seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A  सलाम  Conference failed  to  find a compromise , and  दोनो   पहलू  prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent  on  `` King Cotton  ``  that they  होता   intervene  ; none  किया  and none recognized the  नई  Confederate States of  अमेरिका  .
hostilities  began  on  April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate  शक्तियां  fired upon Fort Sumter ,  a   कुंजी   फोर्ट  held  by   संघ  troops in South Carolina .
lincoln   पुकारा  for each  राज्य  to  provide  troops to retake the fort ;  नतीजतन   ,   चार  more  स्लेव  states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union  जल्द  controlled the  किनारा  states  और   स्थापित   a  naval blockade that crippled the southern  अर्थव्यवस्था  .
the  Eastern Theater  थी   inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
the   पतझड़  1862  confederate  campaign  into  Maryland (  a  Union state  )  ended with Confederate retreat at  the  Battle  of   antietam  , dissuading British  हस्तक्षेप   .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation , which made ending  गुलामी  a war  लक्ष्य   .
To the west , by summer 1862 the  संघ  destroyed  the  Confederate river navy  ,  then  much  of their western armies  ,  and the  संघ   at  Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two  at  the  मिसिसिपी  River .
In  1863  , Robert E.  ली  's Confederate incursion north ended at  the  Battle of Gettysburg .
पश्चिमी  successes led  to   ulysses  S. Grant command of  सब  Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman  drove  east  to  capture Atlanta and marched  to  the sea , destroying Confederate  अवसंरचना  along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources  और   जनशक्ति  to attack the Confederacy from all  दिशानिर्देश   ,   और   could  afford  to  fight battles of attrition  through  the  overland  Campaign  towards  Richmond ,  the   confederate   पूंजी  .
the  defending  confederate   फौज  failed  ,   अग्रणी   to  Lee  's  surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court  हाउस  on April  9  ,  1865  .
The American Civil War was  एक  of  the   earliest   सच्चा  industrial  युद्धों  .
Railroads  ,  the telegraph  ,  steamships  ,  and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization  of   civilian  factories ,  खानों  ,  shipyards  ,  बैंको  ,  परिवहन  and food  आपूर्तियाँ  all foreshadowed  संसार  War I .
It  remains  the  deadliest  war  in  American history ,  resulting  in the deaths of an  अनुमानित  750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston  estimates   the   मौत  toll at ten percent of all Northern  males  20–45 years  बूढ़ा  , and 30  प्रतिशत  of all Southern white males aged 18–40  .
William Bruce  जेनर  ( born  अक्तूबर  28 , 1949 )  is  a former  u.S.   track  and  फ़ील्ड   खिलाड़ी   ,  motivational speaker , socialite , television personality and  बिजनेसमैन  .
He won the  सुनहरा  medal for decathlon  in  the Montreal  1976  Summer Olympics .
Following his  ओलम्पिक  win  और  the related recognition , he married Kris  कार्दशियन  , and his  पेशेवर  career  विकसित  into  होने  a television celebrity .
by   1981  , he had  स्ट्रक्चर  in several  made-for-tv  movies and  थी   erik  Estrada 's  बदलना  on  the  top rated TV  श्रेणी  CHiPs .
He has  छह   children   :  Burt ,  केसी  , Brandon , Brody , Kendall and Kylie  .
चूंकि  his 1991 marriage  to  Kris Jenner , he  is  the stepfather to  कोर्टनी  ,  किम  , Khloe and Rob Kardashian  .
Since 2007  ,  he has appeared with  उसके  blended family on Keeping Up with  the   kardashians   .
Escherichia  कोलाई   (   ;   commonly  abbreviated  E.   कोलाई  ) is a Gram-negative ,  rod-shaped  bacterium  कि  is commonly found in the  निम्नतर   आंत  of warm-blooded  जीवों  ( endotherms )  .
सबसे  E.  कोलाई   strains  are harmless , but some serotypes can cause serious food poisoning in  इंसानो  , and  हैं  occasionally responsible for product recalls  due   to  food contamination  .
the   हानिरहित  strains are  भाग  of  the  normal  फ्लोरा   of  the gut  ,  and can benefit their  होस्ट  by  producing   विटामिन   k2  , and  by  preventing the  स्थापना  of pathogenic  जीवाणु  within the intestine .
E.  कोलाई  and  सम्बन्धित  bacteria constitute about 0.1 %  of  gut flora , and fecal–oral transmission  is  the  प्रमुख   रूट  through  जिससे  pathogenic  strains   of   the  bacterium  कारण  disease  .
Cells are able to survive outside the body for  a  limited  राशि  of time ,  जिससे  makes  उन्हें  ideal indicator organisms to test  पर्यावरणीय   नमूने  for fecal contamination .
There  is  , however ,  a   growing  body  of  research that  रै   examined  environmentally persistent  E.  coli which can  जीवित  for extended periods  बाहर   of  the  मेजबान  .
The bacterium  can  also  be  grown  easily  and  inexpensively  in  a   प्रयोगशाला  setting , and has been intensively investigated  लिये  over 60 years .
E. coli is  the  most  widely   पढ़ाई  prokaryotic model  सजीव   ,  and an important species  in  the  फ़ील्ड   of  biotechnology  और  microbiology , where it has served as the host organism for  the  majority  of  work with  recombinant  DNA .
Area  कोड  217 is the North American telephone area code  लिये  much of western and central  इलिनोइस  .
the  217  क्षेत्रफल  includes Illinois '  पूंजी   ,  Springfield  ,  plus Champaign ,  urbana  , Decatur , Danville ,  क्विंसी  ,  और  Rantoul .
217   थी  one  of  the original area codes ,  जिससे  were created  in   1947  .
the  only  significant  change  in   217   's   सीमाएँ  was  in  1957 , when its northern portion  थी   संयुक्त  with part of area code 815  to   रूप  area code 309 .
Image of the largest Antarctic ozone hole ever  अंकित  ( September  2006  )  ,  over the Southern  ध्रुव
Layers of the atmosphere ( not to scale )
Ozone  depletion  describes two distinct but  सम्बन्धित  phenomena observed since the late 1970s  :  a  स्थिर  decline  of  about  4  %  प्रति  decade  in  the total volume  of   ओज़ोन   in  Earth  's  stratosphere (  the  ozone layer  )  , and a much larger  springtime  decrease in  stratospheric   ओज़ोन   over  Earth 's polar regions  .
The latter phenomenon is referred to as the ozone hole .
In addition to these  well-known  stratospheric phenomena , there are also springtime polar tropospheric ozone depletion events .
The details of polar ozone hole  गठन   differ  from that of mid-latitude thinning , but the most important process  in  both is catalytic  विनाश  of  ओज़ोन  by  परमाणु   हैलोजन्स  .
The  प्रमुख  source  of   ये   हैलोजन  atoms  in  the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made  halocarbon  refrigerants (  cfcs  , freons  ,   halons  )  .
ये  compounds are transported  into   the   stratosphere   बाद   होने  emitted at  the  surface  .
Both types of ozone  depletion   यहूद   observed  to increase as emissions of  halo-carbons   increased  .
cfcs  and  अन्य  contributory  substances  are referred  to  as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ) .
Since the  ओज़ोन  layer  रोकता  most harmful UVB  wavelengths  ( 280–315 nm  )  of  पराबैंगनी   लाइट   (  UV light ) from passing through  the   धरती  's  माहौल  ,  observed  and projected decreases  in  ozone have generated worldwide concern  अग्रणी  to  अपनाना  of  the  Montreal Protocol  कि  bans  the  production of CFCs , halons ,  और  other  ozone-depleting  chemicals such as carbon  tetrachloride  and trichloroethane .
It  is   suspected  that a variety  of  biological  consequences  such as  increases  in skin  कर्कट  , cataracts , damage to plants , and reduction of plankton  populations  in  the   समंदर  's photic zone may result from the increased UV exposure  due  to ozone depletion  .
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a  ब्रैड   परिचयात्मक  statement of the  संविधान  's fundamental purposes and guiding principles .
It  राज्य   in  general  शर्तें  ,  और   न्यायालयों  have referred to it as reliable  प्रमाण  of  ,  the  founding  Fathers ' intentions regarding  the  Constitution 's meaning and what  वे  hoped the Constitution would  achieve  as  it  pertains to all of the people  of  the United  राज्य  .
as  the phrase , ``  we   the   लोगों   ''  suggests  कि  the  नई   सरकारी   originates  from  the  people of the United  राज्य  and it  सेट  into motion  a  question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the  व्यक्तिगत   अधिकारों  and equality  among   सब  people  ;  this can be seen most  broadly  in  the  divide between  republicanism  and  सोशल  democracy .
Czechoslovakian shot putter Plihan at  the   1957  East German Indoor Athletics Championships
the   शॉट  put ( pronounced )  is   a   track  and field  इवेंट   involving  `` throwing '' /  ''   putting  '' ( throwing in  a  pushing motion ) a heavy spherical object —the shot—as  दूर  as  संभावित  .
The  शॉट  put competition for men has been a  भाग  of  the  modern Olympics since their  पुनरुद्धार   in   1896  , women 's  प्रतियोगिता  began  in  1948 .
मैप  of  the  United  राष्ट्र  ( UN )  सदस्य  states ,  साथ  their  territories  ( including dependent  territories   )   पहचाना  by the UN  in   ब्लू
There are United Nations  (   un  ) member states , and each  of   उन्हें  is a  सदस्य   of  the  संयुक्त  Nations  सामान्य  Assembly  .
The criteria  लिये  admission of new members are  नियत   आउट  in the United Nations  चार्टर  , Chapter II  ,  Article  4:
a   अनुशंसा  for admission from the  सुरक्षा  Council requires affirmative  मत   इससे   at  least nine of  the  council  's  fifteen  सदस्यों  , with none of  the  five permanent members  मतदान   विरूद्ध  .
the  Security Council 's  अनुशंसा  must then be  subsequently   स्वीकृत  in the General Assembly by a two-thirds  बहुमत   vote  .
In principle  ,  only  sovereign  states  can  become  un   सदस्यों  , and currently all UN members  हैं  sovereign states  (   हालांकि   a   few  members were  नहीं   sovereign  when they  joined  the UN  )   .
Because a state can only be admitted to the  un  by the approval of the Security Council and the General  सभा   ,  a number of states that may be  माना  sovereign states according to the Montevideo  सम्मेलन   मापदण्ड  are  नहीं  members because  the  UN does not  consider   उन्हें   to  possess sovereignty  ,   मुख्यतः  due to the lack  of  international  मान्यता   or  opposition  इससे   निश्चित  members .
in  addition to the member states , the UN also invites  non-member  states ( currently two : the  पावन   देखिए   और   फिलिस्तीन  ) ,  intergovernmental  organizations , and other international organizations and entities whose statehood  or  sovereignty are  नहीं  precisely defined , to become observers  at  the General Assembly , allowing  उन्हें  to participate and speak ,  लकिन  not vote , in General Assembly meetings .
The Eiffel Tower (  ,  ) is an iron  जाली  tower located  on  the Champ de Mars in Paris ,  नामित   बाद  the engineer Gustave  एफिल  , whose company designed and built the tower .
Erected  in   1889  as the  प्रवेश   मेहराब  to the 1889 World 's  मेला   ,   it  has  become  both a global  सांस्कृतिक   प्रतीक   of  France and one  of   the  most recognizable  structures  in  the   संसार  .
The tower is the tallest structure in Paris and the most-visited paid monument in  the   संसार  ; 7.1 million people ascended  it   in  2011  .
The third  स्तर  observatory  's  upper platform is at the highest accessible  to   पब्लिक   in  the European  संघ   और  the highest in Europe as long  as  the platform of the  ostankino  Tower  ,  at ,  remains  closed as  a  result of the fire of August 2000 .
the  tower  प्राप्त  its  250   millionth  visitor in  2010  .
the   मीनार  stands tall  ,  about the same  ऊँचाई  as an  81-storey  building  .
During its construction , the Eiffel Tower  surpassed  the Washington Monument to assume the  शीर्षक  of  the  tallest  man-made  structure  in   the  world , a title it  आयोजित  for 41  सालो  , until  the  Chrysler  भवन  in New  यॉर्क   नगर  was  निर्मित  in 1930 .
क्युकी   of  the addition , in 1957 , of the antenna atop  the   एफिल   मीनार  ,  it  is now  taller  than the  क्रिसलर  Building .
Not including broadcast antennas , it is  the   second-tallest  structure in France , after the Millau Viaduct .
The  मीनार   रै   तीन  levels for visitors .
टिकटें   can  be purchased to ascend , by  सीढ़ियाँ   or  lift ( elevator ) ,  to   the   पहला  and  दूसरी   स्तर   .
The walk from ground level to the  पहला  level  is  over 300 steps , as is  the  walk from the first to  the   दूसरी  level .
The third and highest level is  accessible  only by lift—stairs do exist  लकिन  are usually closed to  the  public .
the  first  और  second levels  have  restaurants  .
the  tower  रै  become the most prominent  प्रतीक   of  both Paris and  फ़्रांस   ,  often  in   the  establishing shot  of  films set  in  the city  .
Kenneth Wayne  ``  Ken '' Jennings III  (  born May 23 , 1974 )  is  an American game show contestant and author .
जेनिंग्स  is  विख्यात   लिये  holding  the  record for the  longest   जीतना  streak on  the   u.S.  syndicated game  दिखाएँ   jeopardy  !
and as being  the   all-time  leading money winner on  अमरीकी  game shows .
in  2004  ,   जेनिंग्स   जीती  74 Jeopardy !
games before  he  was  पराजित  by  चैलेंजर   नैंसी   zerg  on his 75th appearance  .
His  कुल  earnings  on   jeopardy   !
are $ 3,172,700 ,  consisting   of  $  2,520,700  over  उसके  74  विन्स  , a $ 2,000 second-place  पुरस्कार   in  his  75th   रूप  , a $  500,000  second-place prize in the  jeopardy  !
Ultimate Tournament  of   champions  , as  खूब  as  हाफ   of   a  $  300,000  prize  in   the  IBM  चुनौती   .
During his first run of Jeopardy !
appearances  ,  Jennings earned the record  लिये   the  highest American game show winnings .
His total was surpassed  by   ब्रैड  Rutter  ,  who defeated  जेनिंग्स  in  the  finals of the Jeopardy  !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions  (  first  aired   on   may  25 , 2005 )  ,  adding $ 2,000,000  to  Rutter 's existing Jeopardy !
winnings .
Jennings regained the record after appearing on  अनेक  other game shows , culminating in an  रूप  on  हैं  You Smarter Than a 5th Grader  ?
( first aired on  अक्तूबर  10  ,  2008 )  ,  though Rutter retains the Jeopardy  !
record .
After his  कामयाबी   on  Jeopardy  !  ,  जेनिंग्स   लिखा   परिचय  his experience and explored American trivia history  और  culture  in  his book Brainiac  :  Adventures in the  जिज्ञासु   ,  Competitive , Compulsive  संसार   of  Trivia Buffs ,  प्रकाशित  in  2006  .
The Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल  League or CFL ( ' [ LCF  ]  in French  )   is  a professional  खेल  league located in Canada .
The CFL  is  the highest level  of  competition in Canadian football , a form  of   gridiron   फ़ुटबॉल  closely related  to   अमरीकी   फ़ुटबॉल  .
इसके   आठ  current  टीमों  ,  जिससे   हैं   स्तिथ   in  eight  पृथक   शहरों  , are divided  into  two divisions of four teams each  —  the East  प्रभाग  and  the   वेस्ट   प्रभाग   .
the  league 's 19-week regular season runs from late June to early  नवम्बर   ;  each  टोली  plays 18  खेल  with one bye week  .
Following the  नियमित   ऋतु  , the  तीन  teams with  the   बेहतरीन   रिकॉर्ड  in their division ( except  if   the  fourth place team  in  one division has  a  better record than the  तीसरा  place team  in  the other division , when  the  team with  the  better record  makes  the playoffs and `` crosses  over  '' to the other division  's  playoff ) compete in the league  's  three-week  डिवीजनल  playoffs , which  culminate   in  the late-November Grey Cup  चैंपियनशिप  ,  the  country 's  largest  annual sports  और   टेलीविज़न  event  .
The  cfl  was officially founded  on  January  19  , 1958 , making it the second oldest gridiron  फ़ुटबॉल  league  in   उत्तर   अमेरिका  still in operation , although all its  टीमों   long  predate the modern formation of  the   लीग  .
It  is   the   उच्चतम   स्तर  of play in Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल  ,  the  most  लोकप्रिय   फ़ुटबॉल  league in Canada , and the second-most popular major sports league in Canada , after  the  National Hockey League .
हालांकि   बर्फ  hockey is  कनाडा  's  सबसे  popular sport , the CFL  रै  increased the popularity  of  Canadian football in Quebec  और  Western Canada .
Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल  is also played at amateur levels ( i.e .  युवावस्था  , high  स्कूल   ,  CJFL  ,  QJFL , CIS and senior  लीग  such  as   the  Alberta Football League  )  .
The 2010s will be a significant decade for  the  CFL in terms of  विकास  , as teams  have  renovated , expanded stadiums , or plan to build entirely new  स्टेडियम   .
the  Montreal Alouettes accomplished  इस  first  ,   adding  5,000 seats to  पर्सिवल   molson  Memorial Stadium in time for the 2010  cfl  season .
The  एडमॉन्टन   एस्किमोस   और  Calgary Stampeders also  संवर  their  संबंधित  stadiums and facilities for  the  2010 season  .
In 2011  ,  the BC Lions played  अंतर्गत  a  नई  , retractable  छत  in  bc   प्लेस  after spending one and  a  half seasons at  साम्राज्य  Field .
Then the  विन्निपेग   ब्लू  Bombers will play  in  an entirely  नई  stadium at  the  University of Manitoba , scheduled  to  open in time  लिये  the 2013 season .
the  Hamilton Tiger-Cats  ,  Saskatchewan Roughriders and the new Ottawa franchise are also  looking  at new or  extensively-renovated  stadiums in the following years  .
वहीँ  are also hopes of expanding the league to  अटलांटिक   कनाडा   (   ideally   basing  a team  in  either  the   अधिक  populated Halifax  ,  or  the  more  centralized  Moncton ) , as  2010   और  2011 had regular season games hosted  in   moncton  .
According  to   खेल  historian Douglas Brei , the Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल  League holds the distinction of being the only  पेशेवर  sports  लीग  in North America , major or  नाबालिग   लीग  ,  in   जिससे  each existing franchise has won at least  एक  league title  जबकि   in   उनके  current location .
Each  एंटीबॉडी  binds to a specific antigen ; an interaction similar  to  a  ताला  and key .
An  एंटीबॉडी   (   ab  )  ,  also known as an immunoglobulin  (  Ig  )   ,  is a large Y-shaped protein produced  by  B-cells that  is   प्रयुक्त  by the immune system to identify  और   neutralize   विदेशी   वस्तुएँ  such as bacteria and  वाइरस   .
the   एंटीबॉडी  recognizes a unique  भाग  of  the  foreign target , called an  प्रतिजन  .
प्रत्येक  tip  of  the  ``  Y '' of an  एंटीबॉडी   contains  a paratope ( a structure analogous  to   a  lock  )  that  is   विशिष्ट   लिये  one  particular   epitope  ( similarly  analogous  to a key  )  on an antigen , allowing these  दो   structures  to  bind  together with  परिशुद्धता  .
Using this binding  यांत्रिकी   ,   an   एंटीबॉडी  can tag  a  microbe or an  संक्रमित  cell  लिये  attack by other  भाग   of   the  immune system , or can  neutralize  its target directly ( for example , by blocking a  भाग  of a  microbe   कि   is  essential for its  आक्रमण  and survival ) .
The production of antibodies is  the  main function  of  the  humoral  immune  प्रणाली  .
Antibodies are secreted by a type of white blood cell called a plasma cell  .
Antibodies  can  occur  in  two physical  फ़ॉर्म  ,  a  soluble  रूप   कि  is secreted from the cell  ,  and  a  membrane  -bound  form  कि  is  संलग्न  to  the  surface of a B  कोशिका  and  is   referred  to as the B cell  receptor  ( BCR  )  .
The  bcr   is  only  मिला  on the surface of  b   कोशिकाएं   और  facilitates the activation of  ये  cells and  उनके  subsequent differentiation  into  either antibody factories called  प्लाज्मा  cells , or  मेमोरी  B  कोशिकाएं  that  होगा  survive  in   the  body  और  remember  कि  same  प्रतिजन  so the B cells can respond  तेज़  upon future exposure  .
In most cases , interaction of the B cell  साथ   a   t   हेल्पर   कोशिका   is  necessary to produce full  सक्रियण   of   the  B cell and ,  इसलिए  , antibody  पीढी  following  प्रतिजन  binding .
Soluble antibodies  हैं  released  into  the blood and tissue  fluids   ,  as well as  अनेक   secretions  to  continue  to survey for invading microorganisms .
antibodies  are glycoproteins belonging to the  immunoglobulin   superfamily  ;  the   शर्तें  antibody and immunoglobulin  हैं  often used interchangeably .
Antibodies  हैं  typically made  of  basic  संरचनात्मक  units—each with two large  भारी   जंजीरों   और  two small light  जंजीरों   .
There  हैं  several different  प्रकार  of  एंटीबॉडी  heavy  जंजीरों  , and several  अलग  kinds of antibodies ,  जिससे  are grouped into different  isotypes  based  on   जिससे  heavy  कड़ी   वे  possess .
Five  अलग   एंटीबॉडी  isotypes are  ज्ञात   in  mammals , which perform different  भूमिकाएँ   ,  and help  सीधा  the appropriate immune  जवाब  for  प्रत्येक  different  प्रकार  of  विदेशी   ऑब्जेक्ट  they encounter  .
Though the  सामान्य  structure of all  antibodies  is very similar , a small region  at  the tip of the protein is  अत्यधिक  variable , allowing millions of  antibodies  with slightly  अलग   टिप  structures , or  प्रतिजन  binding sites ,  to  exist .
This region is  ज्ञात  as  the   hypervariable   प्रदेश  .
Each  of   ये  variants can  bind  to a  अलग  antigen .
This enormous diversity of antibodies allows  the   प्रतिरक्षा  system to  recognize   an   बराबर   चौड़ी  variety of antigens  .
the  large and diverse  जनसांख्यिकी  of antibodies is  उत्पन्न  by random  combinations  of  a  set of gene segments that encode different antigen  बाइंडिंग  sites  (  or paratopes ) , followed by random mutations in this area of the antibody gene , which create  further   विविधता   .
Antibody genes also re-organize in  a  process called class switching that changes the base of  the  heavy chain to another , creating  a  different isotype of the  एंटीबॉडी  that retains the antigen specific  परिवर्तनीय  region .
This allows a single antibody to be  प्रयुक्त   by   अनेक  different parts of the immune system .
The symbol used by the Zodiac Killer to sign his  पत्राचार
The Zodiac Killer was a  सीरियल   कातिल  who  संचालित   in   उत्तरी  California  in   the   लेट  1960s and early 1970s .
The killer  's  identity  remains   अनजान  .
the   zodiac  murdered victims in  benicia  , Vallejo , Lake  berryessa   ,   और  San Francisco  between  December 1968 and  अक्तूबर   1969  .
Four men  और  three women between the ages  of  16  और  29 were targeted .
the  killer  originated  the  नाम  ``  zodiac  '' in a series  of   taunting  letters sent  to   the  local Bay Area  दबायें  .
These letters  शामिल  four cryptograms ( or ciphers ) .
Of  the  four  cryptograms  sent , only one has been definitively solved  .
Suspects have  महरूम  named  by   विधि  enforcement and amateur investigators ,  लकिन   no  conclusive evidence has surfaced .
In April  2004  ,  the  San Francisco Police  विभाग   चिह्नित   the  case `` inactive  ''  , yet re-opened the case  at  some point prior to March 2007 .
The case also remains open  in  the  नगर  of  vallejo  , as well  as  in  नापा   काउंटी  and Solano  काउंटी  .
The California Department of  इंसाफ  has  कायम  an  खोलें   मामला  file  on  the  zodiac   हत्याएं   चूंकि   1969  .
Jennings  is  a small city in and the parish seat  of  Jefferson Davis  मोहल्ला  , Louisiana ,  संयुक्त   राज्य  , near Lake Charles .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was  10,383  at the  2010   जनसांख्यिकी   ,  a small  मनाही  from the  2000  tabulation .
The city  is  68  प्रतिशत  white .
Jennings  is  the principal city of the Jennings  micropolitan  Statistical Area ,  जिससे  includes  सब  of Jefferson  डेविस  Parish .
It is  भी   भाग   of  the larger  झील  Charles-Jennings Combined  सांख्यिकीय  Area  .
Nanotechnology (  sometimes  shortened to  ``  nanotech  ''   )  is the  हेरफेर  of matter  on  an atomic and molecular  स्केल  .
The earliest , widespread  वर्णन  of nanotechnology  referred  to  the  particular technological goal  of  precisely manipulating  अणु  and molecules for fabrication of macroscale  उत्पाद  , also now referred  to   as  molecular  nanotechnology  .
A more generalized description of nanotechnology  थी  subsequently  स्थापित  by the National Nanotechnology Initiative , which defines nanotechnology  as  the manipulation of matter with at least  एक  dimension sized from 1 to  100   nanometers  .
This  परिभाषा  reflects the  फैक्ट  that  क्वांटम   mechanical  effects are  महत्वपूर्ण  at this quantum-realm scale  ,   और  so the definition shifted from a particular technological goal to a research category inclusive  of  all types of  शोध  and technologies  कि  deal  साथ  the special properties  of  matter that occur  नीचे   the  given  आकार  threshold  .
it   is   इसलिए  common  to   देखिए  the  बहुवचन   रूप   ``  nanotechnologies ''  as  well as `` nanoscale technologies  ''  to refer to the broad  दायरा  of research and  अनुप्रयोग  whose common  trait  is size .
Because of  the  variety of potential  अनुप्रयोग  ( including industrial and military  )   ,  governments  have  invested  अरबों   of   डॉलर   in  nanotechnology research .
Through its National  nanotechnology   पहल  , the  यूएसए  has  invested  3.7 billion dollars  .
the   यूरोपीय  Union has invested 1.2  अरब  and  जापानी   750  million dollars .
nanotechnology  as defined by  आकार   is   naturally  very broad , including fields of  विज्ञान  as  विविध  as surface science , organic  रसायन  , molecular biology , semiconductor physics , microfabrication ,  इत्यादि  .
The  संबद्ध  research  और   अनुप्रयोग  are equally diverse , ranging from extensions of conventional device physics to  completely  new approaches based upon molecular self-assembly  ,  from developing new  सामग्री  with  आयाम  on the nanoscale  to  direct control of matter  on  the  परमाणु   स्केल  .
वैज्ञानिकों   फिलहाल  debate  the  future implications of  nanotechnology   .
nanotechnology   may   be  able to create many new materials and  डिवाइस   साथ  a vast  दायरा  of  अनुप्रयोग  , such as in medicine , electronics  ,  biomaterials and energy production  .
On the  अन्य   हाथ  ,  nanotechnology   उठाता  many of  the   वही  issues as any new technology ,  सहित  concerns about the toxicity and  पर्यावरणीय  impact of nanomaterials , and their potential  प्रभाव  on  वैश्विक  economics ,  as   खूब   as   अटकलें  about  विभिन्न  doomsday scenarios .
ये   चिंताएं   have  led  to  a debate among advocacy  समूह  and  सरकारें   on  whether  खास  regulation of  nanotechnology   is  warranted .
Map of the  पूर्वी  Bloc
The term  पूर्वी   bloc  or Communist Bloc refers to  the   पूर्व  communist states of Central and Eastern Europe ,  generally  the Soviet Union and  the  countries  of  the Warsaw  अनुबंध   .
The terms Communist Bloc and Soviet Bloc  यहूद   भी  used to denote groupings  of  states aligned  साथ  the  सोवियत  Union  ,   हालांकि   ये  terms  might  include  राज्य  outside Central and Eastern  यूरोपीय  .
The New  जर्सी   gubernatorial  election  of   2009  took place on November  3  , 2009  .
लोकतांत्रिक  Governor Jon Corzine was running for  a  second term and was being  challenged  by  रिपब्लिकन  Chris Christie , Independent Christopher Daggett and nine others ,  in   जोड   to  several write-in candidates .
क्रिस्टी  won  the  election ,  साथ   परिचय   48.5   प्रतिशत  of  the  vote ,  to  44.9 percent for  corzine   और  5.8 percent  लिये   daggett  .
क्रिस्टी  won the  largest  margin for a  पहला  term  रिपब्लिकन  since 1969 .
Christie assumed office on January  19  , 2010 .
इस  was the first election to  भरण  the newly  निर्मित  office  of  Lieutenant Governor  .
The candidates for governor and lieutenant governor  यहूद  joined together as  a   सिंगल  choice , so  कि  voters  किया  not  have  the  अवसर  to split  the  ticket  .
Kim  guadagno   ,  Christie  's  running mate  ,  became  नई  Jersey  's   पहला  lieutenant governor following  उसके  inauguration .
स्वास्थ्य   परवाह   in   the  United  राज्य  is provided by many distinct organizations .
Health care facilities are largely owned  और  operated by  निजी  sector businesses  .
Health  बीमे  for public sector  कर्मचारी   is  primarily  provided   by  the government  .
60-65  % of healthcare provision  और  spending comes from  कार्यक्रम  such  as  Medicare  ,  Medicaid  ,   tricare  , the Children 's Health Insurance Program , and  the   दिग्गजों   स्वास्थ्य   प्रशासन  .
सबसे  of  the  population  अंतर्गत   65   is  insured by their  or  a family member 's employer  ,   कुछ  buy  स्वास्थ्य   बीमे  on their  अपना  , and the  शेष   हैं   uninsured   .
of   17   high-income  countries studied by  the  National  संस्थान  of  स्वास्थ्य  in 2013 , the United States was at  or  near the bottom in  शिशु  mortality , heart and lung disease , sexually transmitted infections ,  adolescent  pregnancies ,  चोटों   ,  homicides ,  और  rates of disability .
Together , such issues place  the  U.S. at the  नीचे   of  the list for life expectancy .
on   औसत   ,  a U.S. male can  be  expected  to  live almost four fewer  सालो  than those  in   the  top-ranked country .
According  to  the  संसार  Health Organization  (  WHO ) , the United  राज्य  spent more on  स्वास्थ्य   परवाह   प्रति  capita ( $  7,146   )   ,  and  अधिक  on health care as percentage  of  its GDP ( 15.2  %  ) , than any other nation  in  2008 .
the  Commonwealth Fund ranked the United States  पिछला   in  the  विशेषता  of health  परवाह   among  similar countries , and notes U.S.  परवाह   लागत  the  सबसे  .
The  u.S.   जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau reported that  49.9  million residents  ,  16.3 %  of  the population  ,  were  uninsured  in 2010  (   up  from 49.0 million residents ,  16.1  %  of  the population ,  in   2009  ) .
A 2004  संस्थान  of  आयुर्विज्ञान  ( IOM ) report said :  ``  The United States is  among   the  few industrialized nations  in  the world that  करता  not guarantee  अभिगम   to  health  परवाह  for its population . ''
A 2004  oecd  report said : `` With  the  exception of Mexico  ,  Turkey  ,  and the United  राज्य   ,  all OECD countries had achieved  सार्वभौमिक  or  near-universal  ( at  तनिक   98.4   %   insured  )  कवरेज  of their populations by  1990   .  ''
A 2010 report observed that  कमी  of  स्वास्थ्य  insurance  कल्याणकारी   roughly   48,000   अनावश्यक   मौतों  every year  in  the United States .
In 2007 , 62.1  %   of   filers  for bankruptcies claimed high  चिकित्सा  expenses  .
A 2013 study found  कि   परिचय  25 %  of   सब   वरिष्ठ   नागरिकों  declare bankruptcy due to medical  खर्च   ,  and  43  % are forced to mortgage  or  sell their  प्राथमिक  residence .
On March 23  ,   2010  , the Patient  सुरक्षा  and Affordable Care  अधिनियम  (  ppaca  ) became law , providing for major changes in  स्वास्थ्य   बीमे   .
in  physiology  ,  body  जल  is the  जल   सामग्री   of  the  इंसान   देह  .
A significant fraction  of  the human body is water .
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook  of  Medical Physiology states that `` the  कुल   राशि  of  जल  in  a   man  of average weight ( 70 kilograms  )  is approximately 40  लीटर  , averaging  57   प्रतिशत   of  his total body weight .
In a newborn infant ,  इस  may be  as  high as  75   प्रतिशत   of  the body weight  ,  but it progressively decreases from birth  to  old age , most  of  the  घटी   occurring  during  the  first 10  सालो  of life  .
भी  , obesity  decreases  the percentage  of   जल   in   the   देह  , sometimes to as low as 45 percent  ''   .
ये  figures are statistical  averages  ,  so   हैं   illustrative  , and like all biostatistics ,  होगा   vary  with things like type of  जनसांख्यिकी  , age  और  number  of  people sampled  ,   और  methodology  .
So there  is  not ,  और   can   नहीं  be ,  a   फिगर  that is exactly  the   वही  for all people  ,  for this or  कोई  other physiological  माप   .
For  उदाहरण  , Jackson 's  (   1985   )  Anatomy & Physiology for  नर्स  gives  a  figure  of   60   %  for  the  proportion of  body-weight  attributable  to  water ,  जिससे  approximates Guyton 's 57  %  .
in  diseased states where body  जल  is affected , the compartment  or   compartments   कि  have changed can  दे  clues to the nature of the problem .
देह  water is  regulated  by hormones , including  anti-diuretic  hormone ( ADH  )  , aldosterone and atrial natriuretic peptide  .
Per Netter 's Atlas  of  Human Physiology ,  देह  water  is  broken down into the following compartments:
Intracellular  द्रव  ( 2/3  of  body water  )   .
Per Guyton , in a  देह   containing  40  लीटर  of fluid , about  25  litres is intracellular , which  amounts  to  62.5  % ( 5/8 )  ,   बंद   पर्याप्त  to the  2/3  rule of thumb  .
जैक्सन   's  texts states  70  %  of  body  द्रव   is   intracellular  .
Extracellular fluid ( 1/3  of  body water  )  .
प्रति   guyton  's illustration , for  a   40  litre body , about  15   लीटर  is extracellular , which amounts to 37.5  %  Again ,  इस  is close to the  1/3  rule of thumb cited here .
Plasma  (  1/5 of extracellular fluid  )  .
Per Guyton 's  उदाहरण  , of the 15 litres of  extracellular  fluid  ,   प्लाज्मा  volume averages 3 litres .
This amounts  to   20  % ,  the  same as per Netter 's Atlas .
अंतरालीय  fluid (  4/5  of extracellular  द्रव   )
Transcellular  द्रव  ( a.k.a  .   ``  third  स्पेस  , ''  सामान्यतः  ignored in calculations )
Contained inside organs ,  ऐसे   as  the gastrointestinal  ,   प्रमस्तिष्कमेरु  , peritoneal , and ocular fluids  .
Self-esteem  is  a  पद  used  in  psychology to reflect  a  person  's   overall   emotional  evaluation  of  his or her own  लायक  .
It is a judgement of oneself as well as an attitude toward  the  self .
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs  (   लिये  example  ,   ``   i  am competent ,  ''  `` I  am  worthy '' ) and emotions  ऐसे   as  triumph  ,   despair  ,  अभिमान  and shame .
Smith and  mackie  define it by  saying  ``  the  self-concept  is  what we  सोचो   परिचय   the  self ; self-esteem  ,  is the  धनात्मक   or  negative evaluations  of  the  स्वः  , as  in  how we feel about  it  . ''
Self-esteem is  भी   ज्ञात  as the evaluative  आयाम  of the  स्वः  that includes feelings of  worthiness  , prides and discouragement  .
One 's self-esteem is also  closely  associated with self-consciousness .
Self-esteem  is  a  disposition  that a person  रै   जिससे   represents   उनके  judgements of their  अपना  worthiness .
in  the mid-1960s  ,  Morris Rosenberg  और   social-learning  theorists  पारिभाषित  self-esteem as a personal  लायक   or   worthiness  .
Nathaniel Branden in 1969 defined self-esteem as ``  the   अनुभव  of being  competent  to cope  साथ   the  basic challenges of life and being worthy of  सुख  . ''
According  to  Branden  ,   self-esteem  is the  योग  of self-confidence (  a  feeling of personal capacity  )  and self-respect  (   a  feeling of personal worth ) .
It  exists  as a consequence of the  अव्यक्त   निर्णय   कि   प्रत्येक  person  रै  of their ability to face life 's  चुनौतियां  , to  समझे  and  solve  problems , and  उनके  right to achieve  सुख   ,  and be given respect  .
As  a  social psychological construct , self-esteem  is  attractive because  शोधकर्ताओं  have conceptualized  it  as an influential  predictor  of relevant outcomes , such as academic achievement  (  Marsh 1990 ) or exercise  बर्ताव   (  Hagger et al .  1998  )  .
in  addition , self-esteem has also been  treated  as  an   महत्वपूर्ण   निष्कर्ष  due to its close relation with psychological well-being (  दलदल  1989 ) .
self-esteem   can   लागू   specifically   to  a particular dimension ( for example , ``  i  believe I  am  a  शुभ   लेखक  and I feel happy  परिचय  that  ''  )  or   a  global  extent  ( for example , `` I believe  i  am a  ख़राब   व्यक्ति  , and  महसूस  bad about myself in general ''  )  .
Psychologists usually regard self-esteem as  an  enduring personality characteristic  (   ``   trait  '' self-esteem ) , though  सामान्य  , short-term variations ( `` state ''  self-esteem  ) also  मौजूद  .
समानार्थी  or near-synonyms of self-esteem  शामिल  : self-worth ,  self-regard  ,  self-respect  , and self-integrity .
A  masonic  Lodge ,  प्रायः  termed a Private Lodge  or  Constituent Lodge ,  is   the  basic  organisational  unit of Freemasonry .
Every new Lodge  जरूर  be warranted  or   चार्टर्ड  by  a   ग्रैंड  Lodge  ,  but is subject  to   इसके  direction only in enforcing the  प्रकाशित  Constitution of the  क्षेत्राधिकार   .
by  exception  the  three surviving lodges  कि   formed  the world 's first known  ग्रैंड  Lodge  in  London ( today called the  संयुक्त   ग्रैंड   आवास  of England ) have the  अद्वितीय  privilege to  operate   as  time  immemorial  i.e . without  ऐसे  warrant ; only one other  आवास  operates  बगैर   a  warrant - this is the Grand Stewards ' Lodge in London ,  हालांकि  it is not also  हकदार   to  the `` time immemorial ''  शीर्षक  .
a  Freemason  is   generally  entitled  to  visit any Lodge , in any  क्षेत्राधिकार   (  i.e . under any Grand  आवास  ) in amity with his own .
In  कुछ  jurisdictions this privilege  is  restricted to Master Masons ( that is , Freemasons who have attained the  अनुक्रम   's  third degree  )   .
He  is  first usually required to check , and certify , the regularity  of   the   संबंध  of the  आवास  - and  be  able to satisfy that Lodge of his regularity of membership  .
Freemasons gather together as a Lodge to work the three  मौलिक  Degrees of  डाला  Apprentice ,  fellowcraft  and Master Mason .
Pilkington  समूह  Limited is a multinational  कांच  manufacturing  कम्पनी   headquartered  in St Helens , United Kingdom and  a  wholly owned subsidiary  of  the Japan-based NSG Group .
Prior to  इसके  acquisition by NSG in 2006 it was an independent  कम्पनी   सूचीबद्ध  on the  लंदन  Stock  एक्सचेंज  and for  a  time was a constituent  of   the   ftse  100  अनुक्रमणिका  .
A quotation is the repetition of one expression as part of  another  one  ,   विशेषकर  when the quoted expression is  well-known  or explicitly attributed by citation to its original  सोर्स  , and it  is  indicated  by  (  punctuated  with )  quotation  marks  .
A quotation  can  also refer to the  दोहराया  use of  इकाई  of any  अन्य  form of expression , especially parts of artistic works : elements of a painting , scenes from  a  movie or  भाग   इससे  a  musical  composition .
साल  1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII  )   थी  a common year starting  on   सोमवार  (  कड़ी   होगा   प्रदर्शक  the  पूरा  calendar  )  of the  gregorian  calendar and a common year starting on  शनिवार   of  the 12-day  धीमा  Julian  पंचांग   .
ब्लैक  pepper ( Piper nigrum  )  is a flowering vine  in  the family  piperaceae  , cultivated  लिये  its fruit ,  जिससे  is usually dried and used  as  a spice  और  seasoning  .
The  फल  , known  as  a peppercorn when dried , is  लगभग  in diameter  ,  dark red  जब   fully  mature ,  और   ,  like all drupes , contains  a   सिंगल   बीज   .
peppercorns  , and the ground pepper derived  इससे   उन्हें  , may be  वर्णित  simply  as  pepper  ,  or more  precisely   as   ब्लैक  pepper  (  cooked and dried unripe fruit ) , green pepper (  सूखी  unripe fruit )  और  white pepper  (  dried ripe seeds  )  .
Black pepper is  देशी   to  south India  ,  and is  extensively  cultivated there  और  elsewhere in  तीव्र  regions  .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest  निर्माता  and exporter of  pepper  , producing  34  %  of  the  संसार  's Piper nigrum crop  as   of  2008 .
सूखी  ground pepper  रै  been  प्रयुक्त  since  प्राचीनता  for both its  फ्लेवर  and as a medicine .
Black pepper  is  the world  's  most  traded  spice .
It  is  one of the  सबसे  common spices  added  to European cuisine and its  वंशजों   .
the   spiciness  of black  pepper  is  due  to the chemical piperine  ,   नहीं  to be confused  साथ  the  capsaicin  that gives  मांसल  peppers theirs  .
It is  in  the modern world ,  प्रायः   युग्म  with salt  .
Fire hydrant  in  Charlottesville  ,   वर्जिनिया  ,  यूएसए
a  fire hydrant ( also  ज्ञात   colloquially  as a  आग   प्लग  in the United  राज्य  or  as  a johnny pump  in  New York City ) ,  is  an active  आग  protection measure , and a  सोर्स  of water  provided  in most  शहरी   ,  suburban and  ग्रामीण  areas  साथ   नगरपालिका   जल   सेवा   to  enable firefighters to tap into the municipal water supply to  assist  in extinguishing  a   आग  .
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify for an  बीमे   छूट  since firefighters  चाहिए  be able  to   अधिक   rapidly  extinguish a fire on the insured property .
The concept  of  fire  plugs   तिथियाँ   to   at   तनिक  the 17th century .
This  थी  a time when firefighters responding to  a   कॉल   होता  dig down  to   the  wooden water mains  और  hastily bore a  छेद  to secure  जल  to fight fires .
The water  होता  fill the hole creating a temporary well , and  be  transported from the well to the fire by bucket brigades  or   ,   बाद  ,  by  hand-pumped fire engines  .
The  छेद   यहूद   तब  plugged with stoppers ,  सामान्यतः  redwood , which  over   समय  came to be  ज्ञात  as fire plugs .
the  location  of  the  प्लग  would often  be  recorded  or  marked so that  it  could be reused  in  future fires .
This is the  सोर्स  of  the   colloquial  term fire  प्लग  still used  लिये  fire hydrants today .
After  the  Great Fire  of   लंदन   in  1666 , the city installed  जल   मेन्स   साथ  holes drilled at  intervals   ,  equipped  साथ  risers , allowing an access  पाइंट  to  the  wooden fire plugs from  गली  level .
the  invention  of   a   post-  or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally  credited  to Frederick  graff  Sr. ,  मुख्य  Engineer of the  फिलाडेल्फिया  Water Works around  the   साल  1801  .
it  had a combination hose/faucet  आउटलेट  and was  of  ``  गीला  barrel  ''  design with  the   वाल्व   in  the  शीर्ष  .
It  is  said  कि  Graff held the  पहला  patent for a fire hydrant  ,  but  इस   can   नहीं   be   सत्यापित   क्युकी  the patent office in Washington  d.C.  caught on  आग   in  1836  destroying   अनेक   पेटेंट  records  इससे   कि   काल   in  the process .
The  अध्यक्ष  of the Republic of  दक्षिण  Africa is the head  of  state and head of government under South Africa  's  Constitution  .
From 1961 to 1994  ,  the head of state was called the State  अध्यक्ष  .
The President  is  elected  by  members of the National Assembly  ,   the  lower house of Parliament , and  is  usually the leader  of  the largest party  ,   जिससे   रै   महरूम  the African National  कॉंग्रेस  since  the  first non-racial elections  यहूद  held on  27  April 1994 .
The role was originally founded to be distinct from the now defunct role of prime minister  ,  but  the  two roles were merged  in   the  1983 constitution which specified a  four-year  term of office .
The 1993  और  later constitutions limits the president 's  समय  in office to two five-year terms .
the  first President to be elected under the new constitution  थी   नेल्सन  Mandela , and  the  incumbent president  is   याक़ूब  Zuma  .
Under the interim Constitution ( valid from  1994   to  1996 ) ,  वहीँ  was a Government  of   नेशनल  Unity ,  in  which an MP from  the  largest  विपक्ष  party  थी   हकदार  to a position as Deputy  अध्यक्ष  .
साथ  with Thabo  mbeki  , the last  राज्य   अध्यक्ष  , F.W  .  De Klerk  भी   परोसा  as Deputy President  ,  in his capacity  as  the  नेता  of  the   नेशनल  Party  जिससे  was the second-largest party in the  नई  Parliament .
लकिन  De Klerk later resigned and went into  विपक्ष  with his  पार्टी  .
A voluntary coalition  सरकारी  continues to exist under the new  संविधान  (  अपनाया  in  1996  ) ,  हालांकि   वहीँ  have been no appointments  of  opposition politicians  to  the post  of  deputy  अध्यक्ष  .
Special  शिक्षा  or  खास   needs  education is  the   शिक्षा  of students with special  needs  in a way that addresses  the  students ' individual differences and needs .
ideally  ,  इस  process involves  the  individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of  शिक्षण   प्रक्रियाओं  , adapted equipment and  सामग्री  ,  accessible  settings , and other interventions designed to help learners with  खास  needs achieve a higher level of personal self-sufficiency and success  in  school  और  community than would  be   उपलब्धियाँ   if   the   छात्र  were only given access  to  a typical classroom education .
आम  special needs include challenges  साथ  learning ,  संचार  challenges  ,   emotional  and behavioral  विकार   ,  physical disabilities , and developmental disorders  .
Students  साथ  these  kinds  of special  needs   हैं  likely to benefit from additional  शैक्षणिक  services such  as   अलग  approaches to teaching , use of technology  ,  a  specifically  adapted teaching area , or resource room  .
बौद्धिक  giftedness is a  अंतर  in learning and can  भी   लाभ   इससे  specialized teaching  तकनीकों  or different  शैक्षणिक  programs , but the term `` special  शिक्षा   ''   is   generally   प्रयुक्त  to specifically  indicate   निर्देश  of students whose special  needs  reduce their ability to learn  independently   or  in an  ordinary  classroom ,  और  gifted education is  संभाला   separately  .
in  most developed  देशों  , educators are modifying  शिक्षण  methods and environments  so  that the maximum number of students  हैं  served in general education  environments  .
Special education in developed  देशों  is  प्रायः  regarded less as  a  `` place  ''  and  अधिक  as  ``  a range  of   सेवाएं  , available in every school  .  ''
Integration  can   reduce  social  stigmas  and improve academic achievement for  अनेक   विद्यार्थी  .
the   विपरीत   of   खास   शिक्षा  is general  शिक्षा   .
General  शिक्षा  is  the   मानक   curriculum  presented with standard teaching methods and without additional supports .
जार्ज  Soros ( or ; ; ; born August  12  , 1930 , as  schwartz  György )  is  a Hungarian-American  कारोबार   महारथी  , investor , and philanthropist  .
he  is the chairman of  सोरोस   निधि  Management .
Soros supports progressive-liberal causes .
He is known  as  `` The Man Who Broke the Bank of  इंग्लैण्ड   ``   क्युकी  of his  in  investment profits  दौरान   the  1992 Black Wednesday  uk  currency  संकट  .
between  1979 and 2011  ,  Soros gave away  over  $ 8 billion to human  अधिकारों  , public health , and education causes .
He  निभाई  a  significant   भूमिका  in the  शांतिपूर्ण  transition  इससे   साम्यवादी  to capitalism in  हंगेरियाई  (  1984–89  ) and provided one  of  Europe 's largest higher education  endowments   to   सेंट्रल  European  विश्वविद्यालयों  in Budapest .
सोरोस  is also the chairman of  the  Open  समाज  Institute  .
an  actor portraying  सिकंदर   ग्राहम   घंटी   बोलना  into an early model telephone .
The  आविष्कार  of the telephone  is   the  culmination of  कार्य  done by  अनेक  individuals , the history of which  involves  a collection of claims and counterclaims .
The  विकास   of  the modern electrical telephone involved  an   सरणी  of lawsuits founded upon the patent claims of several individuals  और  numerous companies .
This article covers the early years from  1844  to 1898 , from conception  of  the  विचार  of an electric  voice-transmission  device , to  विफल  attempts to  उपयोग  `` make-and-break '' current  ,   to  successful experiments with electromagnetic telephones  by  Alexander  ग्राहम   घंटी   और   थामस  Watson  ,  and finally to commercially  कामयाब  telephones in  the  late  19th  century .
A Master of Fine Arts ( MFA ,  m.f.a  . ) is a graduate  उपाधि   typically   requiring   2–3  years of postgraduate study  परे  the bachelor 's degree ( BFA ) , although the term  of  study will vary by country or by university  .
the   mfa   is   a  creative  उपाधि  usually awarded  as  a terminal degree  in   विज़ुअल  arts , creative writing  ,   filmmaking  ,  नृत्य  , or theatre  और  other performing arts  .
Coursework is primarily  of  an  लागू  or performing  प्रकृति  with the  कार्यक्रम  often  culminating  in a major  कार्य   or   प्रदर्शन  .
Master of Fine Arts programs have generally  जरूरी   a   स्नातक  's degree prior to admission , but many  do  not require that the undergraduate  प्रमुख  be  the  same as  the   mfa  field of study  .
The most important  admissions  requirement has  प्रायः   महरूम  a sample portfolio or a performance audition .
The  निपुण   of   ठीक   कला   differs   इससे   the  Master of Arts  in  that  the  MFA ,  जबकि   an  academic program ,  centers   around   अभ्यास  in the particular field , whereas  कार्यक्रम  leading  to   the  MA  प्रायः  center on  the  scholarly , academic , or critical  पढ़ाई   of  the  फ़ील्ड  .
Additionally  ,  in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  an   mfa  is recognized  as  a terminal degree for practitioners  of  Visual Art  ,  Design ,  नृत्य   ,  Theatre ,  film/video  , New Media  ,  and  रचनात्मक   लिखने  - meaning that it is considered  to  be  the  highest  उपाधि  in  इसके  field ,  और   is  used as a minimum qualification  to  be able  to  apply to become a Full-Time Professor teaching  at  the University  स्तर   in  these disciplines .
There  हैं  exceptions to  इस  standard  in  the  कला   ,   notably  in  the   मामला  of music  प्रदर्शन  ,  जहाँ  the  mfa  is  नहीं  seen  as   a  terminal degree in the context of  the   अधिक  standardized DMA degree .
it   is  also  नाजुक  to  नोट  that in  the  interest of extending the  कनेक्शन   between   रचनात्मक  production and continued academic research , some  विश्वविद्यालयों   have  established practice-based  ph.d   कार्यक्रम  in fields  ऐसे  as creative writing , visual  कला  , new media  ,  design and  थिएटर   .
While this has had an effect in Creative  लिखने  , and to a  lesser   extent  in design and  नई  media , the influx  of   graduates  from practice-based  phd   कार्यक्रम   रै   नहीं  appreciably changed the  मानक  for the  mfa  as the terminal  उपाधि  in most Arts  disciplines  yet .
This is  an  ongoing contentious topic  ,  and  is   the  frequent  विषय   of  academic panels  ,   विशेषकर  at the annual  कॉलेज   आर्ट   संघ  conference  .
The CAA 2008  दिशानिर्देश  regarding the  mfa  strongly  re-affirms   कि  the  phd   is  not required as a terminal  उपाधि  in  the  visual arts .
The atomic bombings  of  the  शहरों  of  हिरोशिमा  and Nagasaki  in   जापानी  were conducted by the United States  दौरान  the final  चरण   of   संसार  War II in 1945 .
the  two  कार्यक्रम   हैं   the   तभी   उपयोग  of nuclear  हथियार  in war to date .
Following a firebombing campaign that  नष्ट  many  जापानी   शहरों   ,  the Allies  prepared  for  a  costly invasion of Japan  .
The war in Europe ended when  नाजी  Germany signed  इसके  instrument of surrender on 8  may   ,  but  the  Pacific War continued .
साथ  with the  संयुक्त  Kingdom and  the  Republic  of  China ,  the  United States  पुकारा   लिये   a   आत्मसमर्पण   of  Japan in the Potsdam Declaration on  26  July 1945 ,  threatening  Japan  साथ  `` prompt and utter destruction ''  .
The  जापानी  government ignored this ultimatum , and the United States  तैनात  two nuclear weapons developed by the Manhattan  प्रोजेक्ट  .
अमरीकी  airmen  dropped  Little  लड़के  on the city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945  ,  followed by  मोटे  Man  over  Nagasaki on  9  August .
Within the first two to  चार   महीने  of  the  bombings  ,  the  अधि   प्रभाव  killed 90,000–166,000  लोगों  in Hiroshima and  60,000–80,000  in Nagasaki ,  साथ  roughly half  of  the deaths in each city occurring  on  the first day .
the  Hiroshima prefecture  स्वास्थ्य   विभाग  estimated that , of the people who died on  the  day of the explosion ,  60  % died  इससे  flash or  ज्वाला   burns  ,  30  %  इससे  falling  मलबा  and 10 % from  अन्य  causes .
दौरान  the following months , large numbers died from the  प्रभाव  of burns  ,  radiation sickness ,  और  other injuries , compounded by illness .
In a  us  estimate of  the  total immediate and short term cause  of  death , 15–20 %  died   इससे  radiation sickness  ,   20–30  % from burns , and 50–60 %  इससे  other  चोटों   ,  compounded  by  illness  .
In both cities  ,   सबसे  of the dead were civilians , although Hiroshima  था  a sizeable garrison .
On 15 August  ,   छह  days after the bombing of Nagasaki , Japan  घोषित   इसके  surrender to the  allies   ,  signing the  यंत्र   of   आत्मसमर्पण  on 2 September  ,   officially  ending World War II .
The bombings led  ,  in  भाग   ,   to  post-war Japan 's adopting Three Non-Nuclear  सिद्धान्त  , forbidding the  स्वदेश  from nuclear armament  .
The role  of  the  bombings  in Japan  's  surrender and their ethical  औचित्य   हैं   स्टिल  debated .
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ( ; 2 October 1869 –  30   जनवरी  1948 ) ,  commonly  known as Mahatma Gandhi , was the preeminent leader of Indian  राष्ट्रवाद  in British-ruled  इण्डिया  .
Employing non-violent civil  disobedience  , Gandhi led India to independence and inspired movements for non-violence , civil rights and freedom across the world .
The son of  a  senior government official  ,   गांधी  was born and raised in  a  Hindu Bania community in  तटीय   गुजरात  , and  प्रशिक्षित   in  law in London .
Gandhi became famous  by   लड़  for the civil  अधिकारों  of  मुस्लिम  and Hindu Indians  in  South Africa , using new techniques of non-violent  सिविल  disobedience that  he  developed .
Returning  to  India in 1915  ,  he set about organising  peasants  to protest excessive land-taxes .
A lifelong  प्रतिद्वन्दी  of  ``  communalism `` (  i.e  . basing politics on religion )  he   पहुँचे   आउट  widely to all religious  समूह  .
he   became  a  नेता  of  मुसलमान  protesting the declining  औकात  of  the   खिलाफत  .
Assuming  नेतृत्व   of  the Indian National  कॉंग्रेस  in 1921 ,  गांधी  led nationwide campaigns  लिये   easing  poverty  ,   expanding  women  's  rights ,  भवन  religious and  जातीय  amity ,  समाप्ति  untouchability ,  increasing   आर्थिक   self-reliance  ,  और   ऊपर  all for  achieving  Swaraj —the  स्वतंत्रता   of  India  इससे  British  हुकूमत  .
Gandhi led Indians in protesting the national salt tax with the  dandi   नमक  March in 1930 , and  बाद  in  demanding  the British to immediately Quit India in 1942 , during World War II .
he  was  imprisoned   लिये  that and for  numerous  other political  offenses  over the  सालो  .
गांधी   sought  to practice non-violence and  सच्चाई  in all situations  ,  and advocated that  अन्य  do the same  .
He  देखी  the villages  as  the  कोर  of the  सच्चा  India  और  promoted self-sufficiency  ;  he  किया  not  support   the   industrialization  programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru .
he  lived modestly in a  self-sufficient  residential  जातियाँ  and wore  the  traditional Indian  धोती   और   चादर  , woven with  धागे  he had hand  spun  on a charkha .
His  मुख्य   राजनैतिक  enemy  in  Britain  थी  Winston Churchill , who ridiculed him  as  a `` half-naked fakir  .  ''
He was a  समर्पित   शाकाहारी   ,   और   undertook  long  fasts  as means  of  both self-purification and political mobilization  .
In his last year , unhappy at the partition of India , Gandhi worked to stop  the  carnage between  मुसलमान   ,  Hindus and  सिखों   कि   raged  in the  किनारा  area  between  India and  पाकिस्तानी  .
He was assassinated on  30  January  1948  by  nathuram  Godse who thought Gandhi was  too  sympathetic  to   इण्डिया  's Muslims .
30  जनवरी  is observed  as  Martyrs '  दिन   in  India .
The honorific Mahatma ( `` Great  आत्मा   ''   )  was applied to him by  1914  .
In  इण्डिया   he  was also called Bapu ( `` Father  ''   )  .
he   is   ज्ञात   in  India  as   the  Father of  the  Nation  ;  his birthday , 2  अक्तूबर  ,  is  commemorated  वहीँ   as   गांधी  Jayanti  ,   a   नेशनल  holiday , and world-wide as  the  International  दिन  of Non-Violence  .
Gandhi  's  philosophy  थी  not theoretical  लकिन  one of pragmatism , that is ,  practicing  his  सिद्धान्त  in  the   पल  .
पूछा  to give  a  message to the people , he would respond , `` My life is my message . ''
जोन   क्रॉफर्ड  (  कूच  23 ,  ca   .  1904  –   may  10 , 1977 ) , born  lucille  Fay LeSueur , was an American actress in film ,  टेलीविज़न   और  theatre .
Starting as a dancer  in   traveling   नाट्य  companies before  debuting  on  ब्रॉडवे  ,  क्रॉफर्ड  was signed to a  गति   चित्र  contract by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  in  1925  .
initially   कुंठित  by  the   आकार   और  quality of  उसके  parts  ,   क्रॉफर्ड  began a campaign of  self-publicity  and  became   nationally  known  as  a flapper  by  the end of the 1920s .
In the 1930s , Crawford  's  fame  rivaled  , and later outlasted , MGM  सहयोगियों  Norma Shearer and Greta  garbo   .
Crawford often  निभाई   मेहनती  young women who find romance and financial success .
These `` rags-to-riches  ''  stories were well received by  अवसाद  -era audiences  और   यहूद   लोकप्रिय   साथ  women .
क्रॉफर्ड  became one of Hollywood 's most prominent movie  सितारों   और   एक  of  the  highest paid women  in   the  United  राज्य   ,  but  उसके  films began  खोने  money and  by  the  समाप्त   of   the  1930s she was labeled `` box office  ज़हर   ''  .
After an  अनुपस्थिति   of  nearly  दो  years  इससे  the screen ,  क्रॉफर्ड  staged  a  comeback  by  starring in Mildred Pierce (  1945  ) , for  जिससे  she  जीती  the Academy Award for  बेहतरीन  Actress .
In 1955 , she  became  involved with  the  Pepsi-Cola Company through her marriage to company Chairman  अल्फ्रेड   स्टील   .
बाद   उसके   मौत   in  1959 , Crawford was  निर्वाचित  to  भरण  his vacancy on the board of directors but was  forcibly  retired  in  1973  .
She continued  एक्टिंग   in   फिल्मी   और  television regularly  through  the 1960s ,  जब  her performances  became   कम   ;  after the release of  the  British  हॉरर  film Trog  in  1970 ,  क्रॉफर्ड   रिटायर्ड  from  the   स्क्रीन   .
Following a  पब्लिक  appearance  in   1974  ,  बाद  which  unflattering  photographs were published ,  क्रॉफर्ड  withdrew from public life and became increasingly  reclusive  until her death in 1977 .
Crawford  शादीशुदा  four times .
उसके  first  तीन   विवाह  ended  in   तलाक  ;  the   पिछला  ended  साथ   the  death  of  husband Alfred Steele  .
She adopted five  children  ,  एक  of  जिसको   थी   reclaimed  by his  जनम  mother  .
क्रॉफर्ड   's  relationships with her two older children , Christina and Christopher  ,  were  acrimonious  .
क्रॉफर्ड  disinherited the two  और  ,  बाद  Crawford 's  मौत  ,  क्रिस्टीना  wrote a `` tell-all  ''  memoir  ,   mommie   dearest  , in which she alleged  a   lifelong   पैटर्न  of  शारीरिक  and emotional abuse  perpetrated  by Crawford .
She was  voted  the tenth greatest female  स्टार   in   the  history  of  American cinema by the American Film Institute  .
1910  बुइक  Tonneau without tonneau cover
1903  घाट   मॉडल  A rear-door Tonneau
1903 Lanchester rear-door Tonneau
Tonneau cover (  or  ) describes a  मुश्किल  or soft cover  प्रयुक्त   to  protect unoccupied  यात्री  seats in a  convertible   or  roadster  ,  or the cargo bed in  a  pickup truck .
Hard tonneau covers open  by  a  hinging  or  फोल्डिंग  mechanism  जबकि  soft covers open by rolling  up   .
The  tonneau  cover  is  used to  छिपाते   कार्गो   .
जब   the  cover is pulled out , it keeps items out of the sun  और  provides  अतिरिक्त  security by keeping personal  वस्तुएं  out of sight , as  खूब  as  shielding   the  driver from view .
ट्विटर  is  an   ऑनलाइन   सोशल  networking service and  microblogging  service that enables its  उपयोक्ता  to send and read  text-based   संदेश  of up to 140 characters , known as `` tweets '' .
Twitter  थी   निर्मित   in  March  2006  by Jack Dorsey and  by  July ,  the   सोशल  networking site  थी  launched .
The service rapidly  gained  worldwide popularity  ,  with over 500 million registered  उपयोक्ता   as  of  2012  , generating over 340 million  tweets   रोज़  and handling over 1.6 billion search queries per day .
चूंकि  its  लॉन्च   ,  Twitter has  become  one of the  टेन   सबसे  visited  वेबसाइटों  on the  अंतरजाल  , and  रै  been described as `` the  sms   of   the  Internet .  ''
Unregistered users can read tweets , while registered users  can   पोस्ट  tweets  through  the website interface  ,   sms  , or a range of apps  लिये   मोबाईल  devices .
Twitter Inc. is based in San Francisco ,  साथ  additional servers and offices  in  New York City , Boston , and  सैन   अंतोनियो  .
the  Hangover is a  2009  American  कॉमेडी  film  ,  co-produced  और  directed by  टॉड   phillips  and  लिखा  by Jon  लुकास  and Scott Moore .
it  is the first  फिल्मी   of  The  hangover   मताधिकार  .The film stars  ब्राडली   कूपर  , Ed Helms , Zach Galifianakis , Heather  ग्राहम   ,  Justin Bartha ,  और  Jeffrey Tambor .
The Hangover  tells  the story  of  Phil Wenneck  ,  Stu  दाम   और   एलन  Garner , who travel to  लास  Vegas for a  स्नातक   पार्टी  to  celebrate  their friend Doug Billings ' impending  विवाह  .
However , Phil , Stu and  एलन  have  no  memory of the previous night  's  events  और  must find Doug before the wedding  can   लो  place .
Lucas  और  Moore wrote  the  script  बाद  executive producer  क्रिस  Bender 's  dost  disappeared and had a large bill  बाद  being sent to a strip  क्लबों  .
After Lucas  और   मूर  sold it to  the  studio for  $   2  million , Philips  और  Jeremy  garelick  rewrote the script to  शामिल   a  tiger as  खूब   as  a  subplot  involving a baby and a  पुलिस   क्रूजर   ,  and also  सहित  boxer  माइक  Tyson .
Filming  took   प्लेस  in  नेवाडा  for 15 days , and during filming , the three main actors  (  Cooper  ,  Helms and Galifianakis ) formed a friendship .
the  Hangover was released on June  5  , 2009 , becoming a critical and commercial success .
It became  the   tenth-highest-grossing  film of 2009  ,  with a  विश्वव्यापी  gross  of  over US $ 467 million  .
Critics praised the film 's comedic approach but criticized it for  इसके   vulgarity  .
The film won  the  Golden  ग्लोब  Award for  बेहतरीन  Motion  चित्र  –  musical  or Comedy  ,  and received  अनेक  other accolades .
It is the  tenth-highest-grossing  film of  2009   in  the world  ,  as well  as  the second highest-grossing  r-rated  comedy  कभी  in  the  United States ,  surpassing   a  record previously held by Beverly  पहाड़ियाँ  Cop for  लगभग  25 years and later  होने  surpassed by Ted in 2012 .
आउट  of  सब  R-rated  films   ,  it is the third  highest-grossing  ever  in   the  U.S. ,  पीछे  only  the  Passion of  the   मसीह  and  the  Matrix Reloaded  .
a  sequel  ,  The Hangover Part  ii  ,  थी   released  in 2011 , and  a   तीसरा  and  फाइनल  film ,  the  Hangover Part III  ,  is  नियत  for  रिलीज  in  2013  .
कार्यक्रम   involving  meiosis , showing chromosomal crossover
meiosis   (  ) is a  खास  type  of  cell division  जरुरी   लिये  sexual reproduction in eukaryotes .
The cells produced  by  meiosis are  गैमीट  or spores .
In many organisms  ,  including  सब   पशु   और  land plants ( but not some other groups  ऐसे  as fungi  )  , gametes  हैं   पुकारा  sperm and egg cells  .
Whilst the process  of   meiosis  bears a number of similarities with the 'life-cycle ' cell division process of mitosis  ,  it differs in  दो   महत्वपूर्ण  respects:
the chromosomes  in  meiosis undergo a  recombination  which shuffles  the   जीनों  producing a different  जेनेटिक  combination in  प्रत्येक  gamete , compared with the co-existence  of  each  of  the  दो  separate  pairs  of each chromosome (  एक   प्राप्त  from  प्रत्येक   जनक   )  in  प्रत्येक  cell which  परिणाम   इससे  mitosis .
the outcome of  meiosis   is  potentially four  (  genetically  अद्वितीय  )  अगुणित   कोशिकाएं   ,   compared   साथ  the two (  genetically   एकसमान  )  द्विगुणित   कोशिकाएं   उत्पादित  from  समसूत्रण  .
Meiosis  begins  with  एक   द्विगुणित  cell containing two  नक़ल  of each chromosome —one from the organism  's  mother and one from its  पिता   .
The cell divides twice  ,   potentially  producing up to  चार  haploid cells containing one  नक़ल  of each chromosome .
( `` Potentially '' because in  कुछ  cases ,  ऐसे  as the formation of oocytes  in  mammals  ,  only  एक  of the possible  चार  haploid cells survives . )
in  animals the haploid cell  resulting   इससे  meiosis is a male  or  female  gamete   .
Each  of  the resulting chromosomes in the  gamete  cells is a unique mixture of maternal and paternal  डीएनए  , resulting in  औलाद  that are genetically distinct from either  जनक  .
This gives rise  to  genetic diversity in sexually reproducing  populations   .
This genetic diversity  can  provide  the   विभिन्नता  of physical and behavioural attributes ( phenotypes ) upon which natural selection can  अधिनियम  , but ,  as  described below in Section 6  ,  Origin  और  function  of  meiosis  ,  the  जेनेटिक  diversity  may  be largely  a  by-product  of  the homologous  recombination  that is primarily  employed  for its DNA  मरम्मत  function  दौरान  meiosis .
It is  भी  noteworthy that  दौरान  meiosis , specific  जीनों  are more highly  transcribed  ,  और  these are called  the   meiome  ,  the  term  प्रयुक्त   in  functional  जीनोमिक्स  for the  meiotic   transcriptome   .
Meiosis is  a  key  विशेषता  for all  sexually   reproducing  eukaryotes in which homologous chromosome pairing , synapse and recombination occur .
In  जोड  to strong meiotic  stage-specific   अभिव्यक्ति   of  mRNA ( the meiome  )  , however , there are also pervasive translational controls ( e.g . selective usage of  preformed  mRNA ) , regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein  अभिव्यक्ति   of   जीनों  during meiosis  .
Thus , both the meiome and translational  नियंत्रण  determine the broad restructuring  of  meiotic cells  needed   to  carry out meiosis  .
Prior to the meiosis  प्रक्रम  the  कोशिका  's chromosomes  हैं  duplicated by a round  of   डीएनए  replication , creating  इससे   the  maternal and paternal versions of  प्रत्येक   chromosome   (  homologs  )   दो  exact copies  ,  sister  chromatids  , attached at the centromere region .
In the beginning of  meiosis  the maternal and paternal homologs pair to each  अन्य  .
Then  वे   typically   एक्सचेंज  parts by homologous recombination leading to crossovers  of  DNA  between   the   मातृ   और  paternal versions of the chromosome .
Spindle  मछली  bind  to   the  centromeres of each pair of homologs  और  arrange  the   pairs  at the spindle  equator  .
Then  the  fibers pull the  recombined  homologs  to  opposite poles  of  the cell .
As the chromosomes  मूव   दूर  from  the   बीच   the  cell divides into two daughter cells , each  containing  a haploid  क्रमांक   of  chromosomes composed of two  chromatids   .
After the recombined maternal and  पैतृक  homologs  have   अलग  into  the  two  बेटी  cells , a  दूसरी   गोलाकार  of cell  प्रभाग  occurs .
There meiosis  ends   as  the two sister chromatids  बनाना   up   प्रत्येक  homolog are separated and  मूव  into one  of  the four  resulting  gamete  कोशिकाएं   .
Upon  fertilization  , for example when  a  sperm enters  an  egg cell , two  gamete  cells  उत्पादित  by  meiosis  fuse .
The gamete  इससे  the mother and the gamete from  the  father each contribute one  हाफ  of the set of  गुणसूत्रों  that make  up  the new  औलाद   's   genome  .
meiosis  uses many of the same mechanisms as mitosis , a  प्रकार   of  cell  प्रभाग  used by  eukaryotes  like  पौधे  and  पशु  to split  एक   कोशिका  into two  एकसमान  daughter  कोशिकाएं  .
In all plants and  in  many protists meiosis results in  the   गठन  of  बीजाणुओं  : haploid  कोशिकाएं  that can divide vegetatively  बगैर  undergoing fertilization .
Boxing ( pugilism  ,  prize  लड़  , the  मीठी   विज्ञान  or  in  Greek  pygmachia  ) is a martial art and combat sport in which two  लोगों   engage  in a contest of strength  ,  speed ,  reflexes   ,  endurance and will  by  throwing punches with gloved hands .
Amateur  मुक्केबाज़ी   is   an  Olympic and Commonwealth sport and is a common  fixture  in most of the  प्रमुख   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  games - it  भी  has its own World Championships .
Boxing is  पर्यवेक्षित  by  a   रेफरी   over  a series of one-  to  three-minute intervals called rounds  .
The result  is  decided  जब  an opponent is deemed  incapable  to continue by a referee  ,  is disqualified for breaking  a  rule  ,   resigns  by  फेंकना   in  a  तौलिया  , or  is  pronounced  the  winner or loser  आधारित  on the judges ' scorecards at the  समाप्त  of the contest .
The birth hour of  मुक्केबाज़ी  as a sport may be its acceptance  by  the  प्राचीन   यूनानियों   as  an Olympic game  as  early as  688   bc  .
Boxing evolved from 16th- and  18th-century  prizefights , largely  in  Great  ब्रिटेन   ,  to the forerunner  of  modern boxing in the  mid-19th   सदी  , again initially in Great  ब्रिटेन  and  बाद  in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   .
In  2004  , ESPN  क्रमित   मुक्केबाज़ी  as  the  most  मुश्किल  sport  in   the  world .
Agreement or concord happens when a word changes  रूप  depending  on   the  other words to which it relates .
It  is  an instance of inflection  ,   और  usually involves making the  मान  of  कुछ  grammatical  श्रेणी  ( such as gender or person  )  `` agree  ''   between   अलग  words  or  parts of  the  sentence .
लिये  example , in  मानक   अंग्रेज़ी  , one  may  say  i  am or he is , but not  ``  I is '' or  ``  he am  ''   .
This is  क्युकी  the grammar  of  the language requires that  the   क्रिया  and its subject  सहमत  in  व्यक्ति  .
the  pronouns  i   और   he   हैं   पहला  and third person respectively  ,  as are the  क्रिया   फ़ॉर्म   am   और  is .
the  verb form must be selected so  कि  it has the  वही   व्यक्ति  as the subject .
the  agreement based on overt  व्याकरणिक   श्रेणी  as above is formal agreement , in contrast  to  notional agreement ,  जिससे  is  आधारित  on meaning .
For instance ,  the  phrase  the  United States is  treated  as singular for purposes of agreement ,  भी   हालांकि  it  is  formally  बहुवचन  .
This  is  a  सूची  of  स्थान  below  औसत  sea  स्तर  that are on land  .
Places in  tunnels   ,  mines  ,  basements , dug holes ( also with open sky ) , under  जल   ,   अंतर्गत  ice , or existing temporarily as a result of ebbing of sea tide  इत्यादि  .  हैं  not included  .
सब   आंकड़े  are  in  meters below sea level:
Debbie Macomber (  born  October 22 , 1948 in  yakima  , Washington )  is  a best-selling American author of  over   150   रोमांस   novels  and  समकालीन  women  's   fiction   .
Over 140 million copies  of  her books are in print throughout  the   संसार  , and four  have  become made-for-TV-movies .
Macomber  थी  the inaugural winner of the fan-voted Quill Award  लिये  romance in 2005 and  रै  been awarded both a Romance Writers  of  America RITA  और  a lifetime achievement award  by  the  रोमांस   लेखक   of   अमेरिका  .
Catonsville  is  a  census-designated  place ( CDP ) in Baltimore County , Maryland  ,  United States .
The population was 41,567 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी   .
The community  झूठ  to the  वेस्ट  of  बाल्टीमोर   साथ  the city 's border .
Catonsville is  the  home  of  the University of Maryland  ,  Baltimore County (  umbc  ) , a  पब्लिक   शोध   विश्वविद्यालयों  with over  12,000   विद्यार्थी  .
A  वकील   ,  according to Black  's   विधि  Dictionary ,  is  `` a person learned in the law ; as an  attorney  ,  counsel   or  solicitor ;  a  person  जो   is  practicing law . ''
Law is the  प्रणाली  of rules of conduct  स्थापित  by the  sovereign  government of a  समाज  to  सही  wrongs  ,  maintain the stability of political and social authority  ,  and  उद्धार  justice .
working  as a  वकील   involves  the practical  अनुप्रयोग  of abstract legal theories and knowledge to solve specific individualized problems  ,  or to advance the  रूचि  of those who retain ( i.e.  ,  hire ) lawyers to  perform  legal services .
The role  of  the lawyer varies significantly across legal  jurisdictions   ,  and  so   it  can be treated here in only the most general terms  .
वेक्टर   विपणन   is  the domestic sales arm of Cutco  निगम   ,  an Olean ,  नई   यॉर्क  based cutlery manufacturer .
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( FMLA )  is   a  United States federal  विधि   requiring  covered employers  to  provide employees job-protected  और   unpaid  leave  लिये   योग्य  medical and  परिवार  reasons .
Qualified medical and family reasons include : personal or  परिवार  illness , family military  छोड़  , pregnancy  ,   अपनाना  ,  or  the foster care placement  of  a child  .
The FMLA is administered by  the   मजदूरी  and Hour Division of the United States Department  of  Labor  .
The bill was a major  भाग  of  अध्यक्ष   विधेयक  Clinton 's agenda in  उसके   पहला  term .
President Clinton signed the bill into  विधि   on   फ़रवरी   5   ,   1993   (  ; 29  u.s.c   .  sec  .   2601   ;  29 CFR 825  )  and  it  took effect on August  5   ,   1993  , six months later .
The FMLA was intended ``  to  balance the demands of the  कार्यस्थल  with the  needs  of families .  ''
the   अधिनियम  allows  योग्य   कर्मचारी   to  take  up   to  12 work weeks of  unpaid  leave during  कोई  12-month  काल  to attend to the  गंभीर  health  कंडीशन  of the employee , parent , spouse  or  child  ,  or  लिये  pregnancy  or   परवाह  of  a   नवजात  child  ,   or  for  अपनाना   or  foster care of  a  child .
in  order to be  योग्य  for FMLA leave , an employee must  have  been  at   the   कारोबार  at least 12 months ,  और   worked  at least 1,250  घंटों  over  the  past 12  महीने  , and  कार्य  at a  स्थान  where  the  company  employs  50  or   अधिक  employees within  75  miles  .
the  FMLA  कवर  both  public-  and private-sector employees  ,  but certain categories  of   कर्मचारी  are excluded , including  निर्वाचित  officials and  उनके  personal  स्टाफ   सदस्यों  .
The  वियतनाम  War ( ) was  a   ठंडा  War -era military conflict that occurred in Vietnam , Laos  ,   और   कंबोडिया  from 1 November 1955  to  the fall of  साइगॉन  on 30 April 1975 .
This war  followed   the  First Indochina  युद्ध  and was fought  between  North Vietnam  ,  supported  by  its  कम्युनिस्ट  allies , and the government  of  South  वियतनाम   ,   समर्थित  by the United States and  अन्य   anti-communist  countries .
The  viet  Cong ( also known  as  the National Liberation Front , or NLF ) ,  a   हलके  armed South Vietnamese  कम्युनिस्ट  common  सामने  directed by the  उत्तर  , largely fought a guerrilla war  विरूद्ध   anti-communist  forces in the region .
The Vietnam  लोगों  's  फौज  ( North Vietnamese Army  )  engaged  in  a  अधिक  conventional war , at times committing large units into battle .
U.S. and South Vietnamese  शक्तियां  relied  on  air  बड़प्पन  and  overwhelming  firepower to  conduct  search  और  destroy  परिचालन  , involving ground  शक्तियां  , artillery  ,   और   airstrikes  .
the  U.S.  सरकारी  viewed involvement in  the  war as a way to  prevent   a  communist takeover of South Vietnam as  भाग  of their wider  रणनीति  of containment .
The North Vietnamese government and Viet  cong  were fighting to reunify Vietnam under communist  नियम   .
They viewed the conflict as  a  colonial  युद्ध  , fought  initially  against France , backed  by   the  U.S. , and  बाद  against South Vietnam ,  जिससे  it regarded as a U.S.  कठपुतली  state .
American military advisors  arrived  in what was then French  इंडोचायना  beginning in 1950 .
U.S. involvement  escalated  in  the  early  1960s   ,  with troop levels tripling in 1961  और  tripling again  in  1962  .
U.S. combat units  यहूद   तैनात  beginning in 1965  .
Operations spanned  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  borders , with  लाओस  and Cambodia heavily bombed .
American involvement  in  the war peaked  in   1968  , at  the  time  of  the Tet Offensive .
After  इस   ,  U.S.  मैदान  forces were gradually  withdrawn  as part of a policy known as  vietnamization   .
Despite the Paris Peace Accords ,  हस्ताक्षरित  by all parties  in  January  1973  , fighting continued .
U.S. military  भागीदारी   ended  on 15 August 1973 as a  परिणाम  of the  case–church   amendment  passed by the U.S.  कॉंग्रेस  .
The capture of Saigon  by  the Vietnam People  's  Army in April 1975 marked  the  end of  the   युद्ध   ,  and North and  दक्षिण  Vietnam  यहूद  reunified the following year .
The war  exacted   a   विशाल   इंसान  cost  in  terms  of  fatalities ( see Vietnam War  हताहत  )  .
estimates  of the number of Vietnamese  सैनिको  and civilians killed vary  इससे   800,000   to  3.1 million .
कुछ  200,000–300,000 Cambodians  ,   20,000–200,000  Laotians ,  और  58,220 U.S. service members also died  in  the conflict .
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian  आइलैंड्स  of  अलास्का  photographed from the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Space  स्टेशन  ,  may   2006  .
Ash plumes reached a height of 19  km  during the climactic eruption  at  Mount Pinatubo , Philippines in 1991 .
a  volcano is an opening  ,  or rupture , in  a  planet  's  surface or crust , which allows hot  मैग्मा  , volcanic  राख  and gases to escape from the magma chamber  नीचे   the  surface  .
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic  प्लेटों  are  diverging   or  converging .
A mid-oceanic ridge ,  लिये   उदाहरण   the  Mid-Atlantic Ridge , has examples of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic plates pulling  अलावा   ;  the  प्रशांत  Ring of Fire  रै  examples of  ज्वालामुखी  caused by convergent  tectonic  plates  coming   साथ  .
By  कंट्रास्ट  ,  ज्वालामुखी   हैं  usually not created where  दो  tectonic plates  स्लाइड   पास्ट  one  another   .
Volcanoes can also form  जहाँ  there  is  stretching and thinning  of  the  धरती   's  crust in the interiors of plates  ,  e.g. , in the East African Rift ,  the  Wells  gray-clearwater   volcanic   फ़ील्ड  and the Rio  ग्रांडे  Rift in North America  .
This  प्रकार   of   volcanism   जलप्रपात  under the umbrella  of  `` Plate hypothesis  ''   volcanism   .
volcanism   दूर  from  थाली  boundaries  रै  also  महरूम  explained as mantle plumes  .
ये  so-called  ``  hotspots `` , for example Hawaii , are postulated to arise  इससे  upwelling diapirs  साथ  magma from the core–mantle boundary ,  3,000   km  deep in the Earth  .
Erupting volcanoes can pose many  जोखिमों  ,  नहीं  only in  the   तात्कालिक   vicinity  of the  फटना  .
Volcanic ash  can  be a threat to aircraft , in particular those  साथ  jet engines where ash particles  can  be melted by the high  ऑपरेटिंग   तापमान   .
Large eruptions can affect temperature as  राख  and  droplets  of sulfuric acid  अस्पष्ट   the  sun and cool the  धरती  's  निम्नतर  atmosphere or  क्षोभमण्डल  ; however , they  भी  absorb heat  radiated   up  from the Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically  ,  so-called volcanic  सर्दियों  have caused  अनर्थकारी  famines .
A deep pothole  on   नई  York City  's  Second Avenue
A pothole (  sometimes  called a  केतली  and known in parts of the Western  संयुक्त   राज्य  as a chuckhole )  is   a  type of disruption  in  the  सतह  of a roadway  जहाँ   a  portion  of  the road  सामग्री   रै  broken away , leaving a hole  .
Renal  कोशिका  carcinoma ( RCC , also  ज्ञात   as   hypernephroma   )  is a kidney cancer  कि   originates  in  the   अस्तर  of the proximal convoluted tubule , the very small  tubes   in  the  गुर्दा  that transport GF ( glomerular filtrate  )   इससे  the glomerulus to the descending limb of  the   nephron  .
RCC is  the   सबसे  common type  of  kidney cancer in adults , responsible for  लगभग  80  %  of cases .
It is also  ज्ञात  to be the  सबसे  lethal of  सब  the genitourinary  tumors  .
Initial  उपचार  is most commonly a  कट्टरपंथी   or  partial  nephrectomy  and remains  the  mainstay  of  curative treatment .
Where the tumor is  confined  to  the   renal  parenchyma , the  5-year  survival  रेट  is 60-70 %  ,   लकिन  this  is   lowered   considerably  where  metastases  have spread .
it  is relatively resistant  to   विकिरण  therapy and chemotherapy , although some cases respond to immunotherapy .
Targeted  कर्कट  therapies such as sunitinib , temsirolimus ,  bevacizumab   ,  interferon-alpha , and sorafenib  have  improved  the  outlook for  rcc  .
Estée Lauder Companies , Inc. is a  निर्माता  and marketer of prestige  skincare   ,  makeup ,  महक  and hair care products .
the  company has its headquarters  in   midtown  Manhattan  ,  New  यॉर्क  City .
The peritoneum  (   )  is  the  serous  झिल्ली  that forms the lining of  the  abdominal cavity or the coelom —it covers most of the intra-abdominal (  or  coelomic ) organs—in  amniotes  and some invertebrates ( annelids  ,  for  उदाहरण  ) .
It is composed of a layer of  mesothelium  supported by a thin  परत   of  connective  ऊतक  .
The  peritoneum   दोनो  supports the abdominal organs and serves as a conduit for  उनके  blood and lymph vessels  और  nerves  .
the  abdominal  गुहा   (  the space bounded by the vertebrae  ,  abdominal  मांसपेशियां   ,   diaphragm  and  श्रोणि  floor ) should not be confused with the intraperitoneal space ( located  भीतर  the  abdominal  cavity , but  लपेटा  in peritoneum ) .
The structures within  the  intraperitoneal  स्पेस  are called ``  intraperitoneal   ''  ( e.g . the  पेट  ) , the  structures   in  the  abdominal  cavity  कि  are  स्तिथ  behind the intraperitoneal space are called `` retroperitoneal ``  (  e.g .  the  kidneys ) ,  और  those structures below the intraperitoneal  स्पेस  are  पुकारा   ``  subperitoneal '' or ``  infraperitoneal  ''  (  e.g . the bladder ) .
Modern 2.5 '' SSD  प्रयुक्त  in  उपभोक्ता   लैपटॉप  and desktop computers  .
DDR SDRAM based SSD .
Max and .
PCI attached IO Accelerator SSD
PCI-E  ,  DRAM , and  नन्द  based  ssd  .
It uses an external power  सप्लाई  to make  the  DRAM non-volatile .
a  solid-state drive ( SSD )  (  also known  as  a solid-state disk  or  electronic disk , though it contains  no   वास्तविक   ``  disk  ''  of any  दयालु  ) is  a  data storage device  using  integrated circuit  सभाओं  as memory  to  store data persistently .
SSD  प्रौद्योगिकी  uses electronic interfaces compatible with traditional block input/output ( I/O  )  hard disk drives .
SSDs  have  no  चलती  mechanical  components  , which  फर्क  them from  परंपरागत   electromechanical  magnetic disks such  as   मुश्किल   डिस्क  drives ( HDDs ) or floppy disks ,  जिससे  contain  घूम  disks and movable read/write heads  .
Compared with electromechanical disks , SSDs  हैं  typically less  susceptible  to physical shock , much  quieter  , have  निम्नतर  access time , and  कम  latency .
However  ,   जबकि   the  price of SSDs  रै  continued  to   मनाही   in  2012  ,  SSDs are  स्टिल   परिचय  7 to  8   टाइम्स   अधिक   महंगी  per unit of storage  than  HDDs .
अनेक  SSDs use I/O interfaces  विकसित   लिये   मुश्किल   डिस्क  drives , thus  permitting  simple replacement in common  अनुप्रयोग  .
, most  ssds   उपयोग  NAND-based  फ्लैश  memory , which  retains  data  बगैर  power  .
For  अनुप्रयोग   requiring  fast  अभिगम   ,  but  नहीं  necessarily data  हठ  after power loss  ,  SSDs may be constructed from random-access  मेमोरी  (  राम  ) .
Such devices may  employ  separate power sources , such as batteries  ,   to   maintain  data after  शक्ति  loss .
संकर  drives or  ठोस  state hybrid  ड्राइव  (  sshd  ) combine  the  features of SSDs and  hdds   in  the same unit  ,  containing  a  large hard disk drive  और   an   ssd  cache  to   improve   प्रदर्शन  of frequently  पहुँचा   आंकड़ा   .
These devices  may   प्रस्ताव  near-SSD  प्रदर्शन   लिये   अनेक  applications .
Salmon  roe  ( left ) and  sturgeon  caviar (  सही  ) served with mother of pearl caviar spoons to avoid tainting  the  taste of  the  caviar .
ossetra   caviar   ,  salmon creme fraiche , potato shallot croquette ,  बेसिल  oil  ,  egg whites and yolks
Caviar ,  according  to the Food  और  Agriculture Organization , is a product made  इससे  salt-cured fish-eggs  of   the  Acipenseridae family .
the  roe can be `` fresh ''  (   non-pasteurized   )  or pasteurized , with pasteurization  reducing  its culinary  और  economic value .
traditionally   the  term caviar refers only to roe from  जंगली  sturgeon in the Caspian and Black Seas  (  Beluga , Ossetra and Sevruga caviars ) .
Depending on the country , caviar may also  be  used to describe the roe  of  other fish such  as  salmon , steelhead  ,  trout , lumpfish  ,   whitefish  ,  और   अन्य  species of  sturgeon   .
Caviar is considered  a  luxury delicacy and is eaten as a garnish  or   a  spread .
in  2012 ,  caviar  sold for  $  2,500 per pound ,  or  $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 per kilo .
The SEC  संजाल  is a television  अनुप्रयोग  network  featuring  live broadcasts of college football  और  basketball events from the Southeastern  सम्मेलन   .
It  is  owned and operated by  ईएसपीएन   प्लस  and  is  shown in more than 50 percent of households in the United States , mostly Southeastern  संयुक्त  States markets .
the  SEC Network  typically  airs in the  नून   पूर्वी  slot that was former  घर   to   the   raycom  Sports SEC  खेल  of  the  week .
खेल  are shown locally on broadcast stations , regional sports networks  ,  as well as on ESPN GamePlan , ESPN Full Court , and ESPN3.com .
the  SEC Network is  भी  available in Canada via Atlanta  's   wpch-tv  .
the  SEC Network  उपयोग  the same on-screen graphics  फिलहाल  used by ESPN  on  ABC  ,   a  version  of  ESPN 's graphics package .
SEC Network  's  football programming still  उपयोग   a  title  सुरक्षित   क्षेत्रफल  because most of  इसके  affiliates do not Letterbox their Standard Definition  फ़ीड्स  , while ESPN 's  टेलीविज़न  networks have allowed  उनके   ग्राफिक्स   to   लापरवाही  the title  सुरक्षित  , but letterbox  लिये   sd  viewers .
Starting with  the  SEC 2012 Basketball season ,  सेक  Network 's  ग्राफिक्स  have been converted to a 16:9 Widescreen-only format  .
This  is  also being used  लिये   the   2013  Basketball  ऋतु  ,  लकिन   था   स्टिल   adapted  the former 4:3-safe graphics format for the 2012  सेक  football  ऋतु  .
The 1990s  ,   सुनाया  and also  ज्ञात  as `` the Nineteen-Nineties '' or  abbreviated  as  ``  the Nineties  ''  or `` the  '90s   ''   ,   थी  a decade  कि  began on January 1 , 1990  ,  and ended on December 31 ,  1999  .
it  was the 10th and last decade  of  the 20th century and the 100th and last decade  of  the  2nd  millennium .
the  decade is  बेहतरीन  known  लिये  the end  of  the Cold War at the beginning  of   the   दशक   और  the expansion and  व्यावसायीकरण  of  the  Internet during  the  second half of the  दशक   .
In much of the West the 1990s is  remembered  as  a   काल  of unprecedented peace and prosperity , though  अनेक  parts  of  the  so-called   तीसरा  World faced various problems  सहित  genocide  ,  AIDS and new or continuing ethnic  तनाव   और  civil wars .
Culturally speaking the decade  थी  characterized by  the  rise of multiculturalism and alternative media .
Movements  ऐसे   as  grunge  ,  the rave scene and  हिप  hop spread  around  the  संसार  to  यंग  people  दौरान  the  दशक  , aided  by   then-new  technology  ऐसे  as cable  टेलीविज़न  and the  अंतरजाल   .
a  combination  of   कारकों  , including the mass  mobilization  of  पूंजी  markets through  neoliberalism  , the beginning  of   the  widespread proliferation of  नई   मीडिया  such as the  अंतरजाल  , and  the  dissolution  of  the  सोवियत  Union led to a realignment  और  reconsolidation  of  economic and political power across the  संसार  , and within  देशों  .
आय   असमानता  among countries in the world rose sharply between the 1980s and the mid-1990s  ,  before levelling off and then falling after  2000   .
New ethnic conflicts  उभरा  in  अफ़्रीकी  , the Balkans  और   the  Caucasus , the former two which  led  to the  rwandan   नरसंहार  and Bosnian  नरसंहार  ,  क्रमशः   .
The United States began its current military occupation of  the   मध्य  East  दौरान  the summer of  1990  with Desert Shield after  it  cut  बंद   a  large portion of the world 's petroleum supply .
Signs  of  any  रेज़ोल्यूशन  of tensions between  इसराईल  and the Arab  संसार  remained elusive , though  the  Irish Troubles came to a standstill  in  1998 with the  शुभ   शुक्रवार  Agreement after 30 years of violence .
the  gray wolf or  धूसर  wolf ( Canis  lupus   )  is a species  of  canid  देशी  to  the   wilderness   और   रिमोट  areas of  उत्तर  America , Eurasia  ,   और  North  अफ़्रीकी   .
It is the largest member of its  परिवार  , with males averaging , and females .
it  is  समान  in general appearance and proportions to a  जर्मनी  shepherd ,  or  sled  श्वान  , but has  a  larger head  ,   narrower   छाती  ,  longer  legs , straighter tail and  बडे  paws .
इसके  winter  फर  is long and bushy  ,  and predominantly a  mottled   धूसर  in colour , although nearly  pure  white , red , or brown to black also  occur  .
Within  the   genus   canis   ,  the gray wolf represents a  अधिक  specialised  और   प्रगतिशील   रूप   than   इसके   छोटी   cousins  ( the coyote and  सुनहरी   jackal  )  ,  as demonstrated by its morphological adaptations to hunting large  शिकार  , its more gregarious  प्रकृति  and its highly advanced  अर्थपूर्ण   बर्ताव   .
It is a  सोशल  animal  ,  travelling in nuclear families consisting of  a  mated pair , accompanied by  the  pair  's  adult offspring .
The gray  भेड़िया  is typically an  apex  predator throughout its  दायरा  , with  तभी   इंसानो  and tigers posing a serious threat to it  .
It feeds primarily on large ungulates ,  हालांकि  it  भी   eats  smaller animals , livestock , carrion  ,  and  कचरा  .
the  gray  भेड़िया  is one of  the  world 's most  खूब  researched  पशु  , with probably more  किताबे  written about it than any other  वन्यजीव  species .
It has  a   long   इतिहास  of association  साथ  humans ,  having   महरूम  despised and  hunted  in most agricultural communities due  to  its  हमले  on livestock  ,  while conversely  होने  respected by some Native American tribes .
it   is  the sole ancestor of  the   श्वान  , which was first domesticated in  the   मध्य  East .
Although the fear of  भेड़ियों  is prevalent in many human societies , the  बहुमत  of recorded  हमले  on  लोगों  have  महरूम   attributed  to animals suffering  इससे   rabies   .
Non-rabid  भेड़ियों   have   attacked  and killed  लोगों  , mainly children  ,   लकिन   इस  is  असामान्य   ,  as  भेड़ियों  are relatively few , live away from  लोगों  , and have been taught  to  fear  इंसानो  by hunters and  गड़रिये   .
शिकार   और  trapping has reduced the species '  दायरा  to ,  हालांकि   इसके  still relatively widespread range and  stable  population means that the species is  नहीं  threatened  at  a  वैश्विक  level  ,  and is  इसलिए  classified by the IUCN  as   तनिक  Concern .
the  Roman  साम्राज्य  ( ) was the post- Republican period  of  the ancient  रोमन   सभ्यता  ,  characterised  by an autocratic form of government and large territorial  holdings  around the Mediterranean in Europe ,  अफ़्रीकी   ,  and Asia .
The  500-year-old   रोमन  Republic , which preceded it  ,  had been destabilized  through  a series of civil wars .
Several events marked  the   परिवर्तन   इससे  Republic to Empire , including Julius Caesar 's appointment as  perpetual  dictator (  44  BC  )   ;  the Battle  of   actium   (   31  BC  )  ; and the  granting  of the honorific  augustus   to  Octavian  by   the  Roman Senate (  27   bc  ) .
The  पहला  two  सदियां  of  the  Empire were a period of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace ''  )  .
It reached its  महानतम  expanse  दौरान   the  reign of Trajan (  98–117  AD  )  .
In  the  3rd century  ,  the Empire  underwent  a  संकट   कि  threatened  इसके   अस्तित्व  ,  लकिन  was  reunified  and  stabilized  under  the  emperors Aurelian  और   diocletian   .
Christians  रोज़  to power  in  the  4th   सदी  ,  दौरान  which time a system  of  dual rule was developed in  the   लैटिन  West and Greek  ईस्ट   .
After the collapse  of  central government  in  the West in the 5th century ,  the   पूर्वी  half continued  as  what would later be  ज्ञात  as  the  Byzantine  साम्राज्य  .
Because  of  the  साम्राज्य  's vast extent and long endurance  ,   the   संस्थानों  and culture of Rome had  a  profound and lasting influence on the development  of   भाषा  ,  धर्म  , architecture  ,  philosophy ,  विधि   ,  and forms  of  government in the territory it  governed   ,  particularly Europe , and  by  means of  यूरोपीय  expansionism throughout  the  modern world .
Education in the United States  is  mainly provided by the public sector , with control and funding coming from three levels  :  local  ,  state  ,  and federal , in that  अनुक्रम  .
Child education  is   अनिवार्य  , and there  हैं  also a large number and wide  किस्में  of higher  शिक्षा  institutions throughout the country that one can choose  to   attend   ,  both  सरेआम  and privately  administered  .
पब्लिक  education  is   universally   उपलब्धियाँ   .
स्कूल  curricula ,  funding   ,  teaching ,  नियुक्ति  , and other policies are  नियत  through locally elected school boards  साथ  jurisdiction  over   स्कूल  districts with many  directives  from  राज्य   विधानमंडलों   .
School districts are  प्रायः  separate from other  लोकल  jurisdictions  ,   साथ  independent officials  और  budgets .
शैक्षणिक  standards  और  standardized testing  निर्णय  are usually  बना   by  state  सरकारें  .
The  आयु  for compulsory education vary  by  state  .
it  begins from  आयु  five  to   आठ  and  ends  from ages fourteen  to  eighteen .
Compulsory education requirements  can  generally  be   संतुष्ट  by  educating  children in public  स्कूलों  ,  state-certified  private schools , or an approved  घर   स्कूल  program .
In  सबसे   पब्लिक   और   निजी  schools , education is divided into  तीन  levels :  elementary   स्कूल   ,  middle  स्कूल  ( sometimes called junior high school )  ,   और  high  स्कूल   (   sometimes  referred to as secondary  शिक्षा  ) .
In  लगभग   सब   स्कूलों  at these levels  ,  children are divided  by  age  समूह  into grades  ,   ranging  from kindergarten  (  followed by  पहला  grade ) for  the   youngest  children  in   elementary  school , up to twelfth grade , the final year of high school .
The exact age range of students in these grade levels varies slightly  इससे  area to  क्षेत्रफल   .
Post-secondary education , better known as ``  कॉलेज   ``  in  the  United States , is  generally  governed separately from the  elementary   और   ऊँची  school  प्रणाली   ,   और  is  वर्णित  in  a  separate  खण्ड  below .
Government supported , free  पब्लिक  schools for  सब   प्रारंभ  being established after  the  revolution , and expanded in the 19th century  ,  as the results of  प्रयत्न  of men like Horace  मन   और  Booker T. Washington .
by  1870 , all  राज्य  had  फ़्री  elementary  स्कूलों  ,  albeit  only  in   शहरी  centers .
as   the  20th  सदी  drew  nearer  , states  प्रारंभ   गुजर   कानून   to  make schooling  अनिवार्य  ,  और  by 1910 , 72 percent  of  children  attended  school .
Private schools continued to spread  दौरान   इस  time , as  खूब  as colleges and—in the rural centers—  जमीन  grant colleges .
the  year of 1910 also  देखी  the first true  ऊँची   स्कूलों  .
During the rest of the 20th century , educational  प्रयत्न  centered on reducing the inequality of the schooling system  .
the   लैंडमार्क  Supreme  अदालत  case  भूरा  v. Board  of  Education made  the  desegregation of  elementary   और  high  स्कूलों  a  नेशनल   प्रधानता  , while  the  Pell  ग्रान्ट   कार्यक्रम  helped poor minorities gain  अभिगम  to  कॉलेज   .
Special education was made  into  federal law in 1975 .
The  elementary  and Secondary Education  अधिनियम  of  1965  made standardized testing a  आवश्यकता   ,   और   in  1983  ,  a  आयोग   थी   स्थापित  to evaluate  उनके  results  और  propose a course  of   कार्रवाई   .
The resulting No Child Left Behind Act  of  2001 was controversial  और  its  लक्ष्य   proved  to be unrealistic  .
A commission established  in  2006 evaluated  उच्चतर  education ,  लकिन  its recommendations have yet to  be  fully implemented .
Paul Bragg ( February  6  , 1895  –  December 7  ,  1976  )  , nutritionist  ,  was a pioneer  in   america’s   तंदुरुस्ती  movement .
Health spending  प्रति  capita ,  in   $  US PPP-adjusted  ,  with  the   us  and Canada compared amongst  अन्य  first world  राष्ट्र  .
Comparison of the health  परवाह  systems  in  Canada and the United  राज्य  are often made by  सरकारी   ,  public health  और  public policy  विश्लेषकों   .
The two countries had similar  स्वास्थ्य  care systems  पहले  Canada  reformed  its system in the  1960s  and  1970s   .
The United States spends  much  more money on health care  than   कनाडा   ,  on  दोनो   a  per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP .
In 2006 ,  per-capita  spending for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678  ;  in  the  U.S.  ,  US $ 6,714 .
the   u.S.  spent 15.3  %  of GDP on health  परवाह  in  कि   साल  ; Canada spent  10.0  %  .
In 2006 , 70 % of health  परवाह  spending  in   कनाडा  was  financed  by government ,  बनाम  46  %   in  the United States .
Total government spending per capita in the  u.S.  on health care was 23 % higher than  कनाडाई  government spending ,  और  U.S. government expenditure on health care  थी   बस  under  83   %   of  total  कनाडाई  spending  (   पब्लिक  and private )  हालांकि  these statistics do n't  लो  into account population differences .
Studies have come  to   अलग   conclusions  about the result of  इस  disparity in  बिता  .
A 2007  पुनर्विलोकन  of all studies  comparing   स्वास्थ्य   outcomes  in Canada  और   the  US  in  a  कनाडाई  peer-reviewed medical  जर्नल  found that `` health outcomes may  be  superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the  संयुक्त  States , but differences are not consistent . ''
जीवन  expectancy is longer in Canada  ,  and  इसके   शिशु   मृत्यु  rate  is  lower than that  of  the U.S.  ,  but there  is  debate about the underlying causes of these differences .
One commonly cited comparison  ,  the  2000   संसार  Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health  सेवा  performance  ''   ,  which  प्रयुक्त   a   ``  composite  माप   of  achievement in the level of  स्वास्थ्य  , the distribution of health  ,  the  स्तर  of  responsiveness  and  निष्पक्षता  of financial contribution '' , ranked  कनाडा  30th and the  us  37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated  the   us   ``  responsiveness '' , or  विशेषता   of   सेवा  for individuals receiving treatment , as 1st ,  compared  with  7th  for Canada .
While  the  average life expectancy for Canadians  थी  80.34 years compared with 78.6  सालो   लिये   निवासियों  of the  us   ,   बस  comparing the life  प्रत्याशा  of  दो  groups  साथ   अलग  racial makeup and different obesity rates is likely not  an   प्रभावी   रास्ता  of  determining  which healthcare system is  श्रेष्ठ   .
The WHO  's  study methods were criticized  by   कुछ   analyses  .
Although  वहीँ  is a  माप  of consensus that life-expectancy and  शिशु  mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare  nation-wide  health care ,  assuming  the  जनसांख्यिकी  makeup  is  similar , a  हाल  report by the Congressional Research  सेवा  carefully summarizes some  हाल  data and notes the ``  मुश्किल   शोध   मुद्दे   ''  facing international  comparisons   .
the  sound source has  अभी   टूटा  through the  ध्वनि  speed  अवरोध  , and is traveling at 1.4  टाइम्स  the  गति   of  sound , ( Mach  1.4  ) .
चूंकि  the source  is  moving faster  (  with a speed ) than the sound waves it creates ,  it  actually leads the  advancing   तरंगाग्र   .
The sound source will pass by a stationary observer ( with a speed ) before the observer actually hears the  ध्वनि  it creates .
As a result , an  निरीक्षक  in front of  the  source will detect
और  an observer  पीछे  the source .
A sonic boom produced by an  वायुयान   चलती  at M=2.92 ,  गणना  from  the  cone angle of 20 degrees .
An  निरीक्षक  hears the boom when the shock wave  ,  on the  किनारे   of  the cone , crosses  उसके  or her location .
mach   कोन  angle
A sonic boom is the  ध्वनि  associated with the shock  लहरें  created by an object traveling  through  the air faster than the speed  of  sound .
Sonic  booms  generate enormous amounts of sound energy , sounding much like an explosion .
the  crack  of  a supersonic  गोली  passing  ओवरहेड   is  an  उदाहरण  of a sonic boom in miniature  .
the   tonight  Show with Jay Leno is an American late-night talk  दिखाएँ   hosted  by  jay  Leno that initially aired  इससे   may  25 ,  1992  to  may  29 ,  2009  , and  resumed  production on March 1 ,  2010   .
the   चौथी  incarnation of the Tonight Show franchise made  इसके   डेब्यू  on May  25   ,  1992 , three days following Johnny Carson 's  रिटायरमेंट  as  मेजबान  of the  कार्यक्रम   .
The  कार्यक्रम   originates   इससे   एनबीसी  Studios in Burbank , California  ,   और   is  broadcast Monday through  शुक्रवार  at  11:35  PM in the Eastern and Pacific time zones  (  10:35  pm  Central / Mountain  समय  ) .
नापसंद  Carson or his predecessor Jack Paar , Leno only  एकबार  utilized a guest host , preferring to  मेजबान  the series by himself .
On  अप्रैल   26  , 1999 ,  the   दिखाएँ  began  प्रसारण  in 1080i HDTV  ,  becoming the  पहला  American nightly talk show  to   be  shot  in   ऊँची  definition  .
The show is shot in 16:9 aspect  अनुपात  .
The series ,  जिससे  followed the same basic format  as  that of his predecessors ( an opening monologue followed by  कॉमेडी   दिनचर्या  , interviews and  प्रदर्शन  ) ,  भागा  until May  29  ,  2009  ,  बाद  which  लीनो   थी  succeeded by Conan  o'brien  .
NBC  हस्ताक्षरित   लीनो  to a new deal for  a   nightly  talk  दिखाएँ  in the 10:00 pm ET  timeslot  .
The primetime series , titled The Jay Leno  दिखाएँ   ,  debuted on September 14 , 2009 ,  following  a similar  स्वरूप   to  the  लीनो   अवतार  of Tonight .
Neither O'Brien  's  version of the  कार्यक्रम  , which premiered June 1 ,  2009  , nor  the  Jay Leno  दिखाएँ  generated  the  ratings that NBC  था  expected .
the  network  decided  to move a condensed 30-minute version of Leno 's show to  o'brien  's  समय  slot , and O'Brien 's Tonight Show  a  half-hour later .
इस  decision met with opposition  इससे  O'Brien , whose stint on The Tonight Show ended January 22 ,  2010  , after which he began his own  बात  show on TBS .
The  tonight  Show with Jay Leno then began its second  और  current  अवतार  , the sixth of the  मताधिकार  , on March 1 , 2010  .
RFID chip  अगला  to a grain of rice .
This  चिप  contains  a  radio-frequency  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  field coil  कि   modulates  an  बाह्य  magnetic  फ़ील्ड  to transfer  a  coded  पहचान   क्रमांक  when queried by a reader device  .
इस  small type is  incorporated  in  उपभोक्ता  products  ,  and  implanted   in  pets ,  लिये  identification purposes .
Radio-frequency identification (  rfid  )  is   the  wireless non-contact use  of   radio-frequency  electromagnetic  फ़ील्ड  to transfer data ,  लिये  the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached  to   वस्तुएँ  .
The  टैग  contain  electronically  stored information .
कुछ   टैग   हैं  powered and read  at   छोटी   सीमाएँ  (  a   few  meters )  via  magnetic fields (  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   प्रेरण   )  .
Others use a  लोकल  power  सोर्स  such as a  बैटरी   ,   or   else  have no  बैटरी   लकिन  collect energy  इससे  the interrogating  em  field , and  तब  act as a passive transponder  to  emit  microwaves  or UHF  रेडियो  waves ( i.e. , electromagnetic radiation  at  high  बारंबारता   )  .
Battery powered  टैग  may  operate  at hundreds  of  meters .
Unlike a bar  कोड  , the  टैग  does not necessarily need to  be  within line of sight  of  the reader , and  may   be  embedded in the  tracked   ऑब्जेक्ट   .
rfid   टैग  are  प्रयुक्त  in  अनेक  industries .
An RFID tag attached  to  an automobile  दौरान   उत्पादन  can be  प्रयुक्त  to  track  its progress through the assembly  लकीर  .
Pharmaceuticals  can   be   tracked  through  warehouses  .
Livestock and pets may have tags injected ,  allowing  positive identification of the  एनिमल   .
Since RFID tags  can  be attached to clothing  ,  possessions , or even implanted within people ,  the  possibility  of   पढना   personally-linked  information without consent  रै   उठाया  privacy concerns .
Id ,  अहंकार  and super-ego are  the   तीन   भाग  of the psychic apparatus defined in Sigmund  फ्रायड  's structural model of the psyche ; they are  the  three theoretical constructs in terms of  जिनकी   कार्यकलाप   और   बातचीत   दिमागी  life  is  described .
According  to   इस  model  of  the psyche ,  the   id   is  the set  of  uncoordinated instinctual trends  ;   the  super-ego plays  the   नाजुक   और  moralizing role ; and the  अहंकार  is the  व्यवस्थित  ,  यथार्थवादी  part that  mediates   between  the desires of  the  id  और   the  super-ego  .
The  super-ego  can stop you  इससे  doing certain things  कि   अपना  id may  want   तुम  to do  .
Even though  the   मॉडल  is structural and makes  सन्दर्भ   to  an  apparatus  , the id  ,  ego  और   super-ego  are  कृत्यों  of the mind  बल्कि   than  parts  of   the  brain  और   do  not correspond one-to-one  साथ  actual  दैहिक  structures of  the  kind dealt  साथ   by   neuroscience   .
The concepts themselves arose  at  a  लेट  stage  in   the  development of Freud 's  विचार   :  the `` structural model '' (  जिससे   succeeded   उसके  `` economic model '' and  ``  topographical model '' ) was first  discussed  in his  1920   निबन्ध  `` Beyond the  ख़ुशी  Principle `` and was formalized  और  elaborated  upon   तीन  years later in  उसके  `` The Ego and the Id `` .
फ्रायड  's proposal  थी  influenced by  the   ambiguity   of  the  पद   ``  unconscious ``  और  its many  conflicting  uses .
Air Force ROTC  emblem
The Air Force  आरक्षित  Officer Training  corps   (   afrotc   )  is one of  the   तीन  primary commissioning  स्त्रोत   लिये  officers in the United States Air  फ़ोर्स   ,   the  other  दो  being the United States Air  फ़ोर्स  Academy ( USAFA )  और  Air  फ़ोर्स  Officer Training  स्कूल  ( OTS )  .
A  अधीनस्थ  command of the  एयर  University within  the   एयर  Education and Training  कमांड   (  AETC ) , AFROTC  is   लकीर  under the Jeanne  M.  Holm Center for Officer Accessions  और  Citizen  विकास  at Maxwell AFB , Alabama .
the  Holm Center  ,   formerly   ज्ञात  as the Air Force Officer Accession  और  Training Schools  (  AFOATS ) , retains direct responsibility  लिये  both AFROTC  और  OTS  .
afrotc  is the largest  और  oldest source of commissioned officers  लिये   the  U.S. Air Force  .
AFROTC 's  stated   मिशन   is   to  produce quality leaders  लिये   the   u.S.  Air Force .
AFROTC  इकाई   हैं  located on  144   कॉलेज   और  university  campuses  with 984 additional institutions of higher learning participating  in  cross-town agreements that  allow   उनके   विद्यार्थी  to attend  afrotc  classes  at   a  nearby  ``  host '' college or university .
According to AFOATS HQ , in 2006 ,  afrotc   commissioned   2,083  USAF Second Lieutenants , with AFROTC enrollment  ranging  from  23,605  in 1985 to 10,231  in  1993 , and around 13,000 enrolled  आज  .
AFROTC units  at  colleges and universities are called  ``   detachments  , '' and are typically  headed  by an active duty  यूएसएएफ   अधिकारी  in the rank of  कर्नल  or  लेफ्टिनेंट  colonel who functions as  दोनो  the Detachment Commander for USAF  उद्देश्य  and with the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace  अध्ययन  ( PAS  )   भीतर  the  संस्था  's academic  जातियाँ  .
Most colleges and  विश्वविद्यालयों  will  designate  the AFROTC  detachment   as  the Department of Aerospace  अध्ययन  .
The  pas  is assisted by three  to  four Assistant Professors of Aerospace Studies ( APAS  )  , all active duty  यूएसएएफ  officers in the  बाँधने   of  major or captain .
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and  एक  senior non-commissioned officer will typically  provide  military  प्रशासनिक  support and are often augmented  by  one  to   दो  civilian staff support  कर्मचारी  of  the   अकादमिक   संस्था  .
Within AFROTC  detachments  ,  the  students ( referred to as ``  cadets  '' ) are organized into wings  ,  groups , squadrons ,  और   फ़्लाइट  , mirroring the  यूएसएएफ   कार्यात्मक  wing structure .
The  afrotc  detachment 's cadet  wing   or   cadet  group  is  separated into  दो  divisions  :  the General Military  कोर्स  ( GMC  )   consisting  of the first  दो  years of training , and the Professional Officer  कोर्स   (   poc   )  consisting of the  पिछला  two years of training .
The  afrotc   कार्यक्रम  is  भी  divided into  दो  training functions : the  अकादमिक  Classroom Program (  aerospace  Studies  वर्ग  ) and  cadet  Activities  (   i.e.   ,  Leadership Laboratory , Physical Training  ,   और  other training  )  .
Paper density ( also known as basis weight and  grammage  ) is a term used in the pulp and paper industry and also  लिये  fabric  उद्योग   to  denote a measure of mass  of  the product per  ईकाई  of  क्षेत्रफल  for a type  of  fabric  ,  paper or paperboard  .
The term `` density '' is not used in its traditional  भाव   of   द्रव्यमान   प्रति  unit  आवाज़  .
``  Paper density ''  ,  rather ,  is  a  माप  of  the  area  घनत्व  .
Paper products that  let   छोटी  or no light pass  through  ( e.g  .   पोस्टर  board )  हैं  considered dense  or  heavy  .
पेपर  products that allow  कुछ  light  to  pass  through  ( e.g . tissue paper  )  are  माना   lightweight  .
in  the  गूदा  and paper industry , it is common to  नियत  a commercial paper machine to produce  पेपर  to a target paper density .
Paper density can also  be  used to  फर्क  paper from paperboard as  the  latter  प्रायः  has a grammage greater than  134  g/m2 .
Two ways  of   expressing  paper  घनत्व  are commonly used:
Expressed in grams  प्रति  square  मीटर   (  g/m2  )   ,   पेपर  density  is   भी   ज्ञात   as  grammage .
This  is   the  measure used in  सबसे   भाग  of the world .
Expressed in terms of the mass (  expressed  as weight )  प्रति   क्रमांक  of  चादरें   ,   it  is known  as   आधार  weight .
The  सम्मेलन   प्रयुक्त  in the  संयुक्त   राज्य   और  a  few   अन्य  countries using  us   पेपर   आकार  is pounds of a  ream  of  500   (  or  in  some  मामले  1000 )  चादरें  of a given ( raw , still  uncut   )   आधार   आकार  .
Japanese paper is expressed as the  वज़न  in  kg   of  1000  चादरें  .
Candace Nicole  पार्कर  (  born   अप्रैल  19  ,  1986 ) is an American basketball player for the WNBA 's Los Angeles Sparks  और  UMMC  ekaterinburg  of Russia  .
वो  is the  younger  sister of NBA player Anthony Parker .
She  attended  the University of  टेनेसी   और   थी   drafted  by the Sparks  in  2008 .
She  may  be best known  लिये  being  the  first woman  to   डंक   in   an  NCAA tournament game  और   the  first woman to dunk twice  in  a college  game—she  set both milestones as  a  redshirt freshman on March 19  ,  2006 .
She  भी  became only the  दूसरी  player to dunk  in  a WNBA game on June 22  ,  2008 .
a  versatile  खिलाड़ी  ,  वो  is mainly a forward , but  थी  listed on Tennessee 's  रोस्टर  as  a  forward ,  बीच   ,  and  गार्ड   .
वो  was a  प्रारंभ  on the Lady Vols basketball  टोली  , winners  of  the 2007 and  2008   ncaa  championships .
पार्कर  won  the  2009 Nickelodeon Kids ' Choice award as the  पसंदीदा   मादा  athlete in the sports category .
और   वो  was a  अतिथि   स्टार  on Figure  it   आउट  .
a  food  मार्गदर्शिका  pyramid is  a  pyramid shaped guide of  स्वस्थ   भोजन   विभाजित  into sections to  दिखाएँ  the  अनुशंसित  intake  लिये  each food group .
the   पहला  food  पिरामिड  was published in Sweden in  1974  .
The  सबसे  widely  ज्ञात  food pyramid was introduced by the United States Department of Agriculture  in  the year 1992 , was updated  in  2005 , and then replaced in 2011 .
Over  25  other countries and  संगठनों   have   भी  published food  पिरामिडों  .
Hans Christian Andersen  (  ;  प्रायः  referred to  in  Scandinavia as H. C. Andersen ; April  2   ,   1805august   4  ,  1875  )  थी  a Danish author and poet  .
Although a prolific writer of plays , travelogues , novels , and  कविताएं   ,   andersen  is best remembered for his fairy tales , a literary genre he so mastered  कि   he   खुद  has become as  mythical   as   the  tales  he   लिखा   .
andersen  's  लोकप्रियता  is  नहीं  limited to  children  ; his stories—called , or `` fantastic  किस्से   ''  —express themes that transcend age  और  nationality .
During his lifetime he was acclaimed  लिये   having   प्रसन्न   children  worldwide  और  was feted by  रॉयल्टी   .
Andersen  's  fairy tales , which have been translated  into  more than  125   भाषाएं  , have become  culturally   अंतःस्थापित  in the  वेस्ट   's  collective consciousness  ,  readily  accessible  to children  ,  but presenting lessons of virtue and  resilience  in  the  face of adversity for mature readers  as  well .
They have inspired motion pictures  ,   plays  ,  नाटिकाओं  , and  एनिमेटेड  films  .
Two figures locking eyes  in   caravaggio  's The Fortune Teller
Eye contact occurs when `` two people look  at  each other  's  eyes at the same time .  ''
in  human beings  ,   नजर   सम्पर्क  is a form  of  nonverbal communication and is thought  to  have a large influence on social  बर्ताव  .
coined   in   the  early to mid-1960s , the term has come in  the  West to often define the act  as   a  meaningful and important sign of confidence and social  संचार   .
The  कस्टम  and  significance  of eye contact vary  widely  between cultures ,  साथ  religious  और  social differences often altering  इसके  meaning greatly  .
the  study of eye contact is  sometimes  known  as  oculesics .
Bed bugs are parasitic insects  of  the cimicid family that  फीड   exclusively  on  रक्त  .
The  पद  most commonly refers to members  of  the  genus  Cimex of  जिससे   cimex  lectularius  ,  the  आम   bed  bug ,  is   the  best known as it prefers to feed  on  human blood although other Cimex  प्रजाति   हैं   specialized  to other  पशु   ,  e.g. , bat bugs , C. pipistrelli (  यूरोपीय   )  , C. pilosellus ( western US ) , and C. adjunctus ( entire  पूर्वी   us   )  .
The name of  the  ``  bed   कीड़ा   ''   is   निकला  from  the   पसन्दीदा  habitat of Cimex  lectularius  :  गरम   घरों  and especially nearby  or  inside of  beds   और   bedding  or other  नींद  areas .
bed  bugs are  मुख्यतः  active at  रात्रि  ,  लकिन  are  नहीं  exclusively nocturnal  .
They  प्रायः  feed  on   उनके   होस्ट  without being noticed .
A number  of  adverse  स्वास्थ्य  effects  may  result from bed  कीड़ा  bites ,  सहित  skin rashes , psychological effects  ,  and  allergic  symptoms .
निदान  involves both  ढूंढना  bed bugs and the occurrence of compatible symptoms .
Bed bugs  have  been known as human parasites for  हज़ारों   of   सालो  .
At a point in the early  1940s  , they were  ज़्यादातर  eradicated  in  the developed world  ,   लकिन   have  increased in prevalence since 1995 .
Because infestation of human habitats  रै  been on the increase , bed bug bites and related  शर्तें  have been on the  वृद्धि   as  well .
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is  the   पहला  of the Latter Prophets  in  the Hebrew Bible  ,  preceding Ezekiel ,  यिर्मयाह  and the Book of the Twelve .
(  the  order of the subsequent  किताबे  differs somewhat in the Christian Old Testament )  .
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom for a  गुनाहगार  Judah and for all  the   राष्ट्र   of  the  संसार   कि  oppose God , while  the  last 27  prophesy  the restoration of the nation of Israel and a new  सृष्टि  in God 's glorious future  किंगडम   ;  this section includes  the   गीतों   of  the Suffering Servant , four separate  passages  referring to the  स्वदेश  of  इसराईल  , interpreted  by   ईसाइयों  as prefiguring the coming of Jesus  मसीह   .
Tradition ascribes  authorship  of the book to Isaiah son  of  Amoz ,  लकिन   अभी  scholars widely agree that  the  book is the  कार्य  of  तीन  different authors  -   few  scholars deny this view ,  और   those  that  do  , do so for  theological   कारण  .
The  पहला  ,  termed  Proto-Isaiah ( chapters 1–39  )  , contains the words of  the  8th-century BCE prophet with  7th-century  BCE expansions ; the second ,  deutero-isaiah  ( chapters  40–55   )  ,  is  the work of a 6th-century BCE  लेखक  writing near the  समाप्त  of the  babylonian  captivity  ;  and the  तीसरा  ,  the  poetic  trito-isaiah   (  chapters 56–66 )  ,  was  रचित   in   जेरूसलम   shortly   बाद  the return  इससे  exile  ,  probably by  अनेक   लेखक   .
Oregon State University  (  OSU ) is a  coeducational   ,  public research  विश्वविद्यालयों   स्तिथ  in Corvallis ,  ऑरेगॉन   ,  United  राज्य  .
the   विश्वविद्यालयों  offers undergraduate  ,  graduate and doctoral degrees and a multitude of research opportunities .
वहीँ  are more than 200  अकादमिक  degree  कार्यक्रम  offered through the university .
OSU 's  कार्यक्रम  in microbiology , nuclear engineering , ecology ,  वानिकी   ,  public health , biochemistry , zoology ,  oceanography   ,  food science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top  टियर   कार्यक्रम   .
The OSU  's  liberal arts programs have also grown significantly  और   the  department is considered  a   ``   cornerstone  '' of  the   संस्था  .
More than 200,000 people have  attended  OSU since  इसके   founding  .
The  कार्नेगी  Foundation  classifies  Oregon State  विश्वविद्यालयों  as  भाग  of its top  टियर  of research institutions .
As  of  2008 ,  osu  is  एक  of  तभी  seventy-three land-grant universities .
The school is also recognized as a  sea-grant   ,   space-grant  and sun-grant  संस्था   ,  making  it  one  of   तभी  two US  संस्थानों  to retain  सब  four designations and  the  only  पब्लिक  university to do so  (  Cornell is the  तभी  other with  समान   designations  )  .
As one of  the  two flagship universities  of   the  Oregon  विश्वविद्यालयों  System ,  osu  receives more funding for research  ,  annually , than  सब  other  पब्लिक  higher  शिक्षा  institutions in Oregon combined  .
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females  इससे  the  paraurethral  ducts  through   और  around the female urethra during  or   पहले   an  orgasm .
it  is  भी   ज्ञात  colloquially as gushing or squirting  ,   हालांकि   ये  are  माना  to  be  different phenomena in some  शोध  publications .
the  exact source  और  nature of the fluid continue to be a  टॉपिक   of  debate  among  medical professionals ,  जिससे  is  भी  related to  संदेह  over  the   अस्तित्व  of  the  G-Spot  .
The  kanab  ambersnail  ,  scientific  नाम  Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or Oxyloma  kanabense  , is a critically  endangered  subspecies  or  species of small , air-breathing land snail  ,  a  स्थलीय  pulmonate  gastropod  mollusc in the  परिवार  Succineidae , the  एम्बर  snails .
The common name of the amber snails  is  based on  the  shell , which  is  translucent and when empty usually resembles amber in  रंग  .
This species is endemic  to   the  United States  ,   specifically  the state  of  Arizona  और  Utah  ,  where  it   थी  first  एकत्रित  in the  जल्दी   20th  century .
it  has  महरूम   सूचीबद्ध  as  endangered  on the United States Fish  और  Wildlife  सेवा  list  of  endangered species since  8  August 1991  .
इस  snail lives  in  wetlands , springs , and seeps , and only  दो   of  its natural habitats are known to exist : Three Lakes  ,  a meadow near Kanab ,  यूटा  , and  vasey  's  स्वर्ग  , a spring along  the   कोलोराडो   नदी  within Grand  canyon  National Park  .
In its natural habitat it is  बल्कि  polyphagous , feeding mainly on bacteria  ,  plants and fungi  ,  and reproduces  दौरान   the  summer .
अभी  considered a Critically Endangered species on  the  IUCN Red List of Threatened  प्रजाति  due  to   a   श्रेणी  of factors ( including influence ) , the Kanab ambersnail has been  reintroduced  to three springs above the historic high water level  साथ  the Colorado River .
the  Spanish  भाषा  is the second most used  भाषा  in  the  United States .
वहीँ  are more  स्पेनी  speakers  in  the  संयुक्त  States than there  हैं  speakers of Chinese , French ,  जर्मनी   ,  Italian ,  हवाई   ,  and the Native American  भाषाएं   संयुक्त  .
According to  the   2010   अमरीकी  Community Survey conducted by the  u.S.  Census Bureau , Spanish  is   the  primary language spoken at  घर   by  almost 37  लाख   लोगों   aged  five or  पुरानी   ,  a  फिगर  more  than  double that of  1990  .
There are 45  लाख  Hispanophones who speak Spanish as  a  first or second language , as  खूब  as six  लाख   स्पेनी  language  विद्यार्थी  , composing  the  largest  नेशनल   spanish-speaking  community  बाहर  of  मैक्सिको  and making  स्पेनी  the Romance  भाषा  and the  indo-european  language  साथ  largest number of native speakers in  the  world .
roughly   हाफ   of  all U.S.  स्पेनी   अध्यक्षों  also  बोलो  English  ``  very  खूब  ,  ''  based  on  the  self-assessment   जनसांख्यिकी  question respondents .
The language came  to  the country since the  16th  and 17th centuries  साथ  the arrival of Spanish colonists in  क्षेत्रों  that  होता   बाद  become the states of  फ्लोरिडा  , Texas ,  कोलोराडो   ,   नई   मैक्सिको  , Arizona , Nevada  ,   यूटा  ,  और  California and of the  स्पेनी  explorers - who explored  क्षेत्रों   of   42   राज्यs-  .
भी  west of Louisiana Territory was Spanish between  1763   -   1800  (  साल   of   the  French recovery  of  territory  )  ,  बाद  the French  और   भारतीय  War .
After  of   the  incorporation of  ये  states to the U.S. in  पहला  half of 19th century , the Spanish language  थी  later reinforced by the acquisition  of  Puerto Rico in 1898 and by later  लहरें  of the Hispanic emigration ,  मूलरूप  from Hispanic America , to the United States beginning  in  the second half of 19th  सदी   जबतक   आज  .
is   a   लैटिन  word that means `` thus '' or ,  in  writing , `` it  थी  thus  in   the   सोर्स  material  ''  .
Sic may also  refer  to:
Sic , Cluj , a commune in  रोमानिया
SIC  ,  the regional code  लिये  Sicily
Sic (  रव  artist  )   ,   styled   as   [  sic  ]  ,  स्टेज  name  of  Jennifer  मॉरिस   ,  a Canadian  रव  artist
Sic ( band )  is  a modern Hardcore/Thrash metal band from Torshavn , the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` (  sic  ) '' , a song by American  बैंड  Slipknot  on  the album Slipknot
SIC  ,   the  initial of Marco Simoncelli .
SIC  as  an  एक्रोनिम   may  stand for:
SiC , Silicon carbide , a semiconducting material , also  प्रयुक्त  to  मेक   धातुकर्म  tools
sic  (  cyclecar  )  (  Società Italiana  cyclecars  )
Standard Industrial Classification ,  a   20th-century  U.S.  प्रणाली   लिये   classifying  industries
International Standard Industrial  वर्गीकरण  a  un   प्रणाली  for economic activities
Shetland Islands  परिषद
the Swiss Interbank Clearing system
San Isidro Club ,  an  Argentine  रग्बी  union  क्लबों
Standing Interpretation Committee , a committee dedicated  to  the interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
schwarz   सूचना  criterion in the field  of  statistics
Second-in-command in  the  field of  विमानन
Sistema  interconectado  Central power grid in  चिली
Sociedade Independente de Comunicação (  sic   )  , a  टेलीविज़न  channel in Portugal
Sea  आइल  City  ,  New  जर्सी  ,  a  coastal  कस्बा   in  the  संयुक्त  States
Segmented Integer Counter mode  ,   a   विधि   of  operation in cryptography
Sepang  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Circuit , a high-end racetrack that hosts  the  Malaysian  गोलाकार  of  सूत्र   1
Shanghai International Circuit , a motor racing venue  in  Shanghai , China
सरलीकृत   निर्देशात्मक  computer , a  काल्पनिक   कंप्यूटर  used  in   प्रणालियों  programming
sic  ( Sons Idées Couleurs  )  , an early twentieth-century art  पत्रिका  produced by  फ्रेंच  author  पियरे  Albert-Birot
southeastern  Illinois  कॉलेज   ,  a two  साल  Junior College  in  Harrisburg , Illinois , United States
Specific inductive capacity , abbreviated to SIC ,  जिससे   is   अधिक  commonly  ज्ञात  as  the  relative permittivity  or  the dielectric constant
St Ignatius  '   कॉलेज  ,  riverview   ,  a  जेसुइट  school in  सिडनी  , Australia
alt=five   मुस्कुराना   यंग  girls  in   विभिन्न   मुद्राएँ  wearing white smocks  over  thigh-length dresses of similar color to their hair  .
the  Tokyo Mew Mew  manga  and  दुश्मनी  series features  a  cast of  वर्ण   designed  by Mia Ikumi .
the   श्रेणी  takes place in Tokyo , Japan , where five adolescent girls , called  mew  Mews , are infused  साथ  the DNA  of   endangered  species to  कॉम्बैट   एलियंस  attempting to  लो  over  the  Earth  .
the  manga series  is  followed  by  a  छोटी  sequel  श्रेणी   ,   टोकियो   mew  Mew a la Mode , which introduces a new  mew  Mew and  a  new  threat  .
the   mew  Mews are  led  by  the   प्रमुख  character , Ichigo Momomiya ,  जिनकी  first task is to gather  the   अन्य   चार   mew   mews  :  मिंट   aizawa  , Lettuce  midorikawa  , Pudding Fong ,  और   zakuro  Fujiwara  .
As  the  series progresses , Ichigo goes from  having  a  crush   on  Masaya  aoyama   to  becoming his girlfriend  जबकि  trying to  छुपा  her secret double  जीवन  from him .
the  series  antagonists   शामिल  three aliens ,  kish  , Pie ,  और  Tart  ,   और  their leader , Deep  ब्लू  .
Originally  इससे  Earth ,  the   एलियंस  were forced to leave  long   पहले  due to  घातक  environmental changes .
वे   have   लौटे   to  kill  the  humans  ,  who they  महसूस  are destroying their planet ,  और  reclaim  the  planet .
In a la  विधि  ,  मध्य  school  छात्र  Berry  shirayuki  is introduced  as   the  sixth Mew Mew and  ,  in the absence  of   ichigo   ,  the  अस्थाई   नेता  of  the   mew  Mews .
A la Mode  भी   introduces  new  नियत  of antagonists  ,  the  संत  Rose  crusaders  ,  a  group  of  human teenagers  साथ   विभिन्न  psychic abilities with a  ख्वाहिश  to  बनाएँ  their own utopia  .
led  by  ड्यूक   ,  they  मेक  several attempts to  मार  Berry , eventually turning the local populace  विरूद्ध  the Mew Mews .
Ikumi 's  आरंभिक  vision for Tokyo  mew  Mew was a story called  टोकियो  Black Cat Girl  कि  featured a  cat-girl   battling   एलियन  invaders .
After the story was transitioned to  a  more upbeat story of  पाँच   मादा   superheroes  , the character  डिजाइन  were redone to have a  हल्का  , more colorful feel  .
the  main series  वर्ण  were  praised  for  होने  a  पूर्ण  fit for the overall  स्टोरी  ,  as  well as for  उनके  cute appearances  .
The characters introduced in a  la   विधि  were also praised for their visual appearances ,  लकिन   criticized  as being repeats of the  असली   श्रेणी  .
the  character Duke was also criticized for  having   a  design reminiscent  of   the   श्वेत  supremacy group ,  the  Ku Klux Klan  .
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence  of   siltstones  (  नीचे  ) and limestones ( above )  ,  Virgin Formation , southwestern Utah , USA
Sedimentary rocks  हैं  types of rock  कि  are  formed   by  the deposition of material  at   the  Earth 's surface  और   भीतर   लाशें  of  जल  .
sedimentation  is  the   सामूहिक  name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles  (  detritus  )  to settle and accumulate or minerals  to   precipitate  from a solution .
अणु  that form a sedimentary rock  by  accumulating  हैं  called sediment .
पहले  being deposited  ,  sediment  थी  formed  by  weathering and erosion in a source area  ,  and  तब  transported  to  the  प्लेस  of  deposition   by  water  ,   हवा   ,  ice  ,  mass movement  or  glaciers which  हैं  called agents of denudation  .
The sedimentary rock cover of the  महाद्वीपों   of  the Earth 's crust is extensive  ,   लकिन   the   कुल   योगदान   of  sedimentary rocks is  अनुमानित  to be  तभी  8 % of the total  आवाज़  of the  क्रस्ट   .
Sedimentary rocks are  तभी  a thin veneer over  a  crust  consisting  mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks  .
Sedimentary  रॉक्स  are deposited in  परतों   as  strata ,  forming   a  structure called bedding .
The study of sedimentary rocks and  चट्टान  strata provides information  परिचय  the subsurface  कि  is useful for civil engineering , for  उदाहरण   in  the construction of roads , houses , tunnels , canals  or  other constructions .
Sedimentary  रॉक्स  are  भी  important sources of  प्राकृतिक  resources like  कोयले  , fossil fuels , drinking  जल   or  ores .
the  study of the  अनुक्रम  of sedimentary rock  strata   is  the main  सोर्स  for  वैज्ञानिक   ज्ञान  about the Earth 's history ,  सहित  palaeogeography  ,  paleoclimatology and the history of life  .
The scientific discipline that  अध्ययन  the properties and origin  of  sedimentary  रॉक्स  is  पुकारा  sedimentology .
Sedimentology is  दोनो   भाग   of  geology and physical geography and overlaps partly with  अन्य  disciplines  in  the Earth sciences , such as  pedology  , geomorphology  ,  geochemistry or structural geology .
350px
Humans  हैं  born with over 270 bones  ,  some of  जिससे   फ्यूज   साथ   into  a longitudinal axis ,  the  axial  कंकाल  , to which the  appendicular   कंकाल   is   संलग्न  .
संत   पैट्रिक  ( ; ; Modern ; ; c. 387  –   17  March c. 460 or c. 492 ) was  a  Romano-British Christian  मिशनरी  and bishop  in  Ireland .
Known as  the  `` Apostle  of   आयरलैंड  '' , he is the primary patron  संत  of the  द्वीप   साथ  with Saints Brigid and Columba .
Two authentic letters  इससे  him survive , from  जिससे  come the  तभी  generally accepted details of his  जीवन  .
जब   he  was about  16   ,  he was  captured   इससे   उसके  home and taken  as  a slave to Ireland ,  जहाँ   he  lived  लिये   छह  years  पहले   escaping   और   returning  to  उसके  family .
After becoming a  मौलवी  ,  he   लौटे  to northern and western Ireland as an ordained  बिशप  , but little  is  known  परिचय  the  स्थान   जहाँ  he worked .
By the seventh century  ,  he had  already  come to be revered  as  the  संरक्षक   संत  of  आयरलैंड   .
सबसे   उपलब्धियाँ   विवरण  of  उसके  life are from subsequent hagiographies ,  और   ये  are now  नहीं  accepted without detailed  आलोचना   .
The Annals of Ulster state  कि  he arrived in Ireland  in   432  , ministered  in  Ulster  around  443 , and died  in   457  or  461  .
The text ,  however   ,  distinguishes between  ``   बूढ़ा   पैट्रिक  '' ( thought  to  mean Palladius ) and ``  पैट्रिक  ,  archapostle  of the Scots  ,  ''  जो  died in  492  .
The  वास्तविक  dates  of  Patrick 's life can not be fixed with certainty but , on a  फैली   निर्वचन  , he was active as a  मिशनरी  in Ireland during the second half of  the   5th   सदी   .
He is generally credited with  होने  the first bishop  of  Armagh , Primate of All  आयरलैंड  .
Saint  पैट्रिक  's  दिन  is observed on March 17  ,  the  तिथि   of  his death  .
It  is  celebrated  दोनो  inside and  बाहर  Ireland ,  as  both  a  religious and , especially outside  आयरलैंड  , secular  अवकाश   .
In  the   dioceses  of Ireland ,  it  is both a solemnity and a  पावन   दिन   of   दायित्व  ; outside  आयरलैंड   ,   it  can be a  जश्न  of Ireland  itself   .
लकीर   खण्ड  in the golden ratio
A golden rectangle  साथ   longer  side a and shorter side b , when placed  सटा  to a square  साथ   पहलू  of length a , will produce a  समान  golden rectangle  साथ  longer  पक्ष  a + b and shorter side a .
This illustrates  the  relationship .
In mathematics  और  the arts , two quantities are in the golden ratio if the  अनुपात  of the sum of the  quantities  to the larger quantity is equal  to   the  ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one  .
The figure on the  सही  illustrates  the   ज्यामितीय  relationship  .
Expressed algebraically:
where the Greek  अक्षर   फाई  ( ) represents the golden ratio .
इसके  value is:
The golden ratio is also called  the  golden  खण्ड  ( Latin : sectio aurea  )   or  golden mean .
Other names include  चरम   और   औसत  ratio  ,  medial section ,  दैवी  proportion , divine section  (  Latin :  sectio   divina   )  , golden proportion  ,   सुनहरी  cut ,  और  golden number .
अनेक  20th  सदी  artists and architects  have  proportioned  उनके   works  to  सन्निकट   the  golden ratio—especially in  the  form of  the  golden rectangle , in which the ratio of the longer  पक्ष  to the shorter is the golden ratio—believing this  proportion   to   be   aesthetically  pleasing  (  see  अनुप्रयोग  and observations  नीचे  ) .
Mathematicians since  यूक्लिड  have  पढ़ाई   the  properties  of  the golden  अनुपात  , including its  रूप  in the dimensions of a regular pentagon and in a golden  आयताकार  , which can be cut into a square and  a  smaller rectangle  साथ   the  same  पहलू   अनुपात  .
The  सुनहरी  ratio has also been  प्रयुक्त  to analyze the proportions of natural objects as well as man-made systems such as financial markets ,  in  some cases based  on   संदिग्ध  fits to data  .
North Myrtle  बीच  is a coastal resort city  in  Horry County ,  दक्षिण   कैरोलिना   ,  United States  .
It was created in 1968  इससे   चार  existing  municipalities  north  of  Myrtle Beach , and  serves  as one of  the   प्राथमिक   पर्यटक  towns  साथ  the Grand Strand .
The population  थी  13,752  at   the   2010  census .
संसार  War  i  ( WWI  )   थी   a  global war  केंद्रित  in  यूरोपीय   कि  began on 28  जुलाई  1914 and lasted until  11  November 1918 .
it  was  predominantly  called the World War or the  ग्रेट   युद्ध  from  इसके  occurrence until  the  start of  संसार   युद्ध  II in 1939  ,  and the First  संसार  War  or  World War  i   thereafter  .
It involved all  the  world 's great powers , which  यहूद  assembled in  दो   opposing  alliances  :   the  Allies (  आधारित  on the Triple Entente  of  the  संयुक्त  Kingdom , France and Russia )  और   the  Central Powers (  originally   the  Triple Alliance of Germany  ,  Austria-Hungary and  इटली  ; but ,  as  Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter  into  the  युद्ध   )  .
These alliances were both reorganised  और  expanded  as  more nations entered the war :  इटली  , Japan  और   the  United States joined  the   allies  ,  और   the  Ottoman  साम्राज्य  and  बुल्गारिया  the Central  शक्तियां  .
Ultimately , more than 70  लाख  military  कर्मियों   ,  including  60  million  europeans  , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history  .
More than  9  million  combatants  were killed , largely because of  technological  advancements  कि  led  to  enormous  increases  in the lethality of weapons without  सम्बन्धित  improvements in protection or mobility  .
it  was the fifth- deadliest conflict  in  world history ,  subsequently  paving the way for various political  परिवर्तन   ,   ऐसे  as  revolutions  in many of the nations involved  .
One of the long-term causes  of  the war was the  पुनरुत्थान   of  imperialism  in  the foreign  नीतियों   of   the   ग्रेट   शक्तियां  of Europe  .
More immediately , the  हत्या  of Archduke Franz  फर्डिनेंड  of Austria  ,  the heir  to   the  throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June  1914  by  यूगोस्लाव   राष्ट्रवादी   gavrilo  Princip  in  Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary  subsequently   वितरित  an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia  .
Several alliances  formed  over the previous decades were invoked  .
Within  सप्ताह  , the  प्रमुख  powers were  at  war and ,  via  their  colonies  ,  the   विरोध  soon spread  around  the world .
On 28 July  ,  the  austro-hungarians  fired the  पहला  shots of the war  as   तैयारी  for the  आक्रमण  of Serbia .
जबकि  the Russians mobilised ,  the  Germans invaded neutral Belgium  और   ध्वज  on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany  .
After  the  German march on Paris was brought  to  a halt—the so-called  चमत्कार   of  the  marne  —the  पश्चिमी   सामने  settled  into  a  स्थिर   बैटल   of  attrition with a trench  लकीर  that changed little  जबतक  1917 .
On  the  Eastern Front ,  the  Russian army was  कामयाब  against  the  Austro-Hungarians , but  थी  stopped in its  आक्रमण  of  ईस्ट  Prussia by the  germans   .
In November  the  Ottoman Empire joined  the   युद्ध  , opening up fronts  in   the  Caucasus ,  मेसोपोटामिया   और  the  sinai  .
इटली   और  Bulgaria went to war  in   1915  and  रोमानिया  in  1916  .
In Russia  ,   the  tsar 's  सरकारी  collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
बाद   a  1918 German  अप्रिय  along the  पश्चिमी   सामने  , the Allies  drove  back the Germans in a series  of  successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
जर्मनी   ,  which had its own trouble with revolutionaries  ,  agreed to an  armistice  on 11  नवम्बर  1918 .
The war ended in  विजय   लिये   the   allies  .
कार्यक्रम  on  the  home  fronts  were  as  tumultuous as on  the   बैटल  fronts ,  as  the participants tried  to  mobilize  उनके   जनशक्ति  and economic  संसाधन   to  fight  a  total  युद्ध  .
By the end  of   the   युद्ध   ,  four major imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian  और  Ottoman  empires—ceased  to  मौजूद  .
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory , while the latter two  यहूद  dismantled entirely .
The map of central  यूरोपीय  was redrawn into  अनेक   छोटी   राज्य   .
the  League  of  Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another  ऐसे  conflict .
the  European  राष्ट्रवाद  spawned by the war and  the   ब्रेकअप  of  empires  ,  the  repercussions of Germany 's defeat  और  problems  साथ   the  Treaty  of   versailles   हैं  agreed to be factors  contributing  to  संसार  War  ii  .
Camden is a  नगर  in Camden  काउंटी  , New  जर्सी  , United  राज्य  .
it  is  the  county  सीट  ,  स्तिथ  across the Delaware River  इससे  Philadelphia .
As of the  2010  United  राज्य   जनसांख्यिकी  the city had a  कुल  population of 77,344 , representing  a   मनाही  of 2,560 ( 3.2 % )  इससे  the  79,904  residents enumerated  दौरान   the  2000 Census , which had  in   फेरे   अस्वीकृत  by  7,588   (  8.7  %  ) from the 87,492 counted  in  the  1990   जनसांख्यिकी  .
camden  ranked as the  12th-most   populous  municipality in the state in  2010   बाद   having  been ranked  10th  in 2000 .
Camden  थी  originally incorporated as a city on February 13 , 1828 , from portions of the now-defunct Newton Township ,  जबकि  the area  थी  still part of Gloucester  काउंटी  .
On March 13 , 1844 , Camden became part of  the  newly formed Camden  काउंटी  .
Although once  a  thriving center  लिये  manufacturing and  उद्योग  , Camden is  शायद   बेहतरीन  known for  इसके  struggles  साथ  urban dysfunction .
तीन  Camden  mayors  have been jailed for corruption  ,  the  सबसे  recent being Milton Milan  in  2000  .
Since 2005  the  school  प्रणाली  and police department  have  been operated by the state  of  New  जर्सी  ;  the   कब्ज़ा  expired  in  2012 .
In  2008  , Camden had  the  highest  अपराधों   रेट  in the U.S. with 2,333 violent crimes per 100,000 people while the  नेशनल  average was 455  प्रति  100,000  .
Camden  पब्लिक  schools spent $  23,770  per student  (  $ 19,118 on a budgetary per-pupil basis  )  in  the   2009–10  school year and two-thirds of the students graduate  .
Two out of every five residents are below the national poverty line .
Amitriptyline  (  Tryptomer , Elavil , Tryptizol , Laroxyl  ,   saroten   ,  Sarotex , Lentizol , Endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant  (  TCA )  .
It is the most  widely  used TCA and has at least equal  efficacy   विरूद्ध  depression as the  नए   क्लास  of  ssris   according  to a study  इससे  early 2001  .
As well as  reducing   depressive  symptoms ,  ये   प्रकार   of  tricyclics also  आसानी   migraines  , tension headaches , anxiety attacks and  कुछ   schizophrenic  symptoms .
It  is   भी   ज्ञात   to   reduce  aggression and  हिंसक  behavior  .
A computer is a general  purpose  device  कि  can be  प्रोग्रामित  to carry out  a  finite set  of  arithmetic  or  logical operations  .
Since a  अनुक्रम   of   परिचालन  can be readily  बदला   ,  the computer can solve more than  एक  kind  of   प्रॉब्लम  .
Conventionally , a  कंप्यूटर  consists of at least one processing element , typically a central processing unit (  cpu  )  और   कुछ  form of memory .
The processing  तत्व   carries   आउट   गणित   और  logic  परिचालन  , and  a  sequencing and control  ईकाई  that can  बदलें  the order of operations based on stored information  .
Peripheral devices  allow  information to  be  retrieved from an external source  ,  and  the  result of operations  saved   और  retrieved .
The first electronic  डिजिटल  computers were developed  between   1940  and  1945  in  the  United  किंगडम  and United  राज्य   .
Originally they were  the  size  of   a  large room , consuming as much power  as  several  सौ  modern personal  कंप्यूटर  ( PCs ) .
In  इस  era  mechanical   एनालॉग  computers  यहूद   प्रयुक्त  for military  अनुप्रयोग  .
Modern computers based  on  integrated circuits  हैं  millions  to  billions  of  times  अधिक  capable  than   the  early  मशीने  , and occupy a  भिन्न  of the  स्पेस  .
Simple computers  हैं  small  पर्याप्त  to fit into  मोबाईल  devices , and mobile computers  can  be powered by  छोटी   बैटरी  .
Personal computers  in   उनके   विभिन्न  forms are icons  of  the Information Age and are what most people think of  as  “computers.”
However  ,  the  अंतःस्थापित  computers found in many devices from MP3  खिलाड़ी  to  सेनानी   वायुयान  and from  खिलौने   to   औद्योगिक   robots  are the most numerous  .
``  Barefoot and pregnant  ''   is  a  phrase   सबसे  commonly associated with the  विवादास्पद  idea that  महिलाओं  should not work outside the  घर  and  चाहिए   have  many children during  उनके  reproductive years  .
It has several other meanings as well  .
It is a  फिगर  of speech  .
the   phrase   ``  barefoot  और  pregnant '' was probably first used  sometime  before 1950 .
An article from 1949 states , `` By  जल्दी   1949  , TWA  was—in  the words of  इसके  new president , Ralph  S.   damon—both  'barefoot  और   गर्भवती   .  ' ''
Its usage may date as  जल्दी  as the  1910s  .
An article published in 1958 states the phrase  थी  first used by  a  `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years earlier  .
`` Some forty years ago ,  dr.  Hertzler  उन्नत  a hypothesis which young women of  आज  seem  झुकी  on proving  correct.   '
The only way  to  keep a  स्त्री   प्रसन्न  ,  '  he said , 'is  to  keep her barefoot and  गर्भवती  . '  ''
Oakhurst is  a  census-designated place and unincorporated community within Ocean Township ,  in  Monmouth County , New Jersey , United  राज्य  .
As of  the   2010   संयुक्त  States Census , the  cdp   's  population was 3,995  .
University  of  Phoenix Stadium ,  खोली   अगस्त  1 , 2006  ,  is a multipurpose football  स्टेडियम   स्तिथ   in  Glendale ,  एरिज़ोना  .
It  is  the home of  the  Arizona Cardinals of the National Football League  (  NFL ) and the annual Fiesta Bowl .
The stadium is  स्तिथ   अगला  door  to  the Jobing.com Arena  और  it features the first fully  retractable  natural grass playing surface  निर्मित   in  the United States on top of an  एयरफील्ड   प्रणालियों  drainage  प्रणाली  .
An opening on one side of  the   स्टेडियम  allows the  playing   फ़ील्ड  to move  to   the   exterior   of  the building  ,  allowing the  संपूर्ण  natural  turf  playing surface to be  उजागर   to  daylight .
The  स्टेडियम   रै  hosted Super Bowl XLII  ,  and the 2011  bcs  National Championship Game  ,  a  खेल   कि  it hosts  प्रत्येक  four years ,  जिससे  set the venue 's entertainment  उपस्थिति   रिकार्ड  of 78,603 on January 11 , 2011  .
it  will again host Super  कटोरी  XLIX in 2015 .
The University of  फीनिक्स  acquired  the   नामकरण  rights  in  September 2006 , shortly  बाद  the  स्टेडियम   था   खोली   अंतर्गत   the   नाम   कार्डिनल्स  Stadium  .
The `` University of Phoenix ``  नाम   is  applied as  a   कॉरपोरेट  sponsor ,  और   नहीं   as   the   घर  stadium of  the  University (  जिससे  has no intercollegiate  एथलेटिक्स  program ) .
The stadium has  भी  hosted the  डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई   इवेंट   रेसलमेनिया  XXVI with  72,219  fans  in  attendance .
The  इवेंट   थी  held in the stadium  on  March 28th 2010 .
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain (  सितंबर  8 ,  1828  – February 24 , 1914 ) , born as  लॉरेंस   जोशुआ   चेम्बरलेन  , was an American college professor  इससे  the State of  maine   ,  who volunteered  दौरान  the American Civil War  to  join  the  Union Army  .
हालांकि  having  no   पहले  education in  सैन्य  strategies , he became a highly respected  और  decorated Union officer ,  reaching   the  rank of brigadier general ( and brevet major  सामान्य  ) .
For  उसके   gallantry  at Gettysburg  ,  he was awarded the Medal of  सम्मान  .
He  थी  given the honor of commanding the Union troops at the  आत्मसमर्पण   रस्म   लिये   the  infantry  of  Robert E. Lee  's   फौज   at  Appomattox , Virginia .
After  the  war  ,  he  डाला   राजनीती  as  a  Republican  और  served  चार  one-year terms of office as  the   32nd  Governor  of  Maine  .
He  परोसा  on the faculty , and as president  ,  of his  अल्मा  mater , Bowdoin  कॉलेज  .
an  inning  ,  or innings ,  is   a  fixed-length segment  of  a  खेल  in any of  a  variety  of  sports  –  most notably cricket and baseball during which  एक   टोली  attempts  to   स्कोर  while the  अन्य   टोली  attempts to prevent  the  first from scoring .
In cricket ,  the  term  पारी  is both  एकवचन  and plural  और  is always spelled  और  pronounced  साथ  the  टर्मिनल  `` s '' .
In baseball and softball , the singular  रूप   is  inning  और  only  the  plural takes an ``  s  ''  .
in  many other  खेल  ,  the  length of the  खेल  is dictated by a clock  और  teams swap offensive  और  defensive roles dynamically  by   लेने   कब्ज़ा   of  a ball or similar item .
in   बेसबॉल   और  cricket  ,  however , one  टोली  , said to be ``  बल्लेबाजी   ''   ,  attempts to score  ``  runs ''  —see  run ( baseball ) and run  (  cricket ) —while the other  टोली   ,  said  to   be  `` fielding '' , attempts to prevent the scoring of runs and get members of the  बल्लेबाजी   टोली  out .
the   टीमों  switch places after the  क्षेत्ररक्षण  team  रै  succeeded  in  getting  a  fixed number of players out ,  बनाना   a   क्लॉक   अनावश्यक   .
In cricket , the term innings is also used  to  refer  to   the  play  of   एक  particular  खिलाड़ी  (  स्मिथ  had a poor innings , scoring  तभी   12  ) .
By extension , this term  can  be used  in  British English  लिये  almost any  कार्यकलाप   जिससे  takes  a   काल   of  time (  the   उदार   सरकारी  had a  शुभ  innings , but finally lost office  in  1972 ,  or   तुम  've had a  मेला   पारी  , now it 's  my  turn , meaning  ``  you have spoken  लिये  long enough , now let me speak  ''  ) .
It is also  प्रयुक्त  in  सन्दर्भ  to someone  जो   रै  died  at   a  reasonably  बूढ़ा  age or  जिया  a rich  और   rewarding  life ( Ah , well .
John was  89  .
At least he had  a  good  पारी  ) .
the  baseball-derived parallel to this in American English is the term at  चमगादड़   .
According to the Oxford English  शब्दकोष  , the  पद  innings  रै  been used in  सन्दर्भ  to cricket since  at  least 1735 .
as   क्रिकेट  was a mature  ,  highly organized sport in the 1600s in  इंग्लैण्ड  , the  पद  's origin could well  precede   इस  first  अंकित  usage .
the  word inning meaning  'a   महफ़िल   in  ' is first  अंकित  in  1522  , and could be  सम्बन्धित  .
Adenosine deaminase deficiency , also called ADA deficiency  or  ADA-SCID , is an  autosomal  recessive  metabolic  disorder that causes immunodeficiency .
it  occurs in fewer than one in 100,000 live births  विश्वव्यापी  .
it  accounts for about 15  %  of all  मामले  of severe combined immunodeficiency (  scid   )  .
It  is   बहुत  rare  ,  you  have  a 3 % chance of getting this  जीन  .
ADA deficiency may be present  in   शैशव  ,  बाल्यकाल  , adolescense , or adulthood .
Age of  onset  and severity is related to  कुछ  29 known genotypes associated with the  विकार   .
An example of urban poverty  in  this slum in Jakarta  ,  Indonesia
Poverty is the state  of  one who lacks  a  certain amount  of  material possessions  or  money .
Absolute  गरीबी  or  destitution   refers   to  the  पिछडे  of  मौलिक  human needs ,  जिससे  commonly includes food ,  जल  , sanitation ,  कपडे  , shelter , health  परवाह  and education .
सापेक्ष  poverty is defined  contextually  as economic inequality in the location or society in which people live .
For much  of  history ,  गरीबी   थी  considered  largely  unavoidable as traditional  मोड्स  of production were insufficient to give an entire population a comfortable standard of  जीना  .
बाद   the  industrial revolution ,  द्रव्यमान  production  in  factories made wealth  increasingly  more  inexpensive   और  accessible .
of   अधिक  importance is the  modernization   of  agriculture , such as  fertilizers  , in order to provide  पर्याप्त  yield  to   फीड  the  जनसांख्यिकी  .
the   सप्लाई  of basic needs can be  प्रतिबंधित   by  constraints  on  government services such  as  corruption , tax avoidance , debt and loan  conditionalities  and by the brain  नाली   of  health care and  शैक्षणिक  professionals .
Strategies  of  increasing income to  मेक   मौलिक  needs more affordable typically include welfare  ,  economic  freedoms  , and providing financial  सेवाएं  .
Poverty reduction is  a   प्रमुख  goal and issue for many international organizations such  as   the   संयुक्त   राष्ट्र  and  the  World  बैंको  .
The  संसार  Bank estimated 1.29 billion people  यहूद  living  in  absolute  गरीबी  in  2008   .
Of these  ,  about 400  लाख  people in absolute poverty lived in  इण्डिया   और  173 million people in  चीन  .
In  यूएसए  1 in 5 children lives in poverty .
In terms  of   प्रतिशत  of  क्षेत्रीय  populations , sub-Saharan  अफ़्रीकी  at 47  %  had the  उच्चतम   incidence  rate of absolute poverty in 2008 .
Between  1990  and 2010 , about 663  लाख  people  स्थानांतरित  above  the  absolute poverty level .
स्टिल   ,  extreme poverty is a global challenge  ;  it  is  observed  in  all parts  of  the world , including the developed  economies  .
Mushroom  विषाक्तता  ( also  ज्ञात  as  mycetism  ) refers to harmful effects from ingestion of toxic substances present  in   a  mushroom .
These  लक्षण  can vary  इससे  slight gastrointestinal discomfort  to  death .
The toxins present are secondary  metabolites  produced in specific  biochemical  pathways  in  the  fungal  cells .
Mushroom poisoning  is   प्रायः  the  परिणाम   of   ingestion  of wild mushrooms  बाद  misidentification of  a  toxic  मशरूम   as   an   खाद्य  species .
The most common reason  लिये  this  misidentification  is close resemblance in  शर्तें   of  colour and  सामान्य   morphology   of  the toxic mushrooms  प्रजाति   साथ  edible species .
Even very experienced wild mushroom  gatherers  are upon  विरल  occasion poisoned by eating toxic species  ,  despite  होने   खूब  aware of the risks  ,  through carelessness  .
To prevent mushroom  विषाक्तता  , mushroom  gatherers  need  to  be very  परिचित   साथ   the   मशरूम  they  intend  to  collect  as well as  साथ  any similar-looking toxic species  .
In  जोड  , edibility  of  mushrooms may depend on methods  of  preparation  लिये  cooking .
Collectors also need to be well aware  कि  edibility or  toxicity  of some species varies with geographic location .
Human height  is  the  अलहदा  from the  नीचे  of  the  feet to  the  top  of  the  सिर  in a human body  ,  standing  वीर्यपात  .
When populations  share  genetic background and environmental factors ,  औसत  height is  अक्सर  characteristic within  the   समूह  .
Exceptional height variation (  around   20  % deviation  इससे   औसत  ) within  ऐसे  a population is sometimes due  to   gigantism  or  dwarfism  , which are medical  शर्तें   caused  by specific genes or  अंतःस्रावी   abnormalities   .
in  regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare  ,  environmental factors like chronic  कुपोषण   दौरान  childhood or adolescence may account for  विलम्बित  growth  and/or  ( in severe cases ) marked  reductions  in adult stature even without the  उपस्थिति   of  any of these medical  शर्तें  .
Apollo 11 was the  spaceflight  that landed the  पहला  humans  ,   अमेरिकी  Neil Armstrong  और  Buzz  एल्ड्रिन  , on the Moon on July 20 ,  1969  , at  20:18  UTC .
Armstrong became the  पहला  to step  onto  the lunar surface 6 hours later on  जुलाई   21  at  02:56   utc  .
Armstrong  खर्च  about  दो  and a  हाफ  hours outside the  spacecraft  , Aldrin slightly less ; and  साथ  they collected  of  lunar material  लिये  return  to  Earth  .
A  तीसरा   सदस्य   of  the mission  ,  Michael Collins , piloted the command  spacecraft   अलोन  in  चंद्र  orbit  जबतक   आर्मस्ट्रांग  and Aldrin  लौटे  to it just  अंतर्गत  a day later for the trip  वापस  to  धरती  .
शुभारम्भ   by   a  Saturn  v  rocket from Kennedy Space  बीच  in Merritt Island  ,   फ्लोरिडा  on July  16   ,  Apollo 11  थी  the  पांचवां  manned  मिशन   of  NASA 's Apollo program .
The Apollo  spacecraft  had  तीन   भाग  :  a   कमांड  Module with a  केबिन   लिये  the three astronauts which was the  तभी   भाग  which  उतरा   वापस  on Earth ; a Service Module which  समर्थित  the  कमांड   मोड्यूल   साथ  propulsion  ,  electrical power , oxygen  और   जल  ; and  a  Lunar  मोड्यूल   लिये   लैंडिंग   on  the Moon .
After being sent  to  the Moon by the Saturn V 's upper stage , the  astronauts  separated the spacecraft from it and travelled for three days  जबतक  they entered  into  lunar orbit  .
Armstrong  और  Aldrin  तब  moved into the Lunar Module  और   उतरा  in the Sea of Tranquility .
वे  stayed a total  of   परिचय  21 and a half hours on the  चंद्र  surface .
बाद  lifting  बंद  in the upper  भाग  of the Lunar Module  और   rejoining  Collins  in  the Command  मोड्यूल  , they returned to Earth and landed in  the  Pacific  समंदर   on  July 24 .
ब्रॉडकास्ट  on  सजीव  TV  to   a  world-wide audience ,  आर्मस्ट्रांग  stepped onto  the  lunar surface and  वर्णित  the event  as  ``  एक  small step for [ a ] man  ,  one giant leap for  mankind  . ''
Apollo  11  effectively ended the Space  रेस   और  fulfilled  a  national goal proposed  in  1961 by the  लेट  U.S.  अध्यक्ष  John  F.  Kennedy in  a  speech  पहले  the United  राज्य  Congress , `` before this decade is out , of landing a  man  on the Moon and  returning  him safely to the Earth  .  ''
the   फीफा  World Cup ,  प्रायः   बस  the  संसार   कप   ,  is an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  association football  प्रतियोगिता  contested by the senior  मेन   's   नेशनल  teams of  the  members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) ,  the  sport 's  वैश्विक  governing  देह   .
The championship  रै  been awarded every four  सालो   चूंकि   the  inaugural tournament in 1930 , except in  1942  and 1946 when it was  नहीं   आयोजित  because of the Second World  युद्ध  .
The current champions  हैं   स्पेन  , who  जीती  the 2010  टूर्नामेंट  .
The  वर्तमान  format of the tournament involves 32  टीमों  competing  लिये  the title  at  venues within the  मेजबान  nation ( s ) over  a  period of about  a   माह  ; this phase  is  often  पुकारा  the World  कप  Finals .
A qualification phase  ,  which currently  takes  place over the preceding three years ,  is   प्रयुक्त  to  determine  which  टीमों  qualify for the tournament together with the host nation  (  s ) .
The 19 World  कप  tournaments have been won by eight different national teams  .
ब्राज़ील  have  जीती   पाँच  times  ,  and they are the  तभी   टोली   to  have played  in  every  टूर्नामेंट  .
the  other World Cup  विजेता  are Italy , with  चार   शीर्षक  ; Germany , with three  शीर्षक   ;  Argentina and  inaugural   विजेता  Uruguay , with  दो  titles each  ;  and  इंग्लैण्ड   ,  France , and Spain ,  साथ  one title each .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting  इवेंट   ;  an estimated 715.1  लाख   लोगों  watched the  फाइनल  match of  the   2006  FIFA  संसार  Cup held in  जर्मनी   .
The  अगला   तीन  World  cups  will be hosted by Brazil  in  2014 , Russia  in  2018 , and Qatar in  2022   .
Genocide  is  a  पद   coined  in 1944 by  राफेल  Lemkin  to  describe the deliberate  और  systematic  विनाश   ,  in whole or  in  part ,  of   an  ethnic , racial  ,  religious , or national  समूह   .
It is  पारिभाषित  in Article 2  of  the Convention on the Prevention  और  Punishment  of  the  अपराधों   of  Genocide (  cppcg   )   of   1948   as  `` any of the  following   अधिनियमों  committed  साथ   intent  to destroy ,  in   पूरे  or  in  part , a national ,  ethnical   ,   जातिगत   or  religious  समूह  , as such : killing members of the group ;  causing  serious  bodily  or mental harm to  सदस्यों  of the  समूह  ; deliberately  inflicting  on the groups conditions of life  ,  calculated to bring about  इसके  physical destruction in whole or in part ;  imposing  measures intended to prevent births  भीतर   the   समूह   ;   [  and ]  forcibly  transferring children of the group to another group . ''
skulls  of  पीड़ितों  of the Rwandan  नरसंहार
the   प्रस्तावना  to the CPPCG not only states  कि  ``  नरसंहार  is  a  crime under  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  law , contrary to  the  spirit and  aims  of  the  United  राष्ट्र   और  condemned by the civilized world  ''  ,  लकिन  also  कि   ``   at  all periods of  इतिहास  genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity  ''  .
determining  what historical  कार्यक्रम  constitute a  नरसंहार   और  which  हैं  merely criminal or inhuman behavior  is  not  a  clear-cut matter  .
In nearly every case where accusations of  नरसंहार   have  circulated  ,  partisans of various sides  have  fiercely disputed the interpretation and details of the  इवेंट  ,  प्रायः   to  the  पाइंट  of promoting wildly different versions  of  the facts .
an  accusation of  नरसंहार   is  certainly not  लिया  lightly and will almost always be controversial .
The following  सूची  of genocides  और   कथित   genocides  should  be  understood  in   इस  context  और  can not be  regarded  as the  फाइनल  word on these subjects .
A timing belt is a non-slipping mechanical drive belt  और  the term may refer to  either:
Toothed  बेल्ट  ,  a  flexible  बेल्ट  with  दांत  moulded  onto  its inner surface
Timing  बेल्ट   (  camshaft )  ,   a  toothed  बेल्ट   प्रयुक्त   to  drive the camshaft (  s  ) within an internal combustion  इंजन
The culture of the United States  is  primarily a Western  संस्कृति   ,  but is also  बहकावे  by Native American  ,  African  ,   एशियाई  , Polynesian ,  और  Latin American  संस्कृतियों  .
अमरीकी   संस्कृति   प्रारंभ   इसके  formation  over   10,000  years  पहले  with the migration of Paleo-Indians  इससे   एशिया  into the region that is  आज   the  continental  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
it  has its own  अद्वितीय  social and  सांस्कृतिक  characteristics such  as  dialect ,  म्यूज़िक  , arts  ,  social habits ,  भोजन   ,   और   लोकगीत  .
the  United States of America is  an   ethnically  and  racially  diverse  देश  as a result of large-scale immigration from many different  देशों  throughout its history .
Its chief  जल्दी  European influences  आए  from English , Scottish , Welsh and  आयरिश  settlers of colonial  अमेरिका   दौरान  British  नियम  .
British culture , due to  औपनिवेशिक  ties  साथ  Britain that spread the  अंग्रेज़ी  language , legal system and other cultural  inheritances  , had  a   formative   influence  .
Other important  प्रभाव  came from other parts of  पश्चिमी  Europe , especially  जर्मनी  , France ,  और  Italy .
Original elements  भी  play a  दमदार   भूमिका  , such as the  आविष्कार  of  jeffersonian  democracy .
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes  on   the  State  of   वर्जिनिया   थी   शायद  the first influential  घरेलू   सांस्कृतिक  critique  by   an  American  और  a  प्रतिक्रियावादी  piece to  the  prevailing European consensus that  अमेरिका   's  domestic originality was degenerate  .
प्रचलित   विचार  and ideals that evolved domestically , such  as  national holidays , uniquely  अमरीकी  sports , military  परंपरा   ,   और  innovations  in  the  कला  and  entertainment  give a strong sense of  नेशनल   अभिमान  among  the   जनसांख्यिकी   as  a whole  .
American culture includes  दोनो  conservative  और  liberal  तत्व  , scientific and religious  प्रतिस्पर्धात्मकता   ,  political  structures  ,  रिस्क  taking and free expression  ,  materialist and moral elements  .
Despite certain  सतत   वैचारिक  principles ( e.g . individualism , egalitarianism  ,  and faith in freedom and democracy  )  ,  अमरीकी   संस्कृति  has  a  variety  of  expressions due to its  भौगोलिक   स्केल   और   जनसांख्यिकी   विविधता  .
The  लचीलापन  of U.S.  संस्कृति  and its highly  सांकेतिक  nature  सीसे   कुछ  researchers to  categorize  American culture as  a  mythic identity  ;  others see  it  as  अमरीकी  exceptionalism  .
it  also  शामिल  elements that  विकसित  from Indigenous Americans  ,  and other  जातीय  cultures—most prominently the culture of  अफ़्रीकी  Americans , cultures from Latin  अमेरिका  ,  और  Asian American  संस्कृतियों  .
Many  अमरीकी   सांस्कृतिक  elements  ,   विशेषकर  from popular culture , have spread across the  ग्लोब   through  modern mass  मीडिया  .
The United  राज्य  has  प्रायः  been  विचार  of  as   a  melting  घट  ,  लकिन  beginning in the late  1990s  and early 2000s ,  it   रुझान  towards  सांस्कृतिक  diversity , pluralism and the image of  a  salad  कटोरी  instead  .
Due to the  extent  of  अमरीकी  culture , there  हैं   अनेक  integrated  लकिन  unique social subcultures  भीतर   the  United States  .
The  सांस्कृतिक  affiliations an individual  in  the United States may  have   commonly  depend on social class  ,   राजनैतिक   अभिविन्यास   और  a multitude of  जनसांख्यिकी  characteristics  ऐसे  as religious background ,  occupation  and ethnic group  सदस्यता  .
Samoan (  gagana   fa'a  Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : ) is  the  language of the Samoan Islands , comprising the independent country  of  Samoa and the United  राज्य   territory   of  American Samoa .
It  is  an official  language—alongside  English —in  दोनो  jurisdictions .
Samoan , a Polynesian  भाषा   ,   is  the  पहला   भाषा  for most  of   the  Samoa  आइलैंड्स   '  population  of  about 246,000 .
With many Samoan people living in other  देशों  ,  the  total number  of  speakers worldwide  is  estimated  at  370,000 .
The  भाषा  is  notable  for  the  phonological  मतभेद  between  औपचारिक  and  अनौपचारिक  speech  as   खूब   as  a  ceremonial   रूप  used in Samoan  छाये   .
A glucose tolerance  परीक्षण   is  a medical test in which  ग्लूकोज  is given and blood samples taken afterward to  determine  how quickly it is cleared from the blood .
The test is usually used to test for  मधुमेह  , insulin  प्रतिरोध  , and sometimes reactive hypoglycemia and acromegaly  ,  or  rarer   विकार  of carbohydrate metabolism .
In  the  most commonly performed version  of  the test ,  an  oral glucose tolerance test ( OGTT ) , a  मानक  dose  of  glucose is ingested by  मुँह  and blood  स्तर  are checked  दो  hours later  .
Many variations of the GTT  have   महरूम  devised over  the  years for various  उद्देश्य   ,  with different standard  doses  of glucose , different routes of administration , different intervals  और  durations of  sampling  , and  विभिन्न  substances  measured  in  जोड   to  blood  ग्लूकोज  .
`` What  परिचय   me  '' is a  सोंग  written by  गैरी  Frost and  frances  Swan ,  पहला  recorded by Australian rock band Moving  तस्वीरें  from their album Days of  innocence  .
It  थी  the  बैंड  's  पहला  number-one single  in  Australia  बिता  six  लगातार  weeks on the  शीर्ष  ; there , it was  the  second-highest selling single of 1982  .
the  success  of  the  सोंग   led  them  to   अमेरिका   जहाँ  it became a hit , reaching #  29  on the U.S  .  Billboard  hot   100  chart .
the  song stayed  in  the  u.S.  charts for such  a  long time that it managed  to  make Billboards top 100 Pop Singles of 1983  ,  at # 88 , a rare  feat   लिये  a single  साथ  such a low  शिखर  position .
The  सोंग  made an  असामान्य  comeback in  1989  , peaking at # 46  .
On  the   बाएँ  a chicken  अंडा  , the egg most  commonly  eaten  by  humans  ,   और  on the  सही  two quail eggs
अंडे  are laid by females of many different  प्रजाति   ,  including birds , reptiles , amphibians , and fish , and  have  been  खाया  by mankind for thousands of years  .
Bird and reptile  अंडे   consist  of  a  protective eggshell  ,  albumen  (  egg white  )  ,  और  vitellus ( egg yolk )  ,  contained within various  पतला   झिल्लियों  .
Popular choices for egg consumption  हैं  chicken , duck ,  बटेर   ,  roe , and caviar  ,   लकिन  the egg most often consumed  by   इंसानो  is the chicken egg ,  by   a   चौड़ी   हाशिया  .
अंडा  yolks and whole eggs store significant amounts of  प्रोटीन  and choline ,  और  are  widely  used  in   cookery   .
due  to their protein  सामग्री  , the United  राज्य  Department  of   कृषि  (  यूएसडीए  ) categorizes  अंडे  as  meats  within the Food Guide Pyramid .
despite  the  nutritional  value of eggs  ,   वहीँ  are some  संभावित   स्वास्थ्य   मुद्दे  arising from  अंडा  quality , storage ,  और  individual allergies .
Chickens and other egg-laying creatures are widely kept throughout the  संसार   ,   और  mass production of chicken eggs is a global industry .
In 2009 , an estimated  62.1   लाख   मीट्रिक  tons  of  eggs  यहूद  produced  विश्वव्यापी  from  a  total laying flock of approximately  6.4  billion hens  .
There are issues of regional variation in demand and expectation ,  as  well as current  debates  concerning methods  of  mass  उत्पादन  , with the European Union 's  बैन  on battery farming of chickens .
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a  पेशेवर   सॉकर   लीग  representing the sport 's  उच्चतम  level in the United States and Canada .
Sanctioned by the  संयुक्त  States Soccer Federation (  u.S.  Soccer ) ,  the  league is composed of 19 teams  —  16 in the U.S.  और   3  in Canada  .
Seasons presently run  इससे   कूच  to December  ,  with each  टोली  playing 34 games in the regular season .
Ten teams compete  in  the postseason MLS Cup Playoffs culminating in  the   चैंपियनशिप   खेल  ,  the  MLS Cup  .
Major League  सॉकर  was  संस्थापित   in  1993  as  part of the United  राज्य   '  bid to  मेजबान  the 1994 FIFA World  कप  .
The first  ऋतु   took  place  in  1996 beginning with  टेन  teams  .
Instead  of  operating  as  an  संघ  of independently owned teams , MLS is  a  single entity where each  टोली  is owned and controlled by  the  league 's investors .
The league  's  closed membership makes it  एक   of  the world  's  few soccer leagues not using  प्रमोशन  and relegation .
The legality  of  cannabis varies from  देश  to  देश  .
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has been since the beginning  of  widespread cannabis prohibition in the late  1930s  .
however   ,  many countries have decriminalized the possession of small  quantities   of  cannabis , particularly in North America ,  दक्षिण   अमेरिका   और  Europe  .
Furthermore ,  कब्ज़ा  is legal  or   effectively  legal  in   the   नीदरलैंड्स  ,  उत्तर  Korea and would  be   in  the  u.S.  states  of  Colorado and Washington if it were not for  संघीय  law , which  governs   व्यक्तियों  in all states  .
The medicinal  उपयोग  of cannabis  is  legal  in  a  क्रमांक  of  देशों   ,   सहित   कनाडा  , the Czech Republic and Israel .
While federal  विधि   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  bans all sale  और  possession of  कैनबिस  , enforcement  varies  widely at the  राज्य  level and  कुछ   राज्य   have  established medicinal marijuana programs  in  that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington )  have   repealed  their laws prohibiting  the  recreational  उपयोग  of  कैनबिस   और   replaced  them with  a  regulatory regime  ,   भी   contrary  to  संघीय  statute .
कुछ  countries have laws that  हैं   नहीं  as vigorously prosecuted  as   अन्य   लकिन  , apart from the countries that  प्रस्ताव   अभिगम  to medical marijuana , most countries have  विभिन्न  penalties ranging from  lenient  to very  कठोर  .
Some infractions are  लिया  more seriously  in  some countries than others  in  regard to  the  cultivation , use ,  कब्ज़ा   or  transfer of  कैनबिस  for  recreational  use .
A few  jurisdictions   have   lessened   दंड  for possession of  छोटी  quantities of  कैनबिस  , making  it  punishable by confiscation and a fine  ,   बल्कि   than   कारावास   .
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for young or frequent  उपयोक्ता  , with  स्वतंत्रता  from narcotic drugs as the goal  और  a  few   jurisdictions   परमिट   कैनबिस  use for  औषधीय  purposes .
वहीँ  are  भी  changes in a  अधिक  restrictive direction  as  in Canada  .
Drug  परीक्षण  to detect  कैनबिस  are increasingly common in  अनेक  countries and have resulted in  कारावास   वाक्य  and people losing their jobs .
However ,  सरल  possession can carry  long  jail  वाक्य  in some countries  ,   विशेषकर  in parts  of   ईस्ट  Asia and Southeast  एशिया   जहाँ  the  बिक्री  of  कैनबिस  may lead to a sentence  of  life in prison  or  even  निष्पादन  .
in   cardiovascular  physiology , ejection fraction  (  EF  )  represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out  of  the ventricle (  दिल  ) with each heart beat  or   हृदय  cycle  .
It  can   be  applied to either the right ventricle which ejects  via   the  pulmonary  वाल्व   into  the pulmonary circulation  or  the left  ventricle   जिससे  ejects via the aortic valve  into  the systemic  परिसंचरण  .
इमेजिंग  of the physiology  of   the   mammalian  heart is the art  कि   allows  meaningful mathematical  अभिव्यक्ति  defining EF  .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a  विश्वव्यापी  utility enabling  पढ़ाई   of  cardiac performance reproducibly  और   inexpensively  .
Simplified , Ejection fraction is a  गणितीय  product allowed  by  cardiac imaging .
As a  गणितीय  term , Ejection Fraction is  an  extension of  the   कार्य  of  एडाल्फ  Fick  in  cardiac output .
Dedicated technology such as  इकोकार्डियोग्राफी  , Computed Tomography , Magnetic  अनुनाद  Imaging and MUGA scanning  have  definitively  अनुमत   clinically  relevant  गणित  regarding Ischemia , Congenital  दिल  Disease and Heart  विफलता  .
राज्य  Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south state  राजमार्ग   in   the  U.S.  राज्य   of   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,  largely in  the   mojave  Desert  .
The southern portion of the highway is signed as  the   antelope  Valley  फ्रीवे  .
the   रूट  connects  अंतरराज्यीय   5  ,  or  Golden State Freeway , near Santa  clarita  and with U.S. Route  395   निकट  Inyokern .
Legislatively , the  रूट   extends  south  of  I-5  to  State Route 1  in  the Pacific  palisades  area  of  Los  एंजिल्स  ,  however  the  portion  south of the junction with  i-5   रै  not been  constructed   .
The southern part of  the   constructed  route  is  a  व्यस्त  commuter freeway  सेवारत  and connecting  the  communities  of  Santa Clarita  ,  Palmdale and Lancaster with the rest  of  the  वृहद  Los Angeles area .
The northern portion  ,  from Vincent  (  south of  palmdale  ) to Route 395 , is  legislatively  named the Aerospace Highway ,  as  the  राजमार्ग  serves  एडवर्ड्स  Air Force Base , once  एक   of  the  प्राथमिक  landing strips  लिये   नासा  's Space Shuttle  .
This section is rural , following the line between  the  hot Mojave desert  और   the  forming Sierra Nevada mountain  दायरा  .
Most of  रूट   14  is loosely paralleled  by  a main line of the  दक्षिणी  Pacific  रेलरोड  , used  लिये  the  antelope   घाटी  Line of the  metrolink  commuter rail system as  खूब  as a connection between Los Angeles and the California Central Valley  via  Tehachapi Pass .
Linked with US  395  , this  सड़क  connects Los  एंजिल्स  with such  स्थान  as Mammoth Mountain ,  मोनो   झील   ,  Yosemite  नेशनल   पार्क  and Reno , Nevada  .
Route 14 was part  of  U.S. Route 6  prior  to truncation in 1964 , when U.S. 6 was  a  coast-to-coast route from Long Beach to Provincetown , Massachusetts  .
The non-freeway segment of SR 14  इससे   चांदी   महारानी  Road  उत्तर   of  Rosamond to Mojave is known  as  Sierra  राजमार्ग  , as  is  the old  रूटिंग   between  Interstate 5  और   चांदी  Queen  सड़क  where SR  14  has been moved to a newer freeway alignment .
Portions of Route  14  remain signed  साथ  names  संबद्ध   साथ  US 6  ,  including Midland Trail ,  थियोडोर  Roosevelt Highway  और   ग्रैंड   फौज   of  the Republic  राजमार्ग  .
This route is  भाग   of  the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  Freeway and Expressway  प्रणाली  .
Blindness  is  the condition of  lacking  visual perception due to physiological or  neurological  factors .
विभिन्न   तराजू   have  been  विकसित  to  describe   the  extent  of   दृष्टि   घाटा   और  define  दृष्टिहीनता   .
Total blindness is the complete  कमी   of   रूप  and visual light perception and is  clinically  recorded  as  NLP , an abbreviation  लिये  `` no  लाइट   बोध  . ''
Blindness is frequently used to describe severe  विज़ुअल  impairment  साथ  vision .
those   वर्णित  as having only light  बोध  have no more sight than the  क्षमता  to  बताना  light from  अंधेरा  and  the  general direction of  a   लाइट  source  .
To determine which people may need special assistance  क्युकी   of   उनके  visual  disabilities   ,  various governmental  jurisdictions  have formulated more complex definitions referred  to  as legal blindness .
In North  अमेरिका  and most  of   यूरोपीय   ,   विधिक   दृष्टिहीनता  is  पारिभाषित  as visual acuity ( vision  )  of  20/200  (  6/60  ) or less  in  the better eye  साथ  best correction  संभावित  .
This means  कि  a  legally  blind  व्यक्तिगत   होता   have  to stand from an object to see it—with  corrective   lenses   —with   the   वही  degree of clarity as a normally  sighted   व्यक्ति  could from .
In  अनेक   क्षेत्रों  ,  लोगों   साथ  average acuity  जो  nonetheless have a visual field  of   कम  than 20  डिग्री  (  the  norm being 180  डिग्री  ) are  भी  classified as  होने  legally blind .
लगभग  ten  प्रतिशत  of those  deemed  legally  अँधा  , by any measure , have  no  vision .
The rest have some  दृष्टि  , from light perception  अलोन  to relatively good acuity .
कम  vision is sometimes  प्रयुक्त  to describe visual acuities from 20/70 to 20/200  .
By the 10th Revision  of  the WHO International Statistical  वर्गीकरण  of Diseases  ,   चोटों  and Causes of Death , low vision is defined  as  visual  तीक्ष्णता  of  कम   than   20/60  ( 6/18  )  ,  लकिन  equal to  or  better than  20/200   (  6/60 ) , or  सम्बन्धित  visual field loss to less than 20 degrees , in  the  better  नजर  with best possible correction .
Blindness is  पारिभाषित  as  विज़ुअल   तीक्ष्णता  of less  than  20/400  (  6/120  )  , or corresponding visual field  घाटा   to  less than 10 degrees , in the better eye with best possible  सुधार  .
Blind people with undamaged  आँखें  may still register light non-visually for  the   purpose  of circadian  entrainment  to the  24-hour  light/dark cycle .
Light  सिग्नल  for this purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic tract and are  नहीं   प्रभावित   by   ऑप्टिक  nerve  क्षति   परे  where the retinohypothalamic tract exits .
अर्ल  Simmons ( born December 18 ,  1970  )  ,   बेहतर   ज्ञात  by his stage  names   dmx   और  Dark Man X , is an American  rapper  and actor .
In  1999  ,  dmx   released   उसके   best-selling  album ...  और   तब  There  थी   x  , which featured the  hit  single `` Party  up   (  Up  in  Here ) `` .
he  has acted in films such as Belly  ,  Romeo Must Die  ,  Exit  wounds  , Cradle 2 The  संगीन   ,  and  पिछला  Hour  .
In 2006 ,  he  starred in the  वास्तविकता  television  श्रेणी  , which was primarily aired on the BET cable television  संजाल  .
In 2003 , DMX  प्रकाशित   a  book  of   उसके  memoirs entitled , E.A.R.L . : The Autobiography of DMX  .
DMX  released  a mixtape The Weigh In as a prelude/promotion towards his album Undisputed (  2012  )  .
DMX has sold  over   30  million records worldwide , making him one of  the  best-selling hip-hop artists of all time .
Professional certification , trade  प्रमाणन  , or professional designation , often  पुकारा  simply certification or qualification ,  is   a  designation earned by a person to  assure   योग्यता  to perform  a   जॉब  or task .
Not  सब  certifications  कि   उपयोग  post-nominal  अक्षर  are an acknowledgement of educational  उपलब्धि  , or an agency appointed  to   safeguard   the   पब्लिक  interest .
Bugs  बनी   is  a funny  एनिमल  cartoon character , best  remembered   लिये  his  अभिनीत   भूमिकाएँ  in  the  Looney  धुनें  and  merrie  Melodies series of theatrical short films produced  by  Warner Bros.  दौरान   the   सुनहरी  age of American animation  .
His  लोकप्रियता  during this era led to  उसके  becoming a corporate mascot of Warner Bros.  entertainment  .
Bugs is an anthropomorphic  धूसर  hare or rabbit who is  प्रसिद्ध  for his flippant  ,  personality  ,  a  सुनाया   नई   यॉर्क  accent  ,   उसके  portrayal as a  छलिया  , and  उसके  catch phrase `` Eh ...
What 's up , doc ?  ''
( usually  कहा   जबकि   चबाने  a carrot ) .
बग  has appeared  in  more films  than  any  अन्य  cartoon  अक्षर   और  is the ninth most portrayed film personality in  the  world  .
According  to  his 1990 `` biography '' Bugs  बनी   :  50 Years and Only One  धूसर  Hare  ,   बग  was  born  on July  27   ,   1940   in   ब्रुकलीन  ,  नई  York in a warren under Ebbets Field , home  of  the Brooklyn  डॉजर्स  .
In reality ,  he  was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon  schlesinger   प्रोडक्शन्स   (   बाद  Warner  भाईs.  Cartoons ) :  सहित  Tex Avery , who directed  बग  ' early definitive  छोटी   a  Wild Hare  (   1940  ) ; Robert  mckimson  , who created Bugs  '  definitive character  डिज़ाइन  ;  और   mel   blanc  , who originated  the  voice of Bugs .
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae  or  mucosas  ;   एकवचन  mucosa ) are  linings   of   ज़्यादातर  endodermal  उत्पत्ति  , covered  in  epithelium  ,  which are  शामिल  in absorption  और  secretion .
वे  line cavities that are exposed to  the   बाह्य  environment and internal organs .
वे  are  at  several places contiguous with skin : at  the  nostrils  ,  the lips of  the   मुँह  , the  eyelids  , the ears , the genital area , and the  गुदा  .
the  sticky , thick fluid secreted  by  the mucous  झिल्लियों   और  glands  is  termed  mucus  .
the   पद  mucous membrane refers  to  where they  हैं  found in  the   देह   और  not every mucous membrane secretes mucus .
The glans  clitoridis   ,  glans penis ( head of the penis ) , along with the inside of the foreskin and the  clitoral  hood , are mucous membranes .
The urethra is  भी  a  श्लेष्मक  membrane .
The secreted  mucus  traps the pathogens in  the  body ,  preventing  any further  क्रियाएँ  of diseases .
a  master  सार्जेंट  is the military rank for a senior  non-commissioned  officer in some armed forces .
Cake is a  रूप  of bread or  bread-like   खाना   .
in  its modern forms , it is  typically   a  sweet baked dessert  .
In  इसके  oldest  फ़ॉर्म   ,  cakes were normally fried breads  or  cheesecakes , and normally  था  a disk shape .
Determining whether a given food  चाहिए  be classified as bread ,  केक  , or  पेस्ट्री  can be difficult .
Modern cake  ,   विशेषकर  layer cakes ,  सामान्यतः  contain  a  combination  of   आटा  , sugar  ,  eggs ,  और   मक्खन   or  oil ,  साथ   कुछ  varieties also  requiring   द्रव  (  typically  milk  or  water  )  and  leavening  agents (  ऐसे   as  yeast or baking  चूर्ण  )  .
flavorful  ingredients like  फल   purées  , nuts  ,  dried  or   candied  fruit  ,   or   extracts   हैं  often  added  , and numerous substitutions for  the  primary  संघटक  are possible  .
cakes  are  प्रायः  filled with fruit preserves or  मिठाई   sauces  ( like pastry cream )  ,  iced with buttercream  or   अन्य   icings   ,  and decorated with marzipan  ,   piped  borders or  candied   फल   .
Cake is often the  मिठाई  of choice for  meals  at ceremonial occasions ,  विशेषकर  weddings , anniversaries ,  और   जन्मदिन   .
वहीँ   हैं  countless cake recipes ; some  हैं  bread-like , some rich and elaborate  ,   और  many are centuries old .
Cake  बनाना  is no  longer  a complicated procedure  ;  while  at   एक  time  considerable   मजदूर  went into cake making ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ) , baking equipment and  दिशानिर्देश   have  been  सरलीकृत  so that even  the   सबसे  amateur cook may  बेक   a  cake .
Tamara  faye  LaValley Bakker Messner  (  March 7 ,  1942  – July 20 , 2007 ) was an American Christian singer  ,  evangelist  ,  entrepreneur , author , talk  दिखाएँ  host  ,   और  television personality .
She was married from  1961  to  1992   to  televangelist , and  बाद  convicted  felon  , Jim Bakker .
वो  co-hosted  साथ  him on The PTL  क्लबों   (  1976–1987 ) .
वो  was a participant in the 2004 season  of  the  वास्तविकता  show The  surreal  Life  .
cambria  is a village in Columbia  काउंटी   ,   विस्कॉन्सिन  , United States .
The population  थी  767 at  the  2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
It  is  part  of  the  मैडिसन   महानगर  Statistical Area  .
Public  नीति  is the  principled  guide to  कार्रवाई   लिया  by the  प्रशासनिक   कार्यपालिका  branches of the state with regard to  a  class  of  issues  in  a manner consistent  साथ  law  और  institutional customs .
In general , the foundation is the pertinent national  और  substantial constitutional  विधि  and implementing legislation such as the US Federal  कोड   .
Further substrates  शामिल  both  न्यायिक  interpretations and  regulations  which are generally authorized by legislation .
Other  विद्वानों   define  it as a system of  ``  courses of action , regulatory measures , laws  ,  and  funding   प्राथमिकताएं  concerning a  दिए  topic  promulgated  by a  सरकारी  entity  or  its  प्रतिनिधि  .  ''
Public  नीति  is commonly embodied ``  in  constitutions , legislative acts  ,   और   न्यायिक   निर्णय   .  ''
In the United States ,  इस  concept refers not only  to  the result of policies , but more broadly  to  the decision-making and analysis  of  governmental decisions .
As an academic  अनुशासन  ,  पब्लिक  policy is studied  by  professors  और  students at public  नीति  schools  of  major universities throughout the country .
The U.S. professional  संघ   of  public policy  practitioners  , researchers , scholars , and  विद्यार्थी  is  the  Association  लिये   पब्लिक   नीति   विश्लेषण  and Management .
पाचन   is  the  mechanical  and chemical  विश्लेषण  of food into  छोटी  components  कि  are more easily absorbed  into   a  blood stream ,  लिये  instance .
Digestion is a form of catabolism  :   a   विश्लेषण  of large food  अणुओं  to  छोटी   ones  .
When food enters the  मुँह  , digestion  of   the  food  starts   by  the action  of  mastication , a  रूप  of mechanical digestion  ,  and the wetting  सम्पर्क   of  saliva .
Saliva , a  द्रव   स्रावित  by  the  salivary glands , contains salivary amylase ,  an  enzyme  जिससे   starts  the  पाचन  of starch in the food  .
After undergoing mastication and starch digestion , the food will be  in  the  रूप  of a small , round slurry mass called a bolus .
It  होगा   तब  travel down the  ग्रासनाल  and  into   the  stomach by the action of peristalsis .
Gastric juice in the stomach starts  प्रोटीन  digestion .
gastric  juice  मुख्यतः  contains hydrochloric acid and pepsin  .
as  these two chemicals  may   क्षति  the  पेट   वॉल  , mucus is secreted by  the  stomach ,  providing  a slimy  परत  that acts as a shield  विरूद्ध   the  damaging  प्रभाव  of the chemicals .
at  the same time protein  पाचन  is  occurring  , mechanical mixing occurs by  peristalsis  , which are waves of muscular contractions that move  साथ  the stomach  वॉल   .
इस   allows  the mass of food to  further  mix with the digestive enzymes .
After some  समय  ( typically an hour or two  in  humans  ,  4–6  घंटों   in  dogs  ,   somewhat  shorter duration in house cats ) , the resulting thick liquid is  पुकारा   chyme   .
When the  pyloric  sphincter valve  opens   ,  chyme enters the duodenum where it  mixes  with digestive  एंजाइमों  from  the  pancreas  ,   और  then passes through the small intestine ,  in  which digestion continues .
When  the   chyme   is  fully  पचता   ,   it  is absorbed  into  the blood  .
95 % of  अवशोषण  of nutrients occurs in  the  small intestine .
जल  and minerals are reabsorbed back into  the   रक्त   in   the  colon (  विशाल  intestine ) where the pH  is  slightly acidic  परिचय  5.6 ~ 6.9 .
Some vitamins ,  ऐसे  as  biotin  and vitamin K (  k2mk7  )  उत्पादित  by bacteria in the  कोलन  are also absorbed into the blood  in   the  colon .
बर्बाद  material is  eliminated  from the  मलाशय  during defecation  .
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491  –  28 January 1547  )  was  किंग   of  England  इससे   21   अप्रैल  1509 until his death .
he  was lord , and  बाद  king  ,  of  आयरलैंड  , as well as  continuing  the nominal claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of  फ़्रांस   .
Henry  थी  the second monarch of the Tudor dynasty ,  succeeding  his  पिता  , Henry VII .
Besides his six marriages  ,  Henry VIII is known for  उसके  role in  the  separation of the  गिरिजाघर   of  England from  the  Roman  कैथोलिक  Church .
हेनरी   's   struggles  with Rome led  to  the separation of  the   गिरिजाघर  of England  इससे   papal   प्राधिकार   ,   the  Dissolution of  the  Monasteries ,  और  his own  स्थापना   as  the  परम्   सिर  of the  गिरिजाघर  of  इंग्लैण्ड  .
yet  he remained  a  believer in core Catholic  theological  teachings  ,   भी  after his  excommunication  from the  रोमन   कैथोलिक   गिरिजाघर  .
Henry oversaw the  विधिक  union of  इंग्लैण्ड   और  Wales with the Laws  in  Wales Acts  1535  and 1542 .
In 1513 ,  the   नई  king allied  साथ  the  पावन   रोमन  Emperor , Maximillian  i   ,  and  invaded   फ़्रांस   in  1513  साथ  a  विशाल  ,  well-equipped  army , but achieved  छोटी  at  a  considerable financial cost .
maximillian  , for  उसके  part ,  प्रयुक्त  the English invasion to his own ends ,  और  this prejudiced England 's  क्षमता  to defeat the  फ्रेंच  .
This foray  होता   prove  the  प्रारंभ  of an obsession for  हेनरी  ,  जो  invaded again in 1544 .
This  समय  ,  हेनरी  's forces captured the important city of Boulogne  ,  but  again  the Holy  रोमन  Emperor , Charles  v  ,  समर्थित   हेनरी  only as long as he  needed   to  and  इंग्लैण्ड  , strained by the enormous cost  of   the  war  ,  ransomed the city  वापस   लिये  peace .
His  contemporaries  considered Henry  in  his prime  to  be an attractive  ,  educated and accomplished king ,  और   he  has been described  as   ``  one of the most charismatic  शासकों  to sit  on  the English  सिंहासन   ''   .
besides  ruling with absolute power ,  he  also  सगाई  himself as an  लेखक  and  composer   .
His desire to  provide   इंग्लैण्ड  with a male heir – which  stemmed   partly   इससे  personal vanity  और  partly because he believed  a  daughter would be  असमर्थ  to  consolidate   the  Tudor dynasty  और   the  fragile peace that  existed   following  the Wars of the  गुलाब  –  led  to  the  two things for  जिससे   हेनरी  is most remembered  :  his  छह  marriages  और  the English  reformation  .
Henry  became   रुग्ण  obese and his health suffered , contributing to  उसके   मौत  in 1547 .
He is frequently  characterised  in  उसके  later life as a lustful , egotistical , harsh ,  और  insecure king .
Bongos ( Spanish  :  bongó ) are  an   afro-cuban  percussion instrument .
the   ड्रम  are of  अलग  size : the  larger  drum  is  called in Spanish the  hembra  (  मादा  ) and  the  smaller the macho (  पुरूष  ) .
They are membranophones , or instruments that  बनाएँ  sound  by  a vibration of a  stretched  membrane  .
Different religious groups  शामिल  different  किताबे  in their  biblical  canons , in varying orders  ,  and sometimes  divide  or combine books  ,   or  incorporate  अतिरिक्त   सामग्री  into canonical books .
ईसाई  Bibles  दायरा   इससे  the  sixty-six   किताबे   of   the  Protestant  canon  to  the  eighty-one books of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo  गिरिजाघर  canon .
The Hebrew Bible  ,  or Tanakh , contains  twenty-four  books  विभाजित  into three parts  ;  the five books of  the  Torah ( ``  शिक्षण   ''   or  `` law ''  )   ,   the  Nevi'im ( `` prophets  ''  ) , and the Ketuvim (  ``  writings  ''  ) .
the  first part of Christian Bibles  is  the Old Testament  ,   जिससे  contains  ,  at minimum , the twenty-four books  of  the Hebrew Bible  विभाजित  into  thirty-nine  books and ordered  differently  from the Hebrew  बाइबल  .
The Catholic Church  और  Eastern Christian churches also hold certain deuterocanonical books and passages to be part of the Old Testament canon .
the  second part is the New  वसीयत  , containing  twenty-seven   किताबे  ; the  चार  Canonical gospels  ,  Acts  of  the Apostles , twenty-one Epistles or letters and  the  Book of Revelation .
the  Eastern Orthodox , Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches may have minor differences in their lists of  स्वीकृत   किताबे  .
the  list given  यहाँ  for  ये   चर्च  is the most inclusive  :  if at  तनिक  one Eastern  गिरिजाघर   स्वीकृत  the  किताब   it  is  शामिल  here .
the   नेशनल  flag  of  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  of America  ,  often  बस  referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal  आड़ा  stripes of red ( top  और  bottom  )  alternating  साथ  white , with a blue  आयताकार  in the canton (  referred  to  specifically  as the ``  संघ  '' )  bearing  fifty small , white , five-pointed  सितारों  arranged in  नौ  offset  आड़ा  rows  of   छह   सितारों  ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of  पाँच  stars  .
The  50  stars  on  the flag represent the 50 states of the  संयुक्त  States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen  अंग्रेजों  colonies  कि   घोषित  independence from the Kingdom  of  Great Britain and became the first states in the  संघ  .
Nicknames for the flag  शामिल  the  ``   सितारों  and Stripes '' ,  ``   बूढ़ा  Glory `` ,  और   ``   the   star-spangled  Banner . ''
dred  Scott v.  sandford  ,  ,   भी   ज्ञात  as the  dred  Scott Decision , was a landmark decision by  the  U.S.  परम्  Court .
It made two  प्रमुख  rulings .
The  पहला  ruling was  कि  African-Americans were not citizens  ,   और   इसलिए   था  no standing to sue in  संघीय  court .
The  दूसरी  ruling was that the federal government  था  no power  to  regulate slavery in any  territory   acquired  subsequent to the creation  of   the  United States .
Given the  पहला  ruling , most  विद्वानों  and many  समकालीन  political figures (  सहित  the leadership of the then-new  रिपब्लिकन  Party ) considered that the second  सत्ताधारी  was not  बाइंडिंग   यही   ,  but mere dictum .
the   युक्तिसंगत  of the  परम्  Court regarding  the  jurisdictional ruling implied that  लोगों  of  अफ़्रीकी  descent (  दोनो   स्लेव  and free ) were  नहीं  protected by the  संविधान  and were  नहीं  U.S. citizens .
Since passage  of   the   14th   amendment  to  the  U.S.  संविधान  ,  दोनो  rulings  हैं   superseded  and no longer valid precedent .
Nonetheless , the case  retains  historical significance as it is widely regarded  as  the  worst  decision ever made  by   the  Supreme  अदालत  .
The  राय  of the court , written  by  Chief  इंसाफ  Roger  B.   taney  ,  stirred   बहस   .
The decision was  7–2  ,  और   प्रत्येक  Justice besides Taney wrote a  पृथक   concurrence  or dissent .
For  the  first time since Marbury v. Madison  ,  the  अदालत  held an Act of  कॉंग्रेस  to  be  unconstitutional  .
Dred Scott ,  an  African-American slave , had asked  a  United States Circuit Court to award him his freedom because  he   और  his master had resided in a state  (  Illinois ) and  a   territory   (  Wisconsin  territory  ) where  गुलामी  had been banned .
Chief Justice  रोजर  Taney ,  लिखने  for the court ,  आयोजित   कि  Scott  ,  as a  व्यक्ति  of African ancestry  ,  was  नहीं   a  citizen of  the  United States and therefore had no  सही  to  मुकदमा   in  federal  अदालत   .
इस  holding was contrary to the practice of numerous  राज्य   at   the   समय  , particularly Free  राज्य  , where free blacks did in  फैक्ट  enjoy the rights of citizens  ,  such as  the  right to  vote   और  hold  पब्लिक  office  .
In  कया  is sometimes  माना  mere obiter dictum , the Court went on to hold that Congress had no  प्राधिकार   to  prohibit slavery in federal territories because  स्लेव  are personal property and the Fifth Amendment  to  the Constitution protects property  स्वामी   विरूद्ध  deprivation  of  their property  बगैर  due  प्रक्रम  of law .
in  reaching this decision ,  taney  had  hoped   to  settle the growing  विवाद  surrounding slavery in  the  United  राज्य   ,  but it had the opposite effect  .
The  निर्णय  was fiercely debated across  the  country , as perhaps best  सरंचनाओं  by  the  Lincoln–Douglas debates of 1858 .
Abraham Lincoln ,  the  second-ever Republican nominee for  अध्यक्ष  , was  समर्थ  to win the  अध्यक्षीय  election in 1860 ; the stopping of the further expansion  of   गुलामी  was a key Republican party plank .
the   निर्णय  played an  महत्वपूर्ण   भूमिका  in the  समय  of  राज्य   secession  and the Civil  युद्ध  , although  it  is extreme to  कह   the   निर्णय  `` caused '' the  युद्ध  .
The decision is  acknowledged  for the  influential   भूमिका  it played in altering the national political  लैंडस्केप  :  it   is  credited with launching Abraham  lincoln’s  national political career  और  ultimately allowing for his election  .
Although the Supreme  अदालत  has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case , the Court stated in the Slaughter-House Cases  कि  at  तनिक  one part  of  it had  already  been overruled  by  the Fourteenth  amendment   in   1868   ,  which  begins   by  stating , `` All persons born or  देशीयकृत  in the United States , and subject  to  the jurisdiction thereof ,  हैं  citizens  of   the   संयुक्त   राज्य   और   of  the State wherein they reside . ''
To which the Court noted:
The first observation  we  have to make on  इस  clause  is   ,  that it puts at  बाकी  both  the  questions  जिससे  we stated to  have  been the  विषय  of differences of  राय  .
It declares that persons may  be  citizens of the United States without regard  to   उनके  citizenship of a particular State , and it overturns the Dred Scott decision by making  सब  persons  born  within  the  United States and  विषय   to  its jurisdiction  नागरिकों  of  the  United States .
वहीँ  are dozens of neighborhoods in Columbus  ,  Ohio .
Some are  मुश्किल  to define  ,  as  वे  encompass  विशाल   क्षेत्रों   विकसित   at   अलग   times—often  with  sub-neighborhoods  within  उन्हें  .
सीमायें   can  also change based  on   लोकप्रिय  understanding of  the  area , as  खूब  as  the  whims of the  निवासियों  .
This article uses  आंकड़ा  from  the  Datasourcecolumbus Web  साईट   ,  Spotcrime.com , HelloColumbus.com  ,  as well as the various  कोलंबस  Area Commissions  to  define the various areas .
excerpts  and  किनारा  information are drawn directly from the main articles  .
A biologist  is  a scientist who  अध्ययन  living organisms  और   उनके  relationship to  उनके  environment  .
Biologists  शामिल  in basic research  attempt  to  discover  underlying mechanisms that govern how  जीवों   कार्य  .
Biologists  शामिल  in  लागू  research  attempt  to  develop  or improve medical , industrial  or  agricultural  प्रक्रियाओं   .
Martinus Willem Beijerinck , a botanist and microbiologist
आधार  jumping  इससे   a  cliff  in   a  wingsuit .
BASE jumping , also sometimes written  as  B.A.S.E . jumping ,  is  an activity where  भागीदार   जम्प  from fixed objects and use  a   पैराशूट  to break  उनके  fall  .
`` BASE ''  is  an  एक्रोनिम   कि  stands for four categories of fixed  वस्तुएँ   इससे  which one  can   जम्प   :  buildings , antennas ,  spans  ( bridges ) ,  और  earth (  cliffs  )  .
the  British Shorthair is a domesticated  बिल्ली  whose  सुविधाएँ   मेक  it a popular  नस्ल  in  बिल्ली  shows .
It has  महरूम   the   सबसे  popular breed  of   बिल्ली   पंजीकृत   by   the  UK  's  Governing Council of  the   बिल्ली   फैंसी  (  gccf  ) since 2001  ,  when  it  overtook the  पारसी  breed .
the  USA Basketball  मेन  's  वरिष्ठ  National Team , commonly known as the  संयुक्त   राज्य  men  's  national  बास्केट  team  ,  represents the  संयुक्त  States of America  in  international  मेन  's basketball .
The  यूएसए   is  the  सबसे   कामयाब   टोली  in international competition , winning medals  in  all  सत्रह  Olympic tournaments it has  डाला   ,  coming  दूर  with fourteen golds .
दो  of  इसके  gold  medal-winning  squads were inducted to  the  Naismith Memorial  बास्केट  Hall  of  Fame  as  teams  in  August 2010—the 1960 team , which  प्रदर्शित  six Hall of  famers   (   4  players , 2 coaches )  ,  and  the  1992 `` Dream  टोली  '' , featuring 14 Hall of  famers  ( 11 players , 3 coaches ) .
The United States  is   फिलहाल  ranked  पहला  in the FIBA World  rankings  .
Traditionally composed of amateur players ,  a   1989  rule  बदलें   by  FIBA  अनुमत  USA Basketball to  फ़ील्ड  teams with professional players  .
The  पहला  such  टोली  ,  ज्ञात  as the `` Dream Team '' , won  the  gold  पदक  at  the  1992  गर्मियाँ   ओलंपिक   in  Barcelona  ,  Spain  ,  playing in the  फाइनल  against  क्रोएशिया  .
With the introduction  of  professionals ,  the  team  थी  able to  चिंगारी  a second run of dominance after capturing only a bronze medal in 1988  .
A team  of  professional players competed  at   the  1994 FIBA World Championship ,  finishing   पहला   .
In 1996 , 2000 , 2008  ,  and  2012  the  यूएसए  again captured  सुनहरा  medals .
Facing  increased  competition ,  the  USA failed to win  a  medal at the 2002 FIBA  संसार  Championship , finishing sixth  .
the  2004 Summer Olympic  टोली   खोया  three games on its way to a  कांस्य   पदक  , a record that represented more  नुकसान   in   a  single year  than  the country  's  Olympic teams  था  suffered  in   सब  previous Olympiads combined  .
संकल्पित  to put an  समाप्त  to  ये  failures ,  यूएसए   बास्केट   initiated  a long-term project  aimed   at  creating better , more cohesive teams .
the  USA won its first  सात  games at the 2006 FIBA World Championship in  जापानी  before losing against Greece in the  semi-finals  ,  समाप्ति  the competition with the bronze medal  .
The  यूएसए  won  सुनहरा   दो  years later  ,  though ,  at   the   2008   गर्मियाँ   ओलंपिक  with  a  dominant performance  .
This  कामयाबी  was followed up at  the  2010 FIBA World Championship ,  जहाँ   despite   क्षेत्ररक्षण  a roster featuring  no  players from  the  2008 Olympic  टोली  , the  यूएसए  did not lose  a  single game en route to  defeating  host Turkey  लिये   the  gold medal .
The USA  जारी   इस  streak of dominance by going undefeated  और  capturing  सुनहरा  once more at the 2012  गर्मियाँ  Olympics  .
The  स्टीलर्स  Super Bowl XL ring
Joe Theismann 's Super Bowl  रिंग   (  right )
The  सुपर   कटोरी  ring is an award in the  नेशनल  Football League given to the winners of the league 's annual World Championship game , the Super Bowl .
Since  तभी  one  विंस  Lombardi  ट्रॉफी  is awarded to  the   टोली  (  स्वामित्व  ) itself , the Super Bowl ring offers a collectible  memento   लिये  the  वास्तविक  players and team members to keep  लिये   themselves  to  symbolize  the  विजय  .
चित्र  showing the  छह   सबसे   आम  speleothems  साथ   लेबल्स  .
to  दृश्य   लेबल्स  .
The Witch  's  Finger in  the   carlsbad   caverns
a  stalagmite ( or ;  इससे  the Greek σταλαγμίτης  -  stalagmitês  ,  from σταλαγμίας  -   stalagmias  , `` dropping  ,  trickling  ''   )   is  a type  of   speleothem  that rises from  the  floor  of  a  चूना   गुफा  due to the  टपकता  of  mineralized   समाधान   और  the deposition  of  calcium  कार्बोनेट   .
This  stalagmite  formation occurs only  अंतर्गत   निश्चित  pH  शर्तें  within  the   भूमिगत   cavern  .
The  सम्बन्धित  formation on the ceiling  of   a  cave is  ज्ञात  as a  stalactite  .
If  ये  formations grow together , the  परिणाम  is known as a  कालम   .
the   हॉल   of  Giants  in   the  Carlsbad Caverns
Stalagmites  चाहिए  normally not be touched ,  चूंकि   the   चट्टान   buildup   is  formed by minerals precipitating out of the  जल  solution onto  the  old  सतह   ;  skin  oils  can alter  the   सतह  where the  खनिज   जल  will cling , thus  affecting   the   विकास  of the  गठन  .
oils  and dirt from human  सम्पर्क   can   भी   दाग   the   गठन  and change its  रंग  permanently .
समान  structures can  भी  form  in   लावा  tubes ,  संबद्ध  with some types  of   lavacicles  ,  हालांकि  the mechanism of formation  is  very  अलग  .
stalactites  and  stalagmites   can  also form on concrete  ceilings   और  floors , although they form much more  rapidly  there than in the natural cave  पर्यावरण   .
the   largest   stalagmite   in   the  world is high  और  is located  in   the  cave of  cueva  Martin Infierno , Cuba .
in  the Zagros Mountains of south  इरान  , approximately from  the   प्राचीन  city of Bishapur  ,   in  the Shapur cave on the  चौथी  of five terraces stands the  3rd  century  ce  statue of Shapur I ,  दूसरी  ruler of  the  Sassanid Empire .
the  statue , carved from one stalagmite ,  is  nearly high .
How I Met Your Mother is  an  American  sitcom  that premiered on CBS  on   सितंबर  19 ,  2005   .
The show was created by Craig Thomas and Carter  bays   .
How I Met Your  माँ  is framed by  the  year 2030  ,  when  टेड   mosby   (   voiced  by Bob Saget ) gathers his daughter  (  Lyndsy  fonseca  ) and son (  दाउद  Henrie  )  to tell them  the  story of how he met their mother .
We flashback  to  where it  begins  in 2005 with Ted Mosby ( Josh Radnor ) as a single , 27-year-old architect living with  उसके  two best friends  इससे  Wesleyan  विश्वविद्यालयों   ,  Marshall Eriksen  (  Jason Segel ) ,  a  law  छात्र  , and  लिली  Aldrin ( Alyson Hannigan ) , a  किंडरगार्टन  teacher ,  जो  have been  डेटिंग  for almost  नौ  years when Marshall proposes .
उनके   सगाई  causes Ted  to  think  परिचय   ढूंढना  his own soul  mate  ,  much  to the disgust of  उसके   dost  Barney Stinson  (  Neil Patrick Harris )  ,  a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job .
And  यूँ  , Ted begins his  ढूंढें   लिये   उसके   पूर्ण  mate , and  meets  Robin Scherbatsky ( Cobie Smulders )  ,  whom he also befriends .
The 100th episode of How I Met  अपना   माँ  aired  on  January  11   ,  2010 .
on  December 21 , 2012 , the series was renewed for a  नवीं  season .
On January 30 , 2013  ,  it was announced that Season 9 will be its final season .
Gringo ( , ,  )  is  a  slang Spanish and  पुर्तगाली  word used  in  Ibero-America , to denote foreigners , often from the United States .
the  term can be applied  to   किसी  who  is   दरअसल  a  foreigner   ,   or  it can denote a strong association or assimilation  into  foreign ( particularly US ) society  और  culture  .
In Spanish it does  नहीं   have   a  negative  connotation  .
Roger Axtell ,  a  travel etiquette  विशेषज्ञ  , notes that `` [ t ]  he  word gringo is not necessarily a bad  शब्द  .
it  is slang but is derogatory only in its use and context .  ''
The word was  प्रयुक्त  in  स्पेन  long before it crossed the  अटलांटिक   to  denote foreign , non-native speakers  of   स्पेनी  .
The great white  शार्क  ,  carcharodon  carcharias , also known  as   the  great white  ,   श्वेत  pointer , white shark  ,  or white death , is  a  species of large lamniform shark which can be  मिला   in  the coastal  सतह  waters  of  all the major oceans .
The great white  शार्क  is mainly known for  इसके   आकार  , with the  largest  individuals known to have  approached  or exceeded in  लंबाई  , and  in  weight .
This  शार्क   पहुँच   इसके  maturity around 15 years  of  age and can have a life span of over 30 years .
the  great white shark is  arguably   the  world 's  largest  known extant  macropredatory  fish , and  is  one of the  प्राथमिक  predators  of   समुद्री  mammals .
it  is also  ज्ञात   to  prey upon a variety of other marine  पशु  , including  मछली  and seabirds  .
it  is the only known surviving  प्रजाति  of its genus  carcharodon   ,  and is ranked first  in   having  the  सबसे   हमले   on  humans .
The  आईयूसीएन  list  the  great white shark  as  a vulnerable species , while it is included in Appendix II of  cites  .
The bestselling novel  जबड़े  by Peter Benchley  और  the subsequent  ब्लॉकबस्टर  film by Steven  स्पिलबर्ग  depicted the great white  शार्क  as a `` ferocious man  भक्षक  ``  .
in  reality ,  इंसानो  are not  the   पसन्दीदा  prey of the great white shark  .
The United  राज्य  Armed Forces are the military forces of  the  United States  of   अमेरिका  .
They  consist  of the Army  ,   नेवी   ,   समुद्री  Corps ,  एयर   फ़ोर्स   ,  and Coast Guard .
The  u.S.  has  a   दमदार   परंपरा  of  civilian  control  of   the  military  .
The  अध्यक्ष   is   the  military 's  overall  head , and helps  रूप  military policy with the  u.S.  Department  of  Defense  (   dod   )  , a  संघीय   कार्यपालिका  department , acting  as  the principal organ by  जिससे  military  नीति  is carried out  .
The  dod  is headed  by  the  सचिव  of Defense  ,   जो  is a civilian and Cabinet member .
The  रक्षा  Secretary is second in  the  military 's  कड़ी  of  कमांड   ,  just below  the  President  ,  and  serves  as the  प्रिंसिपल  assistant to the  अध्यक्ष  in  सब  DoD-related matters .
To coordinate military action  साथ  diplomacy , the  अध्यक्ष   रै  an advisory National Security Council  headed  by a  नेशनल  Security Advisor  .
Both the President and Secretary  of   रक्षा  are advised by  a  seven-member Joint Chiefs  of   स्टाफ  , which includes the head of each of the Defense Department 's service branches  as  well as  the  chief of  the  National Guard Bureau  .
नेतृत्व  is provided by  the  Chairman  of   the  Joint Chiefs of Staff and  the   वाइस  Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .
The Commandant of the Coast Guard is not  a  member of the  संयुक्त  Chiefs of  स्टाफ  .
All of the branches  कार्य  together during  परिचालन  and joint missions  ,   अंतर्गत   the  Unified  combatant  Commands , under the authority of the  सचिव   of  Defense with the exception of the  coast   गार्ड   .
The Coast Guard  जलप्रपात  under  the  administration of the Department  of  Homeland  सुरक्षा  and  receives  its  operational   आदेश  from  the  Secretary  of  Homeland Security  .
The Coast Guard may  be  transferred to  the  Department  of  the Navy by the President or Congress during a  समय  of war .
All five armed services are among the seven uniformed  सेवाएं  of  the   संयुक्त  States  ;   the   अन्य  are the U.S.  पब्लिक   स्वास्थ्य  Service Commissioned Corps and the National  oceanic  and Atmospheric Administration  commissioned  Corps .
From the  समय   of   इसके  inception , the military  निभाई   a   निर्णायक   भूमिका  in the history  of  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
A  भाव   of   नेशनल   एकता   और  identity  थी  forged  as   a  result  of   विजय  in the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary War .
भी   so   ,  the  संस्थापकों  were  संदिग्ध  of a permanent military  फ़ोर्स   और  not until  the  outbreak of World War  ii  did  a   विशाल  standing  फौज  become officially established  .
The  नेशनल  Security Act of 1947  ,  adopted following World  युद्ध  II and during the Cold  युद्ध  's onset , created the modern U.S.  सैन्य  framework ; the Act  मिलाया  previously Cabinet-level  विभाग   of  War  और  the  विभाग  of  the  Navy into the  नेशनल  Military Establishment ( renamed the Department  of   रक्षा  in 1949 ) , headed  by  the Secretary of Defense ; and created the Department of the  एयर  Force  और  National  सुरक्षा   परिषद   .
the   u.S.  military is one of  the  largest  militaries  in  शर्तें  of number of personnel .
it  draws its  जनशक्ति   इससे  a large  पूल  of paid  स्वयंसेवक   ;  although  conscription  has been used in the  पास्ट  in various times  of   दोनो  war and  सलाम   ,  it  रै  not been used  चूंकि   1972  .
As of 2013 , the U.S. spends about $ 554.2 billion annually to  निधि  its military  शक्तियां   ,   और   appropriates  approximately $ 88.5 billion to fund Overseas Contingency Operations .
Put  साथ  , the U.S.  constitutes  roughly 43 percent of  the  world 's military  expenditures  .
The U.S.  हथियारबंद   शक्तियां   as   a   पूरे  possess  विशाल  quantities  of  advanced and powerful equipment  ,  along with widespread placement of forces  around  the world  ,  giving them  significant  capabilities in  दोनो   रक्षा   और   शक्ति   प्रक्षेप   .
Freedom of speech  is   the   राजनैतिक  right to communicate one 's opinions and ideas using one  's   देह  and  प्रॉपर्टी  to anyone who is willing  to  receive them  .
The term  स्वतंत्रता   of  expression is sometimes  प्रयुक्त  synonymously , but includes  कोई  act  of   seeking  ,  receiving  and imparting information or ideas  ,   regardless   of   the  medium  प्रयुक्त  .
In practice ,  the  right to freedom of  वाक  is not  निरपेक्ष   in  any country and the  सही  is commonly subject to limitations  ,   as  with  मानहानि  , slander , obscenity ,  राजद्रोह   (   सहित  , for  उदाहरण  inciting ethnic hatred ) , copyright violation  ,   रहस्योद्घाटन   of  information  कि  is classified  or  otherwise  .
The right  to  freedom of expression is recognized as  a  human  सही  under Article 19  of  the  सार्वभौमिक   घोषणा   of  Human  अधिकारों  and  पहचाना  in international human rights law in  the  International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights  (  ICCPR  )   .
Article 19 of  the   iccpr  states  कि   ``  [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and  ``  everyone shall  have  the  सही   to   स्वतंत्रता  of expression  ;  this right  shall  include freedom to seek , receive and impart information  और   विचार  of all  kinds  ,  regardless  of  frontiers  , either orally ,  in   लिखने   or  in print , in  the  form of art , or  through   कोई  other  मीडिया  of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes on  to  say  कि  the exercise of  ये  rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities  ``   और   may  `` therefore be subject to certain  प्रतिबंध  '' when  जरुरी  `` [  f   ]  or respect of the  अधिकारों   or  reputation  of  others '' or `` [ f  ]  or the protection of national security or  of  public order ( order  पब्लिक  ) , or  of   पब्लिक  health  or  morals '' .
स्वतंत्रता  of  वाक  may be  legally   curtailed  in some religious legal  प्रणालियों  and  in  secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious  ठोकर  , such  as  the  अंग्रेजों   जातिगत  and  धार्मिक   द्वेष  Act  2006   .
the  Big Bang Theory  लोगो  .
the  Big  बंग  Theory is  an   अमरीकी  comedy television series  निर्मित  and executive produced by Chuck  lorre  and Bill Prady .
Like the name  of  the series itself  ,   साथ   the  exception  of  the first episode—  ''   पायलट  ''  —episode  titles of  the   बिग  Bang Theory always  प्रारंभ  with  ``   the   ''   और  resemble the name of a  वैज्ञानिक   principle  , theory or  प्रयोग   ,  whimsically referencing  a  plot  पाइंट   or  quirk .
,  133   एपीसोड  have aired .
The Big Bang  सिद्धान्त  has been  नवीनीकृत  for a seventh season .
Dwight David `` Ike ''  आइज़नहावर   (   सुनाया  , ; October 14 , 1890  –  March 28 ,  1969  ) was  the  34th President of the United States from 1953 until 1961 .
He had previously been a five-star  सामान्य  in  the  United States Army during World  युद्ध   ii  and served as Supreme Commander of the  अलाइड   शक्तियां   in  Europe ; he had responsibility  लिये  planning and supervising the  आक्रमण  of North Africa in Operation Torch in 1942–43 and the  कामयाब  invasion of France and Germany  in  1944–45 from the  पश्चिमी   सामने  .
in  1951 , he became the first  परम्   कमांडर   of   नाटो   .
Eisenhower was of Pennsylvania  डच  ancestry and was reared in a large family in  कान्सास  by  अभिभावक  with a  मजबूत   कार्य  ethic and religious background .
As  एक  of  छह  sons ,  he   थी   conditioned  by a competitive atmosphere  जिससे  instilled self-reliance .
He attended and  ग्रैजुएट   इससे  West  पाइंट   और  later  शादीशुदा   और   था  two sons .
बाद  World War II , Eisenhower served  as  Army Chief of  स्टाफ   अंतर्गत   अध्यक्ष   हैरी  S. Truman  ,   तब  assumed the post of  अध्यक्ष  at Columbia  विश्वविद्यालयों  .
Eisenhower entered  the   1952  presidential race as a Republican to counter  the   non-interventionism  of Senator Robert A.  taft  and to crusade against `` Communism , Korea and corruption ''  .
He  जीती  by a  भूस्खलन  ,  defeating  Democrat Adlai  stevenson  and  समाप्ति  two  दशकों  of  the  New  सौदे  Coalition .
In  the   पहला  year  of  his presidency ,  आइज़नहावर  deposed the leader  of  Iran  in  the 1953 Iranian coup  d'état   और  used nuclear  खतरे  to conclude  the  Korean War with China .
उसके  New Look policy  of   नाभिकीय  deterrence  दिया  priority to inexpensive nuclear weapons while  reducing  the funding for conventional military forces ; the goal was  to  keep pressure on the  सोवियत  Union and reduce  संघीय  deficits .
in  1954  ,   आइज़नहावर  first articulated the  domino   सिद्धान्त   in  his description of the threat  प्रस्तुत  by the spread of communism  .
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution , which enabled him to prevent Chinese communist  आक्रामकता  against Chinese nationalists  और  established  the  U.S. policy of defending Taiwan .
When the Soviets launched Sputnik in  1957  , he  था   to  play catch-up in the  स्पेस  race .
Eisenhower forced Israel , the UK , and France to end their invasion  of  Egypt  दौरान   the  Suez Crisis  of  1956 .
In 1958 , he  भेजा  15,000 US troops to Lebanon to prevent  the  pro-Western government from  गिरना  to  a   nasser  -inspired revolution .
निकट   the   समाप्त  of  उसके   पद  ,  उसके  efforts to  नियत   up  a summit  बैठक  with  the   soviets  collapsed because of the U-2 incident .
On the domestic  सामने  ,  he   covertly   opposed  Joseph McCarthy  और   contributed   to  the  समाप्त  of McCarthyism  by  openly  invoking   the  modern expanded  संस्करण  of  कार्यपालिका  privilege  .
He  वरना  left  सबसे  political activity to his Vice President , Richard Nixon .
He  थी  a moderate conservative who continued New Deal  एजेंसियों  and expanded Social Security .
Among his  enduring  innovations  ,  he launched the Interstate Highway  प्रणाली  ; the Defense  उन्नत  Research Projects Agency ( DARPA  )  , which  led  to the internet ,  among  many  invaluable  outputs ;  the   नेशनल  Aeronautics and Space Administration (  नासा  )  ,  driving peaceful discovery in  स्पेस  ;  the  establishment of strong science education via  the  National  रक्षा   शिक्षा  Act ; and encouraging peaceful use of  नाभिकीय  power via amendments to the  परमाणु  Energy Act .
In social policy , he  भेजा   संघीय   सैनिकों  to  छोटी  Rock , Arkansas  ,  for the first  समय   चूंकि  Reconstruction to enforce federal  अदालत   आदेश   to   desegregate  public schools .
He also  हस्ताक्षरित  civil rights legislation in  1957  and 1960  to   protect  the  सही  to vote .
He implemented desegregation of  the  armed  शक्तियां  in two years and made  पाँच  appointments to the Supreme Court .
He  थी  the first term-limited president in accordance with  the  22nd Amendment .
Eisenhower  's   दो  terms were peaceful ones  लिये  the most part and  देखी  considerable  आर्थिक  prosperity except for a sharp  मंदी  in 1958–59 .
आइज़नहावर  is often ranked highly among the U.S. Presidents .
Air Force One is the  आधिकारिक  air traffic  कंट्रोल  call  चिह्न  of a United States Air Force  वायुयान  carrying the President of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   .
In  आम   parlance  the term refers  to  those  एयर   फ़ोर्स  aircraft specifically  designed   ,  built , and used  लिये   the  purpose  of   transporting  the president  .
the  Presidential  वायुयान   is   a   prominent  symbol  of  the American  प्रेसिडेंसी  and  इसके  power .
the  idea  of  designating specific military aircraft to transport  the  President arose  in  1943 , when officials of  the  United  राज्य   फौज  Air Forces  –  the predecessor to  the  U.S. Air  फ़ोर्स  – became concerned  साथ  relying on commercial  एयरलाइंस   to  transport the President .
A  c-87   मुक्तिवादी  Express was reconfigured for use as a  अध्यक्षीय  transport ; however , it  थी   अस्वीकृत  by the Secret Service amid  चिंताएं   over  the aircraft 's safety record .
a  C-54 Skymaster  थी  then  परिवर्तित  for presidential use  ;  this aircraft ,  उतावले  the Sacred Cow , transported President Franklin D.  रूज़वेल्ट  to the Yalta  सम्मेलन   in  February 1945 ,  और  was  subsequently  used for another two years  by  President  हैरी  S. Truman .
The  ``  Air  फ़ोर्स   एक   ''  call sign  थी  created  बाद  a 1953 incident during which  a  flight carrying President Dwight D. Eisenhower entered the same airspace as  a   वाणिज्यिक   एयरलाइन   उड़ान  using the same call sign .
Several aircraft have been  प्रयुक्त   as  Air  फ़ोर्स  One since the  सृष्टि  of the presidential fleet ,  सहित   दो   बोइंग  707s introduced in the 1960s and 1970s , respectively ; since  1990  ,  the   अध्यक्षीय  fleet has consisted of two  बोइंग  VC-25As – specifically  विन्यस्त  ,  अत्यधिक  customized Boeing  747-200b   श्रेणी  aircraft .
the  Air  फ़ोर्स   is  looking  into  replacing  the  two  vc-25  aircraft with three replacement aircraft beginning in 2017 .
a  wedding anniversary is the  वर्षगांठ  of  the  date a wedding took place .
Traditional names  मौजूद   लिये  most  of  them  :  for instance  ,  50 years of marriage is called  a  `` golden wedding  वर्षगांठ  ''  or   बस  a `` golden anniversary ''  .
A  स्कैनर  with Duplexing  स्वचालित  Document  फीडर   .
In multifunction  or   all-in-one  printers  ,  fax machines ,  photocopiers  and  scanners  , an  स्वचालित  document  फीडर   or   adf  is  a   विशेषता  which takes several pages and feeds the paper  एक  page at a time into a  स्कैनर  or copier ,  allowing  the user to scan ,  और  thereby copy , print , or  फैक्स  ,  multiple-page  documents without having  to  manually replace each page .
Most copiers allow  स्कैनिंग  on  the  flatbed  or  platen ( the  ``  glass  ''  ) or  through   a  document feeder .
The  विशाल  majority of  फैक्स  machines  have   an   adf  , allowing the unattended sending of  multi-page   faxes  .
Due to  the  ubiquity of ADF in fax machines , some fax machine owners  उपयोग  the fax machine as a scanner ,  faxing  multi-page documents to themselves  .
दस्तावेज़   feeders  are  वर्णित   by  speed , in pages per  मिनट  or ppm ,  और  capacity  ,  usually in a  दायरा  from 10  चादरें  to 200 .
वहीँ   हैं  two kinds  of  document feeders capable of  two-sided  ( duplex ) scanning  :  a  reversing  automatic  दस्तावेज़  feeder or RADF scans one side of a  पेज   ,  then  flips  it  और  scans  the  other side .
A duplexing  स्वचालित  document feeder or  dadf   scans  both sides in one pass .
The advantage  of  the DADF  is   तेज़  speed  लिये  two-sided  मूल  .
RADFs  और  DADFs are rated  in  images  प्रति  minute  (  IPM ) ,  the   क्रमांक   of   पहलू  they can scan each minute .
Fair Park is a recreational and educational  जटिल  located in Dallas , Texas (  यूएसए  )  .
the  complex is registered  as   a  Dallas Landmark , National  ऐतिहासिक  Landmark and is  घर  to nine museums , six  प्रदर्शन   सुविधाएं  , a lagoon  ,  and the  largest  Ferris  व्हील   in  North America  .
Many of  the  buildings  on   the  complex were constructed  लिये   the  Texas Centennial Exposition in 1936 which drew over  छह   लाख   विज़िटर  .
Most  of   the  buildings  निर्मित   लिये  the  exposition  still survive and it is  पहचाना  as a significant  उदाहरण  of  आर्ट   डेको   वास्तुकला   .
Fair  पार्क   रै   महरूम  designated a  ग्रेट  Place in America  by  the American Planning  संघ  .
The American Planning Association ( APA )  “is  an independent , not-for-profit educational  संगठन  that provides leadership in  the   विकास  of vital  communities.”
the  Great Places in  अमरीकी  program  helps  to  celebrate  areas with “exemplary character ,  विशेषता  , and planning.”
Being designated as a  ग्रेट   प्लेस   in  America  ,   मेला  Park  थी  one of  तभी  ten cities chosen  in  2011  .
San Jose ( ; Spanish :  st.  Joseph ) is  the  third-largest city in California ,  the  tenth-largest  in  the U.S. , and the  काउंटी  seat of  सांता  Clara County which  is   स्तिथ   at  the  दक्षिणी  end of San Francisco Bay .
San  जोस  is  the  largest city within Silicon  घाटी  , which  is  a  प्रमुख   घटक   of  the greater San Francisco  खाड़ी  Area , a region of 8.4  लाख  people  और  the fifth  largest  metropolitan area ( CSA ) in the United  राज्य  .
It is  the   largest   नगर  in Northern California  .
San Jose was founded on  नवम्बर   29   ,  1777  ,   as   el  Pueblo de San José de Guadalupe  ,  the first  civilian  town  in  the  स्पेनी  colony of Nueva  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ,  जिससे  later became Alta  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
The  नगर   परोसा   as   a   खेती  community to support Spanish  सैन्य   संस्थापना   at   सैन   फ्रांसिस्को  and  monterey  .
जब  California gained statehood in 1850 , San Jose served as its first capital .
बाद  more  than  150 years as  a  small  खेती  city , San  जोस   और  the  surrounding  Santa Clara Valley became the last  (   और  largest ) contiguous  क्षेत्रफल   of  undeveloped land surrounding  the  San Francisco Bay .
San  जोस  experienced increased demand for  आवास  from soldiers and veterans  returning   इससे  World War  ii  .
San Jose then  जारी   इसके  aggressive expansion during  the   1950s   और   1960s  by  annexing  more land area .
The rapid growth of the  high-technology   और  electronics industries further  त्वरित   the   परिवर्तन   इससे  an agricultural center  ,  to an urbanized metropolitan area .
By the 1990s  ,   सैन   जोस  's location within  the  booming local  प्रौद्योगिकी  industry earned the  नगर   इसके   उपनाम   ,  Capital of Silicon Valley .
San Jose now maintains global city status and is the largest city  in  the San Francisco Bay Area in terms of population ,  जमीन   क्षेत्रफल  ,  और  industrial development  .
The  u.S.  Census  ब्यूरो   reported  the population  of  the  नगर  to  be  945,942 as of  the   2010  Census .
As of April  2013  , the estimated population  of  San Jose was 984,000  .
San Jose , along  साथ  the Santa Clara Valley ,  अनुभवी   परिचय  half  a  century  of  spectacular suburban sprawl , with  विशेषताएँ  of  तीव्र   शहरी  similar to the Los  एंजिल्स  area of Southern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
The city  रै  taken  definite  steps  to  avoid becoming  ``  L.A.  उत्तर  '' .
However ,  the   sprawl  in San  जोस   is   बदतर  than in Los Angeles  by  measures such as population density  और   पब्लिक  transit safety  ,  investment  ,   और   ridership  .
Europe depicted by  antwerp  cartographer Abraham  ortelius  in  1595
The history  of  Europe covers  the   लोगों  inhabiting the European  महाद्वीप  since it was  पहला  populated in prehistoric times  to   उपस्थित  , with  the  first  होमो   sapiens   arriving  between 45,000  और  25,000 BC .
the   earliest   settlers  to Prehistoric  यूरोपीय  came during  the  paleolithic  era   .
The arrival of agriculture  around  7000 BC ushered in  the   पाषाणकालीन   आयु  .
पाषाणकालीन  Europe  lasted   लिये  4000 years , overlapping with metal-using  संस्कृतियों  that gradually spread throughout the  महाद्वीप  .
Technological  अग्रिम  during the prehistoric age tended to  arrive  from  the  Middle East , spreading  धीरे  to the northwest .
कुछ  of the best-known civilizations of prehistoric Europe  यहूद  Minoan  और  Mycenaean , which flourished during the  कांस्य   आयु  until they collapsed in a short  काल  of time around 1200 BC .
The  काल  known as classical  प्राचीनता   began   साथ  the rise  of  the city-states of  प्राचीन   यूनानियों  .
Greek influence reached its zenith under the expansive empire  of  Alexander  the  Great , spreading throughout  एशिया   .
Northern and  पश्चिमी   यूरोपीय   यहूद  dominated by  the  La Tène  संस्कृति   ,  a  precursor  to  the  Celts .
Rome , a small city-state traditionally  संस्थापित   in  753 BC ,  होता   grow  to become the  रोमन   गणतंत्र  in 509  bc  and would succeed  यूनानी   संस्कृति   as   the  dominant  भूमध्यसागरीय   सभ्यता  .
The events of the rule  of  Julius Caesar  led  to  reorganization  of  the   गणतंत्र   into  the Roman  साम्राज्य  .
The empire  थी  later divided by the emperor  diocletian  into  the  Western and  पूर्वी  empires .
During the later  सालो  of the Roman  साम्राज्य  ,  the  Germanic  peoples   of  northern Europe grew in strength  और   दोहराया   हमले  led to the Fall  of  the Western  रोमन  Empire in  ad  476 ,  a  date which traditionally  marks  the end of the classical period  और  the start  of  the  मध्य  Ages .
दौरान  the Middle Ages ,  the  Eastern Roman  साम्राज्य  survived , though modern historians refer to  इस  state as the Byzantine Empire .
in  Western Europe ,  germanic   peoples   स्थानांतरित  into  स्थितियाँ  of  शक्ति  in  the  remnants of the  पूर्व   पश्चिमी   रोमन   साम्राज्य  and established kingdoms and empires of their own  .
of  all of the Germanic peoples ,  the  Franks  होता  rise to  a  position of  आधिपत्य  over western  यूरोपीय  , the  frankish  Empire reaching its peak under  शारलेमेन  around AD  800  .
Francia  थी  divided into several parts ; West Francia would  evolve  into the  किंगडम  of France , while East Francia would  evolve   into  the Holy Roman Empire , a precursor to  आधुनिक  Germany  .
The  अंग्रेजों   isles   यहूद   the  site of  अनेक  large-scale migrations  .
Native  सेल्टिक  peoples had been marginalized during the  काल  of Roman Britain , and when the Romans  abandoned  the British Isles  दौरान  the 400s , waves of Germanic Anglo-Saxons  migrated  to southern  ब्रिटेन  and established a series of  क्षुद्र  kingdoms in  कया  would eventually develop into the  किंगडम  of England by  ad   927  .
दौरान  this  काल  , the Kingdom of Poland  और  Kingdom of Hungary  (   1000–1945  )  यहूद  organized  as  well  .
the  Viking  आयु  , a  काल  of  migrations   of  Scandinavian  peoples  , dominated the period from  the  late 700s  to  the  मध्य   1000s  .
Chief among the Viking states was the Empire of  cnut  the Great , a Danish  नेता   जो  would become king of England  ,  Denmark  ,   और   नार्वे  .
The Normans ,  a   viking   लोगों  who  settled  in  उत्तरी  France and founded  the   duchy  of  normandy   ,  would have a significant  प्रभाव  on many parts of Europe  ,   इससे  the  नॉर्मन   conquest  of  इंग्लैण्ड  to Southern  इटली  and Sicily  .
Another  scandinavian  people , the Rus  '  people  ,   होता   go  on to  मिला  Kievan Rus '  ,   an  early  राज्य  which was a precursor for the  आधुनिक  country of Russia .
As the Viking  आयु  drew to  a   बंद  , the period  ज्ञात   as  the  क्रूसेड   ,  a  श्रेणी  of religiously-motivated military expeditions originally intended  to  bring the Levant back into Christian rule , began .
Several Crusader  राज्य   यहूद  founded  in  the eastern Mediterranean .
These were  सब  short-lived  .
The Crusaders would have  a  profound impact  on   अनेक   भाग  of Europe  .
Their  बोरी  of  कुस्तुंतुनिया   in   1204  brought an abrupt end to the Byzantine  साम्राज्य  .
Extinct  श्वान  breeds is a compilation  of  dog breeds  कि  have become extinct .
Wii  बोलो  is  a  microphone  accessory   लिये  Nintendo 's Wii video  खेल  console .
Connected to  the  console via USB , the device  can   be  placed near the video  प्रदर्शक  , allowing voice chat to be conducted with  the  entire room .
the  device features an LED to  indicate   जब   the   माइक्रोफोन  is  क्रियाशील   .
Wii Speak  थी  announced at  निन्टेंडो   's  2008 E3 media briefing .
It was  released   separately   और  bundled with  एनिमल   क्रासिंग  :  नगर  Folk  on  November  16  ,  2008   ,  in North America  ,   और  was released on December 5 , 2008  ,  in Europe .
the  Wii Speak accessory is succeeded by the  अंतःस्थापित   माइक्रोफोन  on the  वी   u  's  gamepad  controller .
निसान  Intelligent  key®
A  smart  key is an electronic access  और   प्राधिकरण   प्रणाली   जिससे   is  available as  an   विकल्प  or  मानक  in several  गाड़ियाँ   .
it  was first developed by  siemens   in   the   mid-1990s  and introduced by Mercedes-Benz under the name ``  keyless  Go  ''  in 1998 on  the   w220   s-class  following its  डिज़ाइन  patent filed  by  Daimler-Benz  on  May 17  ,  1997  .
Univisión ( ) is a  spanish-language   टेलीविज़न  network in  the   संयुक्त  States .
The network is primarily dedicated  लिये   लैटिन   अमरीकी  families who reside  in  the United States .
It has  the  largest audience  of  Spanish-language television viewers in the world  according  to Nielsen ratings .
Randy Falco  ,   (   सीईओ   as  of  जून  29 , 2011 ) COO , has  महरूम  in  चार्ज  of the company since the departure of Univision Communications president and CEO Joe Uva in April 2010 .
In recent  सालो   the   संजाल   रै  reached  पैरिटी  with  the  U.S. 's five major English-language  टेलीविज़न  networks  ,  and  is  often  a  strong fifth ,  outranking  The CW  ,  with some fourth-place weekly  placings   ,   और  as of 2012 , even  पहला  place rankings for individual  कार्यक्रम   over  all five English networks due to the network 's consistent schedule of new telenovelas  सब  52 weeks of  the  year .
Univisión is headquartered in New York  ,   और  has its major studios , production facilities , and operations in  doral  , Florida , a suburb of Miami .
In  2009  , another  टेलीविज़न  studio was announced , Univision  studios  ,  to   be  built in Doral .
univision   is  available on cable and satellite  in   सबसे  of the country , with  लोकल   स्टेशन  in over 50  बाज़ार  with large  हिस्पैनिक   और  Latino populations and a national cable network  फीड  distributed in markets without either the availability or  the  demand  लिये  a locally-based station  .
सबसे  of these stations  एयर  full local news and  अन्य  local programming  in  addition to network shows ,  और  in  प्रमुख  markets such as Los Angeles ,  नई  York , and Miami the  लोकल   newscasts  carried by the  संजाल   's   owned-and-operated   स्टेशन   (  O  &  O )  स्टेशन   हैं  equally competitive with  उनके  English-language counterparts ratings-wise .
univisión  was  acquired   on  March 29 , 2007 by a consortium led by Haim  saban  's Saban  पूंजी   समूह  ( who had previously  स्वामित्व  the entity Saban Entertainment ) ,  tpg  Capital , L.P.  ,  Providence  इक्विटी  Partners  ,  Madison Dearborn Partners , and Thomas H. Lee  साझेदार  for  $  13.7  अरब  or  $  36.25 per share plus $ 1.4  अरब  in acquired debt  .
the  buyout left  the   कम्पनी  with a debt level of twelve times its  सालाना  cash flow , which was  twice  the norm in  buyouts  done over the previous two years .
Artist  's   धारणा  of a protoplanetary disk
The formation  और  of  the   सौर  System is  अनुमानित  to  have  begun 4.6 billion years ago with  the  gravitational  पतन   of  a small part of a giant molecular cloud .
Most  of  the  collapsing   द्रव्यमान  collected in  the  centre ,  forming  the Sun  ,   जबकि   the  rest flattened  into   a  protoplanetary disk  आउट  of which the  ग्रह  , moons , asteroids , and  अन्य  small Solar System bodies formed .
This widely  स्वीकृत   मॉडल  , known as the nebular hypothesis ,  थी  first developed  in   the  18th century by Emanuel Swedenborg , Immanuel Kant ,  और  Pierre-Simon  लाप्लास  .
इसके   subsequent  development has  interwoven   a   किस्में  of scientific disciplines  सहित  astronomy  ,  physics ,  भूविज्ञान  , and  ग्रहीय  science .
Since the dawn  of  the  स्पेस   आयु  in  the   1950s  and the  डिस्कवरी   of  extrasolar  ग्रह  in the 1990s  ,  the model has  महरूम  both  challenged  and  परिष्कृत  to account for new  observations  .
The  सौर  System has evolved considerably  चूंकि   इसके  initial formation .
Many moons have formed from circling  discs  of gas and  धूल   around  their parent planets ,  जबकि  other moons are thought  to  have formed  independently  and  बाद   महरूम   captured  by their planets .
Still others  ,  as the  धरती   's  Moon , may be the  परिणाम   of   दानव  collisions  .
टक्करों  between bodies have occurred  continually   up  to the present day and have  महरूम   सेंट्रल  to the evolution of the Solar System .
The positions of the  ग्रह   प्रायः  shifted  ,  and planets have switched  स्थान  .
This planetary migration is now thought to have  महरूम  responsible for  much   of  the  सौर  System 's  जल्दी  evolution .
in  roughly  5   अरब  years , the Sun will cool and expand outward many times its current diameter  (   बनने  a  रेड   दानव   )   ,   पहले  casting off  इसके  outer  परतों  as a planetary nebula and leaving  पीछे   a   तारकीय  remnant  ज्ञात  as a white dwarf .
In the far distant future ,  the  gravity of  गुजर   सितारों  will gradually reduce  the   सूर्य  's retinue of  ग्रह  .
Some planets will be destroyed , others ejected into  अंतरतारकीय  space  .
Ultimately , over the course of tens of  अरबों   of  years ,  it  is likely that the Sun will be left with none of  the  original bodies in  कक्षा  around it .
The Trial ( Kafka  's  original German title : , later as ,  और   )   is  a  अनोखा  written by Franz Kafka in  1914  and 1915 but not  प्रकाशित  until 1925 .
One  of  Kafka 's best-known  works  ,  it  tells  the  story of a man arrested  और  prosecuted  by  a remote ,  अभिगम्य  authority ,  साथ  the nature  of  his crime revealed to  neither  him nor the reader .
Like Kafka 's  अन्य  novels  ,  The Trial was never  समाप्त  , although  it  does include  a  chapter which  brings  the story to an  समाप्त  .
Because of this there are certain  inconsistencies  which exist  भीतर   the  novel , such as disparities  in  timing  in  addition to other  discontinuities  in narration  .
After Kafka 's death  in   1924  his  dost  and literary executor Max Brod edited the  टेक्स्ट   लिये   प्रकाशन  by  verlag  Die  schmiede   .
the   असली  manuscript is  आयोजित   at  the  संग्रहालय  of Modern Literature  ,  Marbach am Neckar , Germany .
in  1999 , the book  थी  listed in  le  Mondes 100 Books  of  the Century  और   as   no  .  2   of  the Best German Novels of  the  Twentieth  सदी   .
Lisa  ऐनी   लोएब  ( born March 11 ,  1968   )  is an American singer-songwriter  और   अभिनेत्री  .
She launched her career in 1994 with the song , `` Stay  (  I  छूटी  You ) ``  ,  which  थी   शामिल  in the film  वास्तविकता  Bites .
She was  the  first artist  to  have a number one  सिंगल  in the United States  जबकि  not signed to  a  recording  अनुबंध  .
Her five  स्टुडियो   cds  include her major  लेबल   डेब्यू  , the gold-selling  tails   और   इसके  follow-up , the Grammy-nominated ,  gold-selling  Firecracker .
लोएब  has also worked in film  ,  television , voice-over work and  children’s   रिकार्डिंग  .
Loeb  रै  appeared in two television series ,  dweezil  & Lisa ,  a   साप्ताहिक   culinary  adventure for  the  Food Network  और  Number 1 Single  ,  a  वास्तविकता   दिखाएँ   on   the  E !
संजाल   in  2006 focused  on  her quest for love , success ,  करियर  , and family  .
उसके   children   's   म्यूज़िक  includes the albums  कैच  the Moon (  2003  )  ,   और  Camp Lisa  (   2008  )  .
Her first joint children 's book  और   एल्बम  Lisa  लोएब   's  Silly Sing-Along : The Disappointing  पैनकेक   और  Other Zany Songs was published in 2011  .
In  2010  she founded the Lisa  लोएब  Eyewear Collection ,  जिससे  is based on her own designs .
The Coat  of  arms of the  राज्य  of New Jersey includes:
A shield  साथ  three plows emblazoned , representative of  नई  Jersey  's  agricultural  परंपरा  .
A forward-facing  नाईट  's  हेल्मेट  .
A  घोड़ा  's head as  the   crest  of the helmet .
The female  आंकड़े  Liberty  और  Ceres  ,   प्रतिनिधि   of  the state 's motto ( see  अगला   मद   )  .
Liberty  is   पकड़कर  a  स्टाफ   supporting  a ``  स्वतंत्रता   कैप   ``  ; Ceres is holding  an  overflowing cornucopia  .
The streamer  at  the foot of  the  emblem  contains  the  राज्य   motto  of New  जर्सी   ,  `` Liberty and  समृद्धि  '' ,  और   the   साल  of statehood , 1776 .
It was  originally  designed by Pierre Eugene  du  Simitiere  in   1777  and was  परिवर्धित   थोड़ा  in  1928  .
The  मुहर  is the central motif  in  the flag of New Jersey  और   the  Great Seal of  the   राज्य   of  New Jersey .
The Coat of arms contains a horse 's head  .
A  हेल्मेट   प्रर्दशित  that New Jersey  governs  itself accordingly and three plows  on  a shield  referring  to the State  's  agriculture tradition , giving it the nickname `` Garden State ''  .
The  दो   देवियाँ  represent  the  State motto , ``  स्वतंत्रता   और   समृद्धि   ''  .
स्वतंत्रता  is  on  the left .
वो  is  पकड़कर   a  staff  साथ  a liberty cap on  it  ,  और  the word  स्वतंत्रता  underneath her .
The  देवी  on  the  right is Ceres , goddess of agriculture .
She is holding  a   cornucopia  with prosperity written below her .
according   to  the minutes  of   the  New  जर्सी  General Assembly for  कूच   11   ,  1896 , the date in which the Assembly officially approved the flag as  the  state emblem  ,  the buff  रंग   is  due indirectly to George  वॉशिंगटन  , who had  ordered   on  October 2 , 1779 , that the uniform coats  of   the  New  जर्सी  Continental Line be dark (  जर्सी  ) blue , with  buff  facings  .
Buff-colored facings had  जबतक   तब  been reserved only for  उसके  own uniform and those  of  other  महाद्वीपीय  generals and  उनके  aides .
Then  ,  on February 28  ,  1780 , the Continental War  अधिकारियों  in Philadelphia  निर्देशित   कि  the uniform coat facings of all regiments were to be the  वही   as  the  पृष्ठभूमि  color of  the  regiments '  राज्य  flag .
The seal  is  described in New Jersey statute Title 52  ,   §2-1:
`` We  can  Work It Out '' is  a   सोंग  by  the   बीटल्स  ,  लिखा   by  Paul McCartney and John Lennon .
It was  released   as  a `` double A-sided `` single with `` Day Tripper `` , the  पहला  time both sides of a  सिंगल  were so designated in  an  initial release .
दोनो  songs were recorded during  the   रबर  Soul sessions .
The song is an example of Lennon–McCartney  सहयोग  at a  गहराई  that happened only rarely after  वे  wrote the hit singles of 1963  .
This song , `` A Day in the Life ``  ,  `` Baby  ,  You 're a  समृद्ध   man  `` and ``  i  've Got a Feeling `` , are among the  notable  exceptions .
As a medical diagnosis , pedophilia or  paedophilia  is a psychiatric disorder in  व्यक्तियों  16 years of  आयु  or  पुरानी   typically  characterized by a primary or  विशेष  sexual interest  toward   prepubescent  children  (  generally  आयु  11  सालो   or  younger , though  विशिष्ट   निदान  criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ) .
An adolescent who  is  16  सालो  of  आयु  or older  जरूर  be at  तनिक  five years older  than  the prepubescent child  पहले  the attraction  can   be  diagnosed as  pedophilia  .
The term has  a  range of definitions , as found in  psychiatry  , psychology ,  the   देशी  , and  विधि  enforcement .
The International Classification of Diseases (  आईसीडी   )  defines pedophilia  as  a  ``  disorder of adult personality  और  behaviour  ''  in which  वहीँ  is  a  sexual  वरीयता   लिये   children  of  prepubertal  or early  pubertal   आयु  .
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical  हस्तचालित  of Mental  विकार  (  dsm   )  , it  is  a paraphilia in  जिससे  adults or adolescents 16 years of age  or  older  have   तीव्र  and recurrent sexual  प्रेरणाएं  towards  और  fantasies about  prepubescent   children  that they have either  acted  on or which cause them distress or interpersonal difficulty  .
In popular usage  ,   pedophilia   अर्थात्   कोई  sexual interest in  children  or the act  of   चाइल्ड   यौन   गाली  , often termed  ``  pedophilic behavior  ''  .
For example , The  अमरीकी  Heritage Stedman 's Medical Dictionary states  ,  `` Pedophilia is the act or fantasy  on  the  भाग  of an adult  of  engaging in sexual activity with  a  child or  children   .  ''
इस  common  उपयोग   अनुप्रयोग  also extends to  the  sexual  ब्याज  in and sexual contact with pubescent or post-pubescent minors .
शोधकर्ताओं   सुझाएँ  that these imprecise  उपयोग  be avoided  क्युकी  although people who commit  चाइल्ड  sexual  गाली  commonly exhibit the disorder , some offenders do  नहीं  meet the clinical  निदान  standards for  pedophilia  and these standards  pertain  to prepubescents .
Additionally ,  नहीं  all pedophiles actually commit such abuse .
Pedophilia was first  formally   पहचाना   और   नामित  in the late 19th century  .
A significant  राशि  of research in the area has taken place since the 1980s  .
Although mostly documented in men , there are  भी  women who exhibit  the   विकार   ,  and  शोधकर्ताओं  assume available estimates underrepresent the  सच्चा  number of  मादा   pedophiles  .
No cure for pedophilia has been  विकसित  , but there are therapies that can reduce the incidence  of  a person committing child sexual abuse .
In  the   संयुक्त  States , following Kansas v. Hendricks , sex offenders who are diagnosed  साथ  certain  दिमागी  disorders , particularly pedophilia ,  can  be subject to  indefinite   सिविल  commitment ,  अंतर्गत  various state laws ( generically  पुकारा  SVP  कानून   )  and  the  federal Adam  वाल्श  Child Protection and  सुरक्षा   अधिनियम  of  2006  .
At present , the exact causes of pedophilia have not been conclusively  स्थापित  .
Research suggests that pedophilia may be  correlated   साथ   अनेक  different neurological abnormalities , and often  co-exists  with  अन्य   व्यक्तित्व  disorders and  मनोवैज्ञानिक  pathologies .
in  the contexts of forensic psychology and law enforcement , a  किस्में  of  typologies   have  been suggested to categorize pedophiles  according  to behavior  और   motivations   .
जूलियो   césar  Chávez ( born Julio César Chávez González  on  July 12 , 1962  )   is  a retired Mexican professional  boxer  .
Chávez is considered by many people  लिये  their sport statistics the greatest fighter  कभी  to come out of Mexico .
He is a six-time  संसार  champion in three  वज़न   विभाजन  , and for several years he was considered  एक   of   the  best pound-for-pound boxer in the  संसार  .
In a career that spanned over  25  years ,  chávez  won  पाँच   संसार  titles  in  three weight divisions :  wbc  Super Featherweight  in  1984 , WBA Lightweight  in   1987  , WBC Lightweight in 1988  ,  WBC Light  welterweight  in 1989 , IBF Light Welterweight  in   1990   ,   और   wbc  Light Welterweight in 1994  .
He holds records for most successful  लगातार   defenses  of world titles (  27  ) ,  सबसे   शीर्षक  fights (  37  ) , most title-fight  victories  ( 31 ) and he  is  after  जो   लुई   साथ  ( 23  )   लिये  most title defenses won  by  knockout  (   21  )  .
Chávez  भी   रै   the   longest   अपराजित  streak in boxing history ,  13  years .
His record was 89-0-1 going into  उसके  first loss to Frankie  रान्डेल  and had an  87  fight win streak until  उसके  ``  चित्रण   ''  with Whitaker .
Julio César  chávez  was  ज्ञात  for his  बकाया   पंचिंग  power ,  विनाशकारी  body attack ,  remarkably  strong  chin  and the relentless stalking of his opponents .
He ranks  #  24  on  ESPN 's 50  महानतम  Boxers Of All Time  .
On  दिसम्बर  7 , 2010  ,  he was inducted in  the  prestigious International Boxing Hall of  कीर्ति  for the Class  of  2011  .
he  is the  पिता  of prospect Omar Chávez and former  wbc   middleweight  Champion Julio César  chávez  , Jr  .
``  Selektion ``  on  the  judenrampe   ,  Auschwitz  ,  May/June 1944  .
to   be   भेजा  to the right meant  स्लेव   मजदूर  ; to the  बाएँ  ,  the  gas chamber .
This image shows the  आगमन   of  Hungarian Jews from Carpatho-Ruthenia , many  of  them from  the  Berehov ghetto .
The  फ़ोटोग्राफ़र  was  अर्नस्ट  Hofmann or Bernhard Walter  of  the SS . Image  सौजन्य   of  Yad Vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek '  :  hólos , `` whole  ''   और  kaustós , `` burnt  ''  ) also  ज्ञात  as the Shoah (  यहूदी   :  ,  hashoah  , `` catastrophe ''  ;  Yiddish : ,  churben  or Hurban , from the Hebrew  लिये  `` destruction '' ) ,  थी   the   द्रव्यमान   हत्या  or genocide of approximately six million Jews during World War  ii  ,  a  programme  of  systematic state-sponsored murder by Nazi Germany , led  by  Adolf  हिटलर  and the  नाजी  Party , throughout German-occupied territory .
of  the nine  लाख  Jews who had resided  in   यूरोपीय  before the Holocaust , approximately  two-thirds  were  मारे  .
Over one million  यहूदी  children  यहूद  killed in the Holocaust  ,  as  यहूद  approximately two million  यहूदी  women and three million  यहूदी  men  .
A network of over 40,000  सुविधाएं  in  जर्मनी  and German-occupied territory  यहूद   प्रयुक्त   to  concentrate  ,  hold ,  और   मार  Jews  और   अन्य  victims .
कुछ   विद्वानों   argue  that the  द्रव्यमान   हत्या   of  the Romani and people  साथ  disabilities should  be   शामिल   in   the   परिभाषा  , and some use the common noun ``  holocaust   ''  to  describe  other Nazi mass murders , including  those   of  Soviet prisoners of war , Polish and Soviet civilians  ,  and homosexuals .
Recent  estimates   आधारित   on  figures  प्राप्त  since  the   पतन   of   the   सोवियत  Union indicates some  टेन  to  ग्यारह  million  नागरिकों  and prisoners of war were intentionally  murdered  by the Nazi regime .
the  persecution and genocide were carried  आउट  in stages .
Various  कानून  to remove the Jews from  सिविल   समाज  ,  सबसे  prominently  the  Nuremberg Laws , were enacted in Germany years before the outbreak of World War  ii   .
Concentration  शिविरों  were established  in  which  inmates   यहूद  subjected  to  slave labor until they  died   of  exhaustion or disease  .
Where Germany conquered new territory in eastern Europe  ,  specialized units called  einsatzgruppen  murdered  यहूदियों   और  political opponents in mass shootings .
The occupiers  जरूरी  Jews and Romani  to   be  confined  in   overcrowded  ghettos before being transported by  भाड़ा   ट्रैन   to  extermination camps where ,  if   वे   बच  the  यात्रा  , most  यहूद   systematically  killed  in  gas  कक्षों  .
Every  भुजा  of Germany 's bureaucracy was involved in the logistics that led to the  genocides  , turning the Third Reich into what one Holocaust scholar  रै  called `` a  genocidal  state  ''  .
4-h   in  the United States is a youth organization administered  by  the National Institute  of   खाना   और  Agriculture of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  Department  of  Agriculture ( USDA  )  , with  the  mission  of  `` engaging youth to reach their fullest potential while  advancing  the field of  युवावस्था   विकास   .   ''
the  name represents four personal  विकास  areas of focus for the  संगठन   :   सिर   ,  heart , hands  ,   और  health  .
The  संगठन   रै  over 6.5 million members in the  संयुक्त  States ,  इससे   आयु  five  to  twenty-one , in approximately 90,000 clubs  .
The  लक्ष्य  of 4-H is to develop citizenship , leadership ,  जिम्मेदारी  and life skills of youth through experiential learning programs  और   a  positive  युवावस्था  development approach .
Though typically thought  of  as an  agriculturally  focused organization as  a  result of its history  ,  4-H  आज   focuses  on citizenship ,  स्वस्थ  living , science , engineering , and technology programs .
Today , 4-H  और   सम्बन्धित  programs exist in over eighty  देशों   around  the  संसार   ;  the organization and administration varies from country to country  .
प्रत्येक  of these programs operates independently , but cooperatively through  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  exchanges  ,  global education  कार्यक्रम  , and  संचार  .
The 4-H motto  is  ``  to  make the  बेहतरीन  better  ''   ,  while  इसके  slogan  is  `` Learn  by  doing '' ( sometimes written as  ``  Learn  to  do by doing '' ) .
the  national  ध्वज   of  Chile ,  consists   of  two  गैरबराबरी   आड़ा   bands  of white and red and a blue square the same height as the white band  in  the canton ,  जिससे  bears a white five-pointed star in  the  center .
It  थी   अपनाया   on   18  October 1817 .
The  chilean   ध्वज  is also  ज्ञात  in  स्पेनी   as   la  Estrella Solitaria (  the  Lone Star ) .
the  star represents a guide to progress and honor  ;  blue  symbolizes  the  आसमान  and the  प्रशांत  Ocean ,  श्वेत   is  for the snow-covered Andes , and red stands for the blood  spilled  to  achieve   स्वतंत्रता  .
according  to  the   एपिक   कविता   la   araucana  , the colors were  निकला  from those  इससे  the  ध्वज   flown   by  the Mapuche during  the  Arauco War .
``  ध्वज  Day '' is  आयोजित  each year  on   the  ninth of July  to  commemorate  the   77  soldiers  जो  died in the 1882  बैटल   of   la  Concepción .
पीढी  Y , also known as  the  Millennial Generation ,  is  the  जनसांख्यिकी  cohort following  पीढी   x  .
There  हैं   no  precise  तिथियाँ  for  जब  Generation Y starts and ends  .
Commentators  उपयोग  beginning birth  तिथियाँ  from  the  latter 1970s  ,  or from the early 1980s  to   the  early  2000s   .
the  Torches of  नीरो   ,  by Henryk Siemiradzki .
According  to  Tacitus  ,   नीरो   targeted  Christians as those responsible for  the   आग  .
The  ग्रेट  Fire of Rome  (   )  was an urban fire  कि  occurred  शुरूआत   19  July  ad  64 .
Virginia ( ) , officially  the  Commonwealth of Virginia ,  is   a  U.S.  राज्य  located in  the  South  अटलांटिक   प्रदेश  of  the   संयुक्त  States .
वर्जिनिया  is nicknamed  the   ``  Old  डोमिनियन  '' and  the  `` Mother of  राष्ट्रपतियों   ''  after the eight U.S.  राष्ट्रपतियों  born  वहीँ  .
The geography  और   जलवायु   of  the  राष्ट्रमंडल   हैं   तराशा  by the  ब्लू  Ridge Mountains and the Chesapeake  खाड़ी  ,  जिससे  provide  आवास  for much  of  its flora and  fauna   .
The  पूंजी  of the Commonwealth  is  Richmond  ;  and  वर्जिनिया  Beach is the  सबसे  populous  नगर  .
फेयरफैक्स  County  is  the most populous political  subdivision  .
the  wealthiest  is   loudoun  County .
the  Commonwealth  's  population is over eight  लाख   .
the   क्षेत्रफल  's history begins with  अनेक  indigenous groups ,  सहित   the  Powhatan  .
In 1607 the London Company established the Colony of  वर्जिनिया  as the first  स्थाई  New World English colony .
स्लेव   मजदूर  and  the  land acquired  इससे  displaced Native American tribes  प्रत्येक  played a significant role  in  the colony 's  जल्दी   राजनीती   और  plantation economy .
Virginia was one of the  13  Colonies in  the   अमरीकी  Revolution and joined the Confederacy in  the  American Civil War  ,   दौरान  which Richmond was  बना  the  confederate  capital  और  Virginia 's  northwestern  counties seceded to form  the  state of  वेस्ट  Virginia .
Although the Commonwealth was under  रूढ़िवादी  single-party rule for nearly a century following Reconstruction , both  प्रमुख  national parties  हैं   प्रतिस्पर्धी   in  modern  वर्जिनिया   .
The  वर्जिनिया  General Assembly is the oldest legislature  in  the Western Hemisphere .
the  state government  रै  been repeatedly  क्रमित  most effective  by   the  Pew Center  on   the  States .
it  is unique  in   कैसा  it treats cities  और  counties equally , manages local roads , and prohibits its governors  इससे   सेवारत  consecutive terms .
Virginia 's economy has many sectors :  कृषि   in  the Shenandoah  घाटी  ;  संघीय  agencies in  उत्तरी  Virginia , including  the  headquarters  of   the  Department of Defense  और  CIA ;  और  military  सुविधाएं  in Hampton Roads ,  the  site of the region 's main  seaport   .
Virginia 's  पब्लिक  schools  और  many colleges and universities have  contributed   to  growing media and technology  सेक्टर  .
As  a   परिणाम  , computer chips  have  become the  राज्य  's leading  निर्यात  .
खिड़कियाँ  Movie  मेकर  (  formerly   ज्ञात   as   खिड़कियाँ  Live  फिल्म  Maker ,  codenamed   sundance  ) is a  फ्रीवेयर  video editing software  by  Microsoft .
it  is a part of Windows Essentials software suite and offers the ability to  बनाएँ  and edit videos as well as to  प्रकाशित  them on  skydrive  , Facebook , YouTube ,  और  Flickr .
`` Brenda  's  Got A  baby  '' is  the   सोलो  debut single by Tupac Shakur , and tenth track from his  डेब्यू   एल्बम   ,  2Pacalypse Now .
The song , which  सुविधाएँ   r  &  b  singer Dave  hollister  , is about a twelve year-old girl named Brenda  जो  lives in  a   ghetto   ,  has a baby , and is incapable  of  supporting  it  .
The song  explores  the issue  of  teen  गर्भावस्था  and  इसके   प्रभाव   on  the young  माताओं  and  उनके  families .
जैसे  many of Shakur 's songs , `` Brenda 's  मिला  a baby ''  draws   इससे  the plight of  the  impoverished .
Using  ब्रेंडा  to represent young  माताओं   in  general ,  shakur  criticises  the   कम   स्तर  of support from  the  baby  's  father ,  the   सरकारी  , and society  in  general .
shakur  wrote  the  song  जब  he read  a   समाचारपत्र  article about  a  twelve-year-old girl who  मिला   गर्भवती   इससे  her  cousin  and  ,   क्युकी  she did not  want   उसके   अभिभावक   to   जान  about the  baby  ,  फेंका   it  in  a  trash  can  .
the   आधिकारिक   लोगो  of Pokémon for its international  रिलीज  ; `` Pokémon  ''   is  short for the original  जापानी   शीर्षक   of  `` Pocket  राक्षस  '' .
is  a  media  मताधिकार  published and  स्वामित्व   by  Japanese video game company Nintendo and created by Satoshi Tajiri  in  1996 .
Originally  released   as   a  pair  of  interlinkable  खेल   लड़के  role-playing video games developed by Game Freak , Pokémon has since become the  second-most  successful and  lucrative  video  game-based   मीडिया  franchise in the  संसार   ,  behind  तभी  Nintendo 's  अपना  Mario franchise .
Pokémon  गुण   have  since been  merchandised  into anime  ,  manga  ,  trading cards , toys , books  ,   और   अन्य  media  .
The  मताधिकार  celebrated in 2006 , and , cumulative sales of  the  video games ( including home  कंसोल   संस्करण  ,  ऐसे  as the `` Pikachu  ''  Nintendo 64 ) have  पहुँचे  more than  200  million  नक़ल  .
In November 2005 , 4Kids Entertainment ,  जिससे   था  managed  the  non-game related licensing of Pokémon ,  घोषित   कि   it  had agreed not to  नवीनीकृत  the Pokémon representation agreement .
पोकीमॉन  USA Inc. ( now The Pokémon  कम्पनी   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  ) ,  a  subsidiary of  जापानी  's  पोकीमॉन  Co. , now oversees all Pokémon licensing outside of Asia .
the   नाम  Pokémon  is  the  romanized   संकुचन  of the Japanese  ब्रांड  .
The term  पोकीमॉन   ,  in addition  to  referring to  the  Pokémon franchise itself , also collectively  refers   to  the 649 fictional species that have made appearances in Pokémon media  as  of the release  of   the  fifth generation titles Pokémon Black 2 and White  2  ; with  the  upcoming releases of Pokémon X and  y   ,  6 new Pokémon have been featured  in  promotions for the games .
`` Pokémon '' is  एकसमान  in both the singular  और   बहुवचन  , as is  प्रत्येक  individual species name ; it is grammatically  सही  to say ``  एक  Pokémon '' and ``  अनेक   पोकीमॉन   ''  ,  as  well as ``  एक  Pikachu `` and ``  अनेक   pikachu  ''  .
Cover of the first edition of the publication Dada  by  Tristan Tzara ; Zurich , 1917
Dada  (   )   or  Dadaism was an art  गति  of  the  European  avant-garde  in the  जल्दी  20th century .
Many claim Dada  began  in  ज्यूरिख  , Switzerland in 1916 ,  spreading  to Berlin shortly thereafter but the height of  नई  York  दादा   थी  the year before in 1915  .
To quote Dona Budd 's The Language of Art  ज्ञान  ,  दादा  was  born  out of negative reaction  to  the horrors of World  युद्ध   i  .
This international  गति   थी  begun by a group of artist  और  poets  संबद्ध  with the  कैबरे  Voltaire in Zurich .
दादा  rejected reason and logic , prizing nonsense ,  irrationality  and intuition .
The origin  of  the  नाम  Dada is unclear ; some believe that it  is  a  nonsensical   शब्द  .
Others maintain  कि   it  originates from  the  Romanian artists Tristan Tzara and Marcel Janco 's frequent  उपयोग  of the words  da   ,  da ,  अर्थ  yes ,  यस  in the Romanian language  .
Another  सिद्धान्त   says  that the  नाम  ``  दादा  '' came  दौरान  a  बैठक  of the group when  a   पेपर  knife  stuck  into  a  French-German dictionary happened  to  point to  'डैडa   '   ,  a  फ्रेंच  word for 'hobbyhorse '  .
The movement primarily involved  विज़ुअल  arts ,  साहित्य  , poetry , art  manifestoes  , art theory  ,  theatre , and graphic design ,  और   concentrated  its  anti-war  politics through a rejection of the prevailing  मानकों   in   आर्ट  through  anti-art  cultural works .
In addition to being anti-war ,  दादा  was  भी   anti-   बुर्जुआ  and had  राजनैतिक  affinities with  the  radical  बाएँ  .
दादा  activities included  पब्लिक   महफिलों   ,  demonstrations , and publication of art/literary  जर्नल्स  ;  passionate   कवरेज  of art , politics ,  और   संस्कृति   यहूद  topics often discussed in a variety of media  .
Key  आंकड़े   in  the movement included  ह्यूगो  Ball  ,  Emmy Hennings  ,   hans   arp   ,  Raoul Hausmann , Hannah Höch  ,  Johannes Baader , Tristan Tzara ,  फ्रांसिस  Picabia  ,   रिचर्ड   huelsenbeck  , Georg Grosz , John Heartfield  ,  Marcel  duchamp  , Beatrice  लकडी   ,   कर्ट  Schwitters ,  और  Hans  रिक्टर  , among others  .
The movement influenced later styles like the  avant-garde  and downtown  म्यूज़िक  movements , and groups including surrealism , Nouveau  réalisme   ,  pop  आर्ट  and Fluxus .
Dada is the  groundwork  to abstract art  और   ध्वनि   काव्य   ,  a starting point for performance art , a prelude  to  postmodernism  ,  an influence on pop art  ,   a  celebration of antiart to be later embraced for  anarcho-political  uses in the 1960s and the  गति  that  lay  the  न्यास   लिये  Surrealism .
पहला   trophic  level  .
The  पौधे  in this image  ,  and the algae  और  phytoplankton in the lake  ,   हैं  primary producers  .
They take nutrients from the soil or the water , and manufacture their own food by  photosynthesis  , using  उर्जा  from  the  sun .
The  trophic  level  of  an organism  is  the position  it   occupies   in  a food  कड़ी  .
The  शब्द   trophic   गर्भाशयी  from the Greek τροφή  (  trophē ) referring to food  or  feeding .
a  food chain  represents  a  उत्तराधिकार  of organisms  कि   खा  another  सजीव  and are  ,  in turn ,  खाया  themselves .
The number of steps  an  organism  is  from  the  start of  the  chain is a measure of its trophic level .
Food  जंजीरों   प्रारंभ  at trophic level 1  साथ  primary producers such as plants , move to herbivores  at  level 2 , predators at  स्तर   3  and typically  समाप्त   साथ  carnivores or apex predators at level 4  or  5 .
The path  साथ  the chain  can  form  either   a  one-way  प्रवाह  ,  or  a food  ``  web  .  ''
Ecological communities with higher biodiversity form more  जटिल  trophic paths  .
Four of the most important domesticated silk  शलभ   .
Top to bottom : Bombyx mori , Hyalophora cecropia  ,  Antheraea pernyi , Samia cynthia .
From Meyers Konversations-Lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
A silk-producing raspy  क्रिकेट  .
Silk  is   a  natural protein fibre ,  कुछ  forms of which can  be   woven  into  वस्त्र  .
the  protein fibre  of   रेशा  is  रचित  mainly of fibroin and produced by certain  कीट  larvae to form cocoons  .
The best-known type  of  silk is obtained from the cocoons of the larvae  of   the  mulberry silkworm  bombyx   mori   reared   in  captivity ( sericulture ) .
The  shimmering  appearance  of  silk is due  to  the  triangular   प्रिज़्म   -like  structure of  the  silk fibre ,  जिससे  allows  रेशा   cloth   to   refract  incoming light at  अलग  angles  ,   यूँ  producing different  रंगों  .
Silks  हैं   उत्पादित  by several  अन्य   कीट  , but generally  तभी  the silk of moth  caterpillars  has been used for textile manufacturing .
वहीँ  has been  कुछ  research into other silks , which differ at  the   आणविक  level .
अनेक  silks are mainly produced by the larvae of insects  undergoing  complete metamorphosis , but some adult insects such  as  webspinners produce silk ,  और   कुछ  insects such  as   raspy  crickets produce silk throughout their lives  .
रेशा   उत्पादन  also occurs  in  Hymenoptera  (  bees ,  wasps  , and ants ) , silverfish ,  mayflies  , thrips ,  leafhoppers   ,  beetles , lacewings , fleas  ,  flies and  midges   .
Other types  of   सन्धिपाद  produce  रेशा   ,  most  notably  various arachnids such  as   मकड़ियों  ( see spider silk  )  .
लेट  Show with  दाउद  Letterman  is   an  American late-night talk  दिखाएँ  hosted  by  David Letterman on CBS  .
The  दिखाएँ  debuted on  अगस्त  30  ,   1993  , and is  उत्पादित  by  लेटरमैन   's  production company ,  विश्वव्यापी   पैंट  Incorporated .
the  show 's music  निदेशक  and  band-leader  of the  हाउस  band  ,   the  CBS  ऑर्केस्ट्रा  ,  is   पॉल  Shaffer .
the  head writer is Matt Roberts  और  the  उद्घोषक  is  एलन   kalter  .
Of the  प्रमुख   u.S.  late-night  कार्यक्रम  , Late  दिखाएँ   बाँधने   दूसरी  in cumulative average viewers over  समय  and third in number of episodes  over  time .
The  दिखाएँ   लीड  other late night shows in ad revenue with  $  271 million in 2009  .
In  सबसे  U.S. markets the  दिखाएँ   airs  at  11:35   p.m.  Eastern/Pacific  समय  , but  is   अंकित  Monday  through  Wednesday  at  4:30 p.m. ,  और   गुरुवार   at  3:30 p.m and 6:00  p.m   .
The second Thursday episode usually  airs  on Friday of that week .
In  2002  , Late  दिखाएँ   साथ   दाउद  Letterman was ranked No . 7 on TV Guide  's   50  Greatest  tv  Shows of All Time  .
CBS has a contract with Worldwide Pants to continue  the   दिखाएँ  through 2014 ; by then  ,  Letterman will surpass Johnny  कार्सन  as the longest tenured late-night  बात   दिखाएँ  host  .
The Real Housewives  of   नारंगी   काउंटी   is  an American  वास्तविकता  documentary  टेलीविज़न  program on  ब्रावो  , set  in  Orange County , California  .
it  was the first The  रियल  Housewives program in the series .
the   श्रेणी   is  a voyeuristic  dekh  into the wealthy lives of these housewives ,  as  they  दूकान   ,   मिलेंगी  plastic surgery ,  गपशप  , fight  और  live  lavishly  .
The  वित्तीय  crisis ,  the   शुरूआत  of  जिससे  coincided almost  exactly   साथ  the first  ऋतु   's  broadcast ,  रै  since trimmed  the  housewives  '   lifestyles   साथ  job losses  ,  evictions  ,  mortgage defaults ,  foreclosures  ,  और  marital stress—all recorded  in   प्रगतिशील   सीज़न  of the show .
Cyberstalking is the use  of   the   अंतरजाल  or  अन्य  electronic means  to  stalk or  harass  an individual  ,  a group of  individuals  , or an organization .
It may include the making of false accusations  or   कथन  of  फैक्ट  (  as  in defamation ) , monitoring , making  खतरे   ,  identity theft  ,   क्षति  to data or  उपकरण  , the solicitation  of   नाबालिग  for sex ,  or  gathering  सूचना  that may be used to harass  .
The definition of `` harassment ''  जरूर  meet  the  criterion that a reasonable person , in  कब्ज़ा  of the  वही  information  ,  would regard  it  as sufficient to  कारण   another   उचित  person distress .
Cyberstalking is different from spatial  or  offline stalking in that  it   occurs   through  the use  of  electronic communications technology  ऐसे  as the  अंतरजाल  .
however  , it sometimes leads to  it  , or  is  accompanied by  it  .
Both are criminal  offenses  .
Cyberstalking shares  महत्वपूर्ण  characteristics with offline stalking .
अनेक  stalkers – online or  बंद  – are motivated  by   a  desire  to  control  उनके  victims .
a  cyberstalker may be  an  online stranger or a person  जिसको   the   निशाना   knows  .
A cyberstalker may be anonymous and may solicit involvement of other  लोगों  online  जो  do not  भी  know the target .
Cyberstalking is  a  criminal  ठोकर  that  आता  into  खेल   अंतर्गत  state anti-stalking  कानून   ,   बदनामी  laws , and  उत्पीड़न   कानून  .
a  cyberstalking  conviction  can result in a restraining order ,  परिवीक्षा   ,   or  even criminal  दंड  against  the  assailant ,  सहित  jail  .
A business letter  is  usually  प्रयुक्त   जब  writing from one company to  another  , or for  पत्राचार  between such organizations  और  their customers , clients  और   अन्य  external  पार्टियों   .
The overall style  of   अक्षर   होगा   निर्भर   on  the relationship between  the   पार्टियों   चिंतित  .
वहीँ  are many  कारण  to write a business letter .
It could  be  to request direct  सूचना  or  कार्रवाई  from another  पार्टी  ,  to  order supplies from a supplier , to identify a mistake that was  वचनबद्ध   ,  to reply directly to  a   निवेदन  ,  to  apologize for a wrong  or  simply to  convey  goodwill  .
Even today , the business  अक्षर  is  स्टिल   बहुत   उपयोगी  because  it   produces  a permanent record  ,  is confidential  ,  formal and  delivers  persuasive , well-considered messages  .
Tilapia  (  )  is  the common name for nearly a hundred species  of  cichlid fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe .
tilapia  are mainly freshwater fish , inhabiting shallow  स्ट्रीम  , ponds  ,  rivers and lakes  ,  and less commonly found living in brackish water .
Historically , they  have   महरूम  of major importance in artisan fishing  in   अफ़्रीकी  and  the  Levant ,  और  are of increasing importance in aquaculture .
Tilapia  can  become problematic invasive species in  नई  warm-water  habitats   ,   whether   deliberately  or accidentally introduced , but  generally  not  in  temperate climates due to their inability to survive in cooler  waters   नीचे   परिचय   .
Turner & Hooch is a  1989   कॉमेडी  drama  अपराधों   फिल्मी  starring Tom  हैंक्स  and Beasley the Dog as the eponymous  वर्ण  , Turner  और  Hooch  क्रमशः  .
The film  भी   सितारों  Mare Winningham  ,  Craig T. Nelson , and Reginald VelJohnson  .
It was directed by Roger  spottiswoode  ; the film was originally  slated  to be directed  by  Henry Winkler , but he was terminated due to  ``  creative differences  ''  .
It was  co-written  by  माइकल   blodgett  from  परे  the Valley of the Dolls  कीर्ति  .
Although K-9 ( with James  belushi   )   थी   released   prior  to  इस  film  (  exactly  तीन  months earlier )  ,  Turner & Hooch became more popular  और  seemingly  निष्प्रभ   इसके  greater success , even  हालांकि  K-9 had a very  समान   प्लाट   .
A pilot for a  टर्नर  &  hooch  TV  श्रेणी  was  बना   और  ran  as  a part of The Magical World of Disney  .
This  is  a  सूची  of Israeli airports  ,   sorted   by  location .
Entrance  to  Ovda  विमानक्षेत्र
Terminal  3  at  बेन  Gurion
Plane landing at Be'er Sheva ( Teyman  )
Eilat Airport
Adolf Hitler ( ; 20 April 1889 – 30 April  1945  ) was an Austrian  -born  German politician and the leader  of  the  नाजी  Party (  (   nsdap   )  ;  नेशनल  Socialist  जर्मनी  Workers Party ) .
He was chancellor  of   जर्मनी  from  1933  to 1945 and dictator of Nazi  जर्मनी  ( as  führer   und  Reichskanzler  )  from 1934 to 1945 .
Hitler was at the centre  of  Nazi Germany  ,  World War  ii  in Europe , and the Holocaust .
हिटलर  was a  सजा  veteran of World War I .
He joined the German Workers ' Party ( precursor of the NSDAP  )  in 1919 ,  और  became  नेता   of  the  nsdap  in  1921  .
in  1923 , he attempted a coup  d'état  in  म्यूनिख  , known as the Beer Hall Putsch .
the  failed coup  resulted  in Hitler 's imprisonment ,  दौरान  which  समय  he wrote his memoir  ,   mein  Kampf  (  My  संघर्ष   )  .
After his release in 1924 ,  हिटलर  gained popular support  by  attacking  the  Treaty of Versailles and  promoting  Pan-Germanism , antisemitism , and  anti-communism  with  charismatic  oratory and Nazi propaganda .
After his appointment as chancellor in 1933  ,  he transformed the Weimar Republic into the Third Reich , a single-party dictatorship based on the  अधिनायकवादी  and autocratic  विचारधारा  of Nazism .
Hitler 's aim was to  स्थापित  a New Order of absolute Nazi German hegemony in continental  यूरोपीय  .
To this end , his  विदेशी  and domestic policies had the  उद्देश्य   of   seizing  Lebensraum ( ``  जीना  space '' ) for the  germanic   लोगों  .
He  निर्देशित   the  rearmament of Germany and the invasion of  कैंडल  by the  wehrmacht  in September  1939   ,  resulting in the outbreak of World  युद्ध   ii  in  यूरोपीय  .
Under  हिटलर  's rule , in  1941  German  शक्तियां  and their  यूरोपीय  allies occupied most of Europe and  उत्तर   अफ़्रीकी  .
In  1943  , Germany had  महरूम  forced onto the defensive and suffered a series of escalating defeats  .
In the  फाइनल   दिनों  of  the  war , during the  बैटल  of Berlin  in  1945 ,  हिटलर  married  उसके  long-time partner ,  एवा   braun   .
on   30  April 1945 , less  than   दो   दिनों  later , the two  वचनबद्ध  suicide  to   avoid  capture by the Red  फौज   ,  and their corpses  यहूद   burned  .
हिटलर  's  आक्रामक  foreign  नीति   is  considered the main cause of the  outbreak   of  World  युद्ध  II in Europe .
His  antisemitic  policies  और  racially  प्रेरित  ideology resulted  in  the deaths of  at   तनिक  5.5 million Jews , and  लाखो  of other  लोगों  deemed  racially  inferior .
thumb
a  domain name is an  पहचान  string that defines a  फ्रेम  of  प्रशासनिक   स्वायत्तता  , authority , or control on  the  Internet .
डोमेन  names  हैं  formed  by  the rules  और  procedures of the  डोमेन  Name System ( DNS ) .
technically  ,  कोई   नाम   पंजीकृत  in the DNS is a domain name  .
Domain names are  प्रयुक्त  in  विभिन्न   नेटवर्किंग  contexts  और   application-specific   नामकरण  and addressing purposes .
In  सामान्य  ,  a  domain name represents an  अंतरजाल   प्रोटोकॉल  ( IP ) resource  ,  such  as   a  personal computer used  to  access the Internet ,  a  server computer hosting  a  web site , or the  वेब  site  itself  or any other service  communicated  via the Internet .
Domain names are organized in subordinate levels (  subdomains  ) of the DNS  रूट  domain , which is nameless .
The  first-level  set of domain names  हैं  the top-level domains  (   tlds  ) , including the  जेनेरिक  top-level domains ( gTLDs )  ,   ऐसे   as  the prominent domains  com   ,  info , net and org , and the country  कोड   top-level  domains  (   cctlds  ) .
Below these  top-level  domains in the DNS hierarchy  हैं  the second-level and  third-level  domain names that  हैं  typically open  लिये  reservation by end-users who wish  to   कनेक्ट  local  क्षेत्रफल  networks to the Internet  ,  create  अन्य   सरेआम  accessible Internet resources  or   चलाएं  web sites .
the  registration  of  these domain names is usually administered  by  domain name registrars who sell their services to the public .
A fully qualified domain name (  fqdn  ) is a  डोमेन  name that is completely  निर्दिष्ट   in  the  पदानुक्रम  of the  डीएनएस  , having no  omitted   भाग  .
Domain  names  are  प्रायः  written  in   लोअरकेस  , although labels  in   the  Domain  नाम  System  हैं   case-insensitive  .
Nitrate is a  polyatomic  ion  साथ  the molecular formula  no3−   और   a  molecular mass of 62.0049 g/mol  .   nitrates   भी  describe the organic functional  समूह   rono2  .
These nitrate esters are  a   specialized   क्लास   of  explosives .
A  गेहूं  harvest in  idaho
This photo from a  1921  encyclopedia shows a tractor ploughing  a   क्रॉप   फ़ील्ड   .
Agriculture  is   a   प्रमुख  industry in  the  United States and the country  is  a net  निर्यातक   of  food .
As of the  पिछला  census of agriculture in  2007   ,  there were 2.2  लाख  farms , covering an area  of   ,  an average of per  फार्म   .
हालांकि   agricultural  activity occurs in most states  ,   it   is   विशेषकर  concentrated  in  the vast expanse of  चपटा   ,  arable land  ज्ञात   as   the  Great Plains  ,  which  encompasses  the  सेंट्रल  region of  the  nation .
The Mpemba effect , named after  tanzanian  student Erasto Mpemba , is  the  assertion  कि  warmer water can freeze faster  than   colder   जल   .
Although there  is  anecdotal  support  for the  प्रभाव  ,  वहीँ  is no agreement on exactly what  the  effect  is  and  अंतर्गत  what circumstances it  occurs  .
वहीँ  have been reports  of   समान  phenomena since ancient times  ,  although with insufficient  विवरण  for the claims to be replicated .
The phenomenon seems contrary  to  thermodynamics , but  a  number of possible explanations  लिये  the effect have been proposed .
Further investigations will  need   to  decide on  a  precise definition of  ``  freezing '' and  कंट्रोल  a vast number of starting parameters in order to confirm or  बताइये  the effect .
The Siamese ( , )  is   एक  of the first distinctly recognized breeds of Oriental cat .
The breed  originated  in Thailand ( formerly known as  सियाम  )  ,   जहाँ  they are  एक   of  several native breeds  और   हैं  called Wichian  mat  (  วิเชียรมาศ  , a name  अर्थ   ``  moon  डायमंड  '' ) .
In  the  20th  सदी   the  Siamese cat became one of the  सबसे  popular  breeds   in   यूरोपीय   और   उत्तर   अमेरिका  .
Quality Food  centers  ( QFC ) is a supermarket chain based in Bellevue , Washington  ,  with  64  stores in the  puget   ध्वनि  region of Washington state and in the Portland , Oregon metropolitan area .
In economics , the money supply  or  money  भण्डार  , is the  कुल  amount  of  monetary assets available in an economy  at   a  specific  समय  .
वहीँ   हैं  several  तरीके  to define `` money  ,  ''  लकिन   मानक  measures  प्रायः  include  करेंसी  in circulation and demand deposits (  जमाकर्ताओं  ' easily  पहुँचा  assets  on  the books of  वित्तीय   संस्थानों   )   .
Money supply data  हैं  recorded and  प्रकाशित   ,  usually  by   the  government or the  सेंट्रल  bank of the country .
Public and private sector  विश्लेषकों  have long  monitored   परिवर्तन  in money supply  क्युकी  of its effects  on  the price  स्तर  , inflation ,  the  exchange rate  और  the business cycle .
That  संबंध   between  money and  कीमतें  is historically associated with  the  quantity theory of money .
There is strong empirical  प्रमाण  of a  सीधा  relation between money-supply growth and  long-term  price inflation , at least  लिये  rapid increases in  the  amount of money in the economy .
कि   is  , a country such  as  Zimbabwe  जिससे  saw  रैपिड  increases in its  धन  supply also  देखी  rapid  increases   in  prices ( hyperinflation  )  .
This is one reason  लिये   the  reliance on monetary policy  as   a  means of controlling inflation .
The nature of this causal  कड़ी  is the subject of  contention  .
Some  शास्त  economists  argue   कि  the  धन  supply is endogenous ( determined by the workings  of  the  अर्थव्यवस्था   ,  not by the  सेंट्रल   बैंको  ) and that the sources of inflation must be found in  the  distributional structure of  the  economy .
In addition , those economists seeing the central bank 's control over  the  money  सप्लाई  as feeble say  कि  there  हैं  two weak links  between  the  विकास  of the money supply and  the  inflation rate .
First  ,   in  the aftermath of a recession , when  अनेक   संसाधन  are underutilized , an increase in  the   धन  supply can cause a sustained  बढ़ाएँ  in real production instead of inflation  .
Second , if  the  velocity  of  money  ,   i.e.  , the  अनुपात   between  nominal GDP  और  money supply , changes ,  an   बढ़ाएँ   in   the  money supply could have  either  no effect , an  अतिरंजित  effect ,  or  an  मनमौजी  effect on  the   विकास  of  नाममात्र  GDP .
Logo  लिये  IMAX .
वारेन   थिएटर   imax  cinema  ,  Wichita , Kansas , USA ,  601  seats .
a   तुलना  between 35  mm   और   15/70  mm negative  क्षेत्रों  .
IMAX ( an abbreviation for  चित्र  Maximum ) is a motion picture  फिल्मी  format and a set of cinema  प्रक्षेप  standards created by the Canadian  कम्पनी  IMAX Corporation  .
IMAX  रै  the  क्षमता   to  record  और   प्रदर्शक  images of  दूर   वृहद  size and resolution than  conventional  film  प्रणालियों  .
Since 2002 ,  कुछ  feature films  have   महरूम  converted  (  or upgraded )  into  IMAX format for display in  imax  theatres and some have also  महरूम   partially  shot in IMAX .
imax   is  the most widely used system  लिये  special-venue film presentations .
, there  हैं  697 IMAX theatres in 52 countries .
Today  's  Special  is   a  Canadian children 's  टेलीविज़न   दिखाएँ   उत्पादित  by Clive  vanderburgh  at  tvontario   इससे  1981 to 1987  .
it  also ran on Nickelodeon and  the  Faith and Values  channel/odyssey  ( now the Hallmark Channel  )  as well as many PBS stations throughout the  संयुक्त  States  .
it  was set in a  विभाग  store ,  आधारित  on the  फ्लैगशिप  location  of  the now  defunct   सिम्पसन   's  in Toronto  .
Many sequences  लिये   it  were shot at  the  Queen  गली  West and  yonge  Street store after hours  .
संविधानवाद   ,  in its most general meaning , is `` a  जटिल  of ideas  ,  attitudes  ,  and patterns  of  behavior elaborating the principle  कि  the  प्राधिकार  of government derives  इससे  and is limited by a  देह  of  आधारभूत   विधि  ''  .
A political organization is  संवैधानिक  to the  extent   कि  it  ``   contain  [ s ] institutionalized  mechanisms   of   शक्ति  control for the  सुरक्षा  of the interests and liberties of the citizenry ,  सहित  those that may be in  the  minority `` .
As described  by  political scientist and constitutional scholar David  fellman   :
An ice-cream headache ,  भी  known as brain freeze  ,   cold-stimulus  headache  ,  or  इसके  given  वैज्ञानिक  name sphenopalatine  ganglioneuralgia   (  meaning `` nerve pain  of  the sphenopalatine ganglion `` ) , is  a   रूप   of  brief cranial  पीड़ा   or  headache commonly associated with  खपत  ( particularly  जल्दी  consumption ) of  ठंडा  beverages  or   भोजन  such  as  ice cream and  बर्फ  pops .
It is  caused  by having something cold touch the roof of  the  mouth (  तालु  ) , and is believed  to  result from  a   तंत्रिका  response causing rapid constriction and swelling of blood  बरतन   or   a  ``  referring   ``  of pain from the  छत  of the  मुँह  to  the  head .
The  रेट  of intake for cold foods  रै   महरूम   पढ़ाई  as  a   contributing  factor  .
There are  लोगों  who  can   नहीं  experience `` brain freeze  ''   or  similar symptoms .
The  पद   ice-cream  headache has  महरूम  in  उपयोग  since at least 31 January  1937  , contained  in  a  जर्नल   प्रविष्टि   by  Rebecca Timbres  प्रकाशित  in the 1939 book We did n't  पूछो  Utopia : a Quaker family in Soviet  रूस  .
The first  प्रकाशित  use of the  पद  brain freeze  ,   as  it pertains  to  cold-induced headaches , was on  27  May 1991  .
``  Auld Lang Syne ''  (  : note `` s '' rather than `` z  ''   )  is a Scots poem written by Robert  burns  in 1788 and set to the  धुन  of  a  traditional folk  सोंग  (  roud  #  6294   )  .
It is well known in many countries , especially in  the   english-speaking  world ; its traditional  उपयोग   होने   to  celebrate  the  start of the  नई   साल   at  the stroke  of   मध्यरात्रि   .
by  extension  ,  it is also  सुंग  at funerals , graduations and as a  विदाई  or ending to other occasions .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Boy Scout  युवावस्था  movement  ,  in many countries  ,   उपयोग   it  as a close to  jamborees   और  other  कृत्यों  .
The song 's  स्कॉट्स  title may be  अनूदित   into   अंग्रेज़ी   वस्तुतः   as  ``  बूढ़ा  long  चूंकि  ''  ,  or  अधिक   idiomatically  , `` long long ago  ''  , `` days  गए  by '' or `` old  टाइम्स   ''   .
Consequently ``  लिये  auld  लैंग   syne   ''  ,  as  it  appears  in the  पहला  line of  the  chorus , might be  loosely  translated  as  ``  लिये  ( the sake  of  ) old  टाइम्स  '' .
The  phrase  `` Auld  लैंग   syne  '' is  भी   प्रयुक्त  in  समान  poems by  रॉबर्ट  Ayton  (  1570–1638 ) ,  allan  Ramsay  (   1686–1757  ) ,  और  James Watson ( 1711  )  as  खूब  as  पुरानी  folk  गीतों   predating   burns  .
मैथ्यू  Fitt uses  the  phrase `` In the days of  auld   लैंग  syne  ''  as  the  equivalent  of   ``  Once  upon  a time ...
`` in  उसके  retelling  of  fairy tales in  the  Scots  भाषा  .
Ben Schulz , player  of   leeroy   जेनकींस  at BlizzCon 2007
leeroy  Jenkins  ,  sometimes  misspelled  Leroy Jenkins and often elongated  साथ  numerous additional letters ,  is  an Internet  मीम  named  लिये  a player character  निर्मित  by Ben Schulz in Blizzard Entertainment 's  mmorpg  , World  of  Warcraft .
the  character  became   लोकप्रिय  due  to  a video of the game that  परिचालित  around  the  Internet  .
The  घटना  has  चूंकि  spread  परे   the  boundaries  of  the  गेमिंग  community  into  other online and mainstream  मीडिया   .
ऑस्कर  Grant  थी   fatally  shot by  बार्ट   पुलिस  officer  योहानेस  Mehserle in  ओकलैंड   ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , United States , in the early morning hours of New Year 's Day 2009 .
Responding to reports of  a   लड़ो   on   a  crowded Bay  क्षेत्रफल  Rapid  पारगमन  train  returning  from  सैन  Francisco  ,   बार्ट  Police officers detained Oscar Grant and several other passengers on the  मंच  at the  fruitvale  BART Station .
Officer Johannes Mehserle and  another  officer  यहूद  restraining Grant ,  जो   थी  prostrate  और   allegedly  resisting arrest .
Officer Mehserle stood and  ,  according  to  witnesses , said : `` Get back ,  i  'm  gon  na tase him . ''
तब  Mehserle drew his gun and shot Grant once  in  the  वापस  ; Mehserle appeared stunned , put  उसके   हैंड्स  to his head and exclaimed , `` Oh , my God !  ''
दौरान   उसके  court  गवाही   ,  Mehserle said that Grant then exclaimed , `` You shot me !  ''
Grant  turned   आउट   to  be  निहत्थे   ;  he  थी  pronounced  मुर्दे  the next morning at Highland Hospital in Oakland .
The events were  captured   on  multiple digital video  और  cell phone  कैमरे  .
The  फुटेज   थी   disseminated  to media outlets and to various websites , where it was watched millions  of  times  .
The following  दिनों   देखी  both peaceful  और   हिंसक  protests  .
the   शूटिंग   रै  been  variously  labeled an involuntary  manslaughter   और   a  summary execution  .
on  January 13 , Alameda  काउंटी  prosecutors  चार्ज  Mehserle with murder for  the  shooting .
he  resigned his position  और  pleaded not guilty .
the  trial began  on  June 10 ,  2010   .
Michael Rains , Mehserle  's  criminal defense attorney , argued that Mehserle mistakenly shot Grant with his pistol  ,  intending to use his  तासीर  when  he   देखी   ग्रान्ट  reaching for his waistband  .
pretrial   filings  argue that  उसके  client  किया  not commit first-degree murder and asked a Los  एंजिल्स  judge to instruct the  जूरी   to  limit its deliberations to either second-degree murder  or  acquittal .
Oakland civil rights attorney  जॉन   burris   दायर   a   $   25  million  wrongful   मौत  claim  विरूद्ध   बार्ट  on behalf of Grant  's  family  .
On July 8  ,  2010 , the  जूरी  returned its verdict : Mehserle  थी   मिला  guilty  of   involuntary   manslaughter  and not guilty of second-degree murder and  voluntary   manslaughter  .
Initial protests against the ruling were peacefully organized ; looting ,  आगजनी  , destruction of  प्रॉपर्टी   ,  and small riots  broke  out after dark .
nearly   80  people  यहूद  eventually arrested .
on  Friday  ,  July 9 , 2010  ,  the U.S. Justice  विभाग  opened a civil rights case against Mehserle ; the federal government  can  prosecute him independently for the  वही  act  अंतर्गत  the separate  अधिपति   एक्सेप्शन  to  दोगुना  jeopardy .
the  Department of Justice will be working  साथ  the U.S. Attorney  's  office  in  San Francisco  और  the FBI  .
On  नवम्बर  5 , 2010 ,  mehserle   थी  sentenced to two years ,  ऋण  time served .
He served his  समय  in  the   लॉस   एंजिल्स  County Jail , occupying a private cell away from other prisoners  .
He was released on June 13 , 2011  और  is now on parole .
प्रमुख  representatives  of   the  Harlem  पुनर्जागरण  .
The  हार्लेम   पुनर्जागरण   थी  a cultural movement that spanned the 1920s .
At the  समय   ,  it  थी  known  as  the `` New  नीग्रो  Movement '' , named after the  1925  anthology by  alain   locke  .
Though it  थी  centered in  the  Harlem neighborhood  of  New York City , many French-speaking black  लेखक   इससे   अफ़्रीकी  and  caribbean  colonies who  जिया   in   पेरिस  were also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance  .
The Harlem Renaissance is unofficially recognized to have  spanned  from about  1919  until the early or mid-1930s .
Many of  इसके   विचार  lived on much longer .
The  zenith  of this ``  flowering  of  नीग्रो   साहित्य  '' , as James Weldon  जॉनसन  preferred to call the Harlem Renaissance , was placed between 1924 ( the year that  अवसर   :  A Journal  of  Negro Life hosted a  पार्टी   लिये  black writers where  अनेक  white  प्रकाशक  were in attendance ) and  1929   (   the  year of the stock  मार्केट  crash  और  the  शुरूआत   of  the Great Depression )  .
African States between  500  BCE and 1500 CE
obelisk  at temple of Luxor , Egypt .
c. 1200  bce   .
African knight of Baguirmi in  पूरा  padded  armour  suit .
The  इतिहास  of Africa begins  साथ  the prehistory  of  Africa  और   the  emergence  of   होमो  sapiens in East Africa , continuing into the present as a patchwork of diverse  और  politically  विकासशील   स्वदेश   राज्य  .
Some early evidence of agriculture in Africa dates from 16,000 BCE  ,  and metallurgy  इससे  about  4000   bce   .
the   अंकित  history of  जल्दी  civilization arose in Egypt , and later in Nubia  ,   the  Maghreb and the Horn of  अफ़्रीकी  .
During the Middle Ages , Islam spread  through  the regions .
Crossing the Maghreb and the Sahel ,  a  major center  of  Muslim culture was Timbuktu .
Some notable  pre-colonial  states and societies in Africa include the Nok culture , Mali  साम्राज्य  , Ashanti Empire  ,  Kingdom  of  Mapungubwe , Kingdom of Sine  ,  Kingdom  of  Saloum , Kingdom of Baol  ,   किंगडम  of Zimbabwe , Kingdom of Kongo  ,  Ancient Carthage ,  numidia  ,  mauretania  , the  अकसूमी  Empire , the Ajuuraan  राज्य  and the Adal  सल्तनत   .
From  the   लेट  15th  सदी   ,  Europeans and  arabs  took slaves from West  ,  Central and Southeast Africa overseas  in  the  अफ़्रीकी   स्लेव  trade .
European colonization of  अफ़्रीकी  developed rapidly  in  the  हाथापाई  for  अफ़्रीकी  of the  लेट  19th  और  early 20th centuries .
Following  struggles   लिये  independence in many parts  of  the continent  ,  as  खूब   as   a  weakened  यूरोपीय  after the Second World War  ;  decolonization took  प्लेस  .
Africa 's history has been challenging  लिये  researchers in the field of African studies  क्युकी  of the  किल्लत   of   लिखा  sources in large parts of  sub-saharan   अफ़्रीकी  .
Scholarly techniques  ऐसे   as  the recording of oral history ,  ऐतिहासिक  linguistics  ,  archaeology  और  genetics have been crucial .
curry  Foley was the first player  in   प्रमुख  League Baseball history to hit  लिये  the  साईकिल  .
In  बेसबॉल  , hitting  लिये  the  साईकिल  is the accomplishment of one batter hitting a  सिंगल  , a double , a triple  ,  and a  घर   चलाएं   in  the same game .
Collecting the hits  in   कि  order is  ज्ञात  as a `` natural  साईकिल  '' .
Cycles are  uncommon  in Major League  बेसबॉल  ( MLB ) , and have  occurred  294 times since  the   पहला  by Curry Foley in 1882 .
The cycle is roughly as  आम   as  a  no-hitter   (   279  occurrences  in  MLB history  )   ;  it has been called `` one of  the  rarest '' and  ``  most  मुश्किल  feats ''  in  baseball .
Based on 2009 offensive levels , the probability of an average  एमएलबी  player  hitting  for  a  cycle against an  औसत  team in a game  is  approximately 0.00590 % ; this corresponds  to  about 2.5  चक्र  in a 162-game  ऋतु  with  30  teams .
In other baseball leagues , the cycle is  हासिल   कम  frequently  .
Through September 4  ,   2008  ,  62   खिलाड़ी   in  Nippon  पेशेवर  Baseball ( NPB ) , the top-level baseball organization  in  Japan , have hit for the cycle  ,  the most recent being Michihiro  ogasawara  .
दो   खिलाड़ी  have  hit  for  the  cycle on the same  दिन  once in  npb  history ; this has occurred twice in MLB history .
One  npb  player has  भी  hit for the cycle in an  npb   all-star  game .
No  खिलाड़ी  has ever  hit   लिये   the  cycle in the MLB  all-star   खेल  or  the   postseason  .
The main slave routes in  मध्यकालीन  Africa .
This article discusses systems , history , and effects of slavery  भीतर   अफ़्रीकी  .
See Arab  स्लेव  trade , Atlantic slave trade , Maafa , and  गुलामी  in  समकालीन  Africa  लिये  other discussions .
``  Slave  हस्तांतरण  in  अफ़्रीकी   ''  .
Europeans usually did  नहीं  enter the interior  regions  .
Slavery in  अफ़्रीकी  has existed throughout the continent for  अनेक   सदियां  ,  और   continues  in  the  current  दिन  .
Systems  of   servitude  and slavery were  आम  in  अनेक  parts of the  महाद्वीप  , as they  यहूद  in  much   of   the   प्राचीन   संसार  .
In most African  समाजों  where slavery was prevalent  ,  the  enslaved  people were  largely  treated as  indentured   बन्दों   और   नहीं  treated as  chattel  slaves .
जब  the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade  began  ,  अनेक  of  the   लोकल  slave systems changed and began supplying captives for slave  बाज़ार  outside of  अफ़्रीकी   .
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced  in  many different forms and some of  ये  do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery  elsewhere  in the world .
Debt slavery , enslavement  of  war captives , military slavery ,  और   दण्ड   गुलामी   यहूद  all practiced in  विभिन्न  parts of Africa  .
हालांकि  there had been some trans-Saharan  व्यापार   इससे   the  interior  of  Sub-Saharan  अफ़्रीकी  to other  regions  , slavery  थी  a small  भाग  of the economic  जीवन   of  many societies in  अफ़्रीकी  until the introduction of transcontinental  स्लेव  trades ( Arab  और  Atlantic  )  .
Slave practices were again transformed with  यूरोपीय   colonization  of Africa  और  the formal abolition  of  slavery  in  the early 1900s .
Windows  कार्य  Manager is a task manager  or  System  मॉनिटर  application  शामिल   साथ  the Microsoft Windows  nt  family of operating systems that provides limited information  परिचय  computer performance  और  running applications  ,  processes and  cpu  usage , commit charge and  मेमोरी  information ,  संजाल   कार्यकलाप  and  आंकडे   ,   logged-in  users ,  और   प्रणाली  services ( and  as   प्रायः  is the  मामला  with software  टूल्स   provided   by  Microsoft  लिये  Windows  ,  3rd party software is available  जिससे  fills the  आवश्यकताएँ  more  thoroughly  , e.g  ,   ``   प्रक्रम  Explorer '' , `` Extended Task Manager '' , ``  anvir  Task Manager '' , ``  प्रक्रम  Hacker ''  ,   और  ``  प्रणाली   एक्सप्लोरर   ''  ) .
The  कार्य   मैनेजर  can also be used  to  set  प्रक्रम  priorities , processor  अपनापन  , forcibly  terminate  processes , and shut down , restart  ,   hibernate   or  log  बंद  from  खिड़कियाँ   .
Windows Task  मैनेजर   थी  introduced with Windows  nt  4.0 .
Previous versions  of  Windows  nt  included the Task List  अनुप्रयोग  , which had  दूर   कम  features .
The  कार्य  list was  सक्षम   of  listing currently running processes and killing them , or  बनाना  a new process .
In Windows XP only  ,   a  Shutdown  मेनू  is  भी  present that allows access to Standby ,  hibernate   ,   फेरे  off , Restart ,  log   बंद   और   स्विच  User .
Earlier  संस्करण  of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ   3.x  , Windows 95 , Windows 98 ) had a  कार्यक्रम  known  as  tasks  to  display the programs currently running .
This file  थी  executed by running the  taskman.exe   संचिका   इससे   the  C : \Windows directory  .
The Troop is an American-Canadian live-action , single camera comedy -adventure television series about a trio of teenagers who fight and capture monsters  और  other supernatural phenomena  कि  invade the fictional  कस्बा  of Lakewood .
Created and executive produced by Max Burnett ,  ग्रेग   कूलिज  and Chris Morgan ,  the  series premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18  ,   2009  .
The  दूसरी  season premiered  on   जून  25  ,  2011 and  निकलोडियन  cancelled  the   श्रेणी  midway through it 's second season .
The remaining  एपीसोड   of  season 2 were aired on Nicktoons except the last 3..
Sparsely populated  in  relation to  इसके   क्षेत्रफल  , the  लोकतांत्रिक  Republic of the Congo (  drc  ) is  घर  to  a   विशाल  potential  of  natural resources and  खनिज  wealth ,  इसके   untapped  deposits of raw  खनिज   हैं  estimated to  be  worth  in   excess   of  US  $  24  खरब  , yet the economy of the DRC  रै   अस्वीकृत  drastically since  the  mid-1980s .
At  the   समय  of its  स्वतंत्रता  in 1960 , DRC  थी  the  दूसरी   सबसे  industrialized  देश  in Africa  बाद   दक्षिण  Africa ; it  boasted   a  thriving mining sector and its agriculture  सेक्टर   थी  relatively  उत्पादक  .
if  the  दर्शक  stares  at  this image for  20–60  seconds  और  stares at  a  white object , a  ऋणात्मक   afterimage  will appear ( in  इस  case , it will  be   क्यान  on magenta ) .
This can also be achieved  by   the   दर्शक  closing his/her eyes  और  tilting their head up .
An  afterimage  or ghost image or  चित्र   burn-in  is an optical illusion that refers to an image  continuing  to  appear  in  एक  's  दृष्टि  after the  एक्सपोज़र  to the original  चित्र  has  ceased  .
One of  the  most  आम  afterimages is the  उज्जवल  glow that seems to  फ्लैश  before one 's  आँखें  after looking into a  लाइट  source  लिये  a few seconds  .
closing  the eye  can  help  achieve  a better sense of the color in its own aspect  .
Afterimages come  in  two  फ़ॉर्म  , negative ( inverted ) and positive (  retaining  original  रंग  ) .
The process  पीछे  positive afterimages  is   अनजान   ,  though  विचार  to  be  related  to  neural adaptation  .
On  the  other hand , negative afterimages  हैं   a  retinal  घटना  and are well understood .
Lost is  an  American serial drama television  श्रेणी  that premiered  on   सितंबर   22   ,  2004 on  the  American Broadcasting Company ( ABC  )   .
the   श्रेणी  was created by J.  J.  Abrams and  डैमन  Lindelof , based  upon   an   असली  pilot  स्क्रिप्ट  titled  nowhere  written by Jeffrey Lieber .
Six seasons of the show  aired  , in addition to numerous clip shows to recap previous episodes  .
ABC  घोषित  that Lost would end after six seasons  ,  having produced  a   कुल   of  121 episodes .
The series follows the past  ,  present , and future experience  (  s  )  of the survivors  of  a  प्लेन  crash on  a  passenger jet , Oceanic  उड़ान  815 , flying from Sydney  to  Los Angeles  बाद  it crashes on  a   तीव्र   द्वीप  in the South  प्रशांत  .
The series also includes  कहानियां  of  the  lives of people already living on the island — they  शामिल  the  ``  Others `` , who initially antagonize the survivors  ,  as well as  a   समूह  of people who  arrive  on  the   freighter   kahana   .
प्रत्येक  episode typically features action on the  द्वीप  as well as a secondary storyline from another point in  a  character 's  जीवन  .
Season 6 features a  detailing  of  the  lives of the  survivors  in a  अलग  reality , as if  the   उड़ान  had never crashed .
in   the  following  सूची   ,  the term ``  प्रदर्शित  character  (  s ) '' refers to the  अक्षर   or  characters  जो  are featured in  the  secondary storyline of each  एपीसोड   .
`` No .
in  series ''  refers   to   the  episode 's  क्रमांक  in the overall  श्रेणी  , whereas `` No .
in season '' refers to the episode 's number  in  each particular season .
``  u.S.  viewers  (  million )  ''  refers to the number  of   अमेरिकी  in  लाखो  who watched  the  episode  सजीव  .
A total  of  121 episodes of Lost  यहूद  produced  ,   the   पिछला  of which aired  on  May 23 ,  2010  .
All seasons are available  on  DVD in Regions 1–4 and on Blu-ray in  regions  A and B .
Flat feet  (  also called pes planus or fallen arches )  is   a  formal reference to a  चिकित्सा  condition in which  the   मेहराब   of  the  पैर  collapses , with the entire sole of the  पैर   coming  into complete or near-complete  सम्पर्क  with the ground .
in  some  individuals  ( an estimated 20–30 % of the general  जनसांख्यिकी  ) the  मेहराब  simply never develops in  एक  foot  (   unilaterally  ) or both  फीट  (  bilaterally  )  .
Three  अध्ययन  ( see citations below in military section  )   of   सैन्य  recruits  have   दिखाया  no evidence  of  later increased  चोट  , or foot problems , due  to  flat feet  ,   in  a population of  लोगों   जो  reach military service age  बगैर  prior foot  समस्याएं   .
However ,  ये  studies can not be used to judge possible future damage from this  कंडीशन   जब  diagnosed at younger ages .
वे  also can  नहीं  be applied to persons whose  चपटा   फीट  are associated with foot symptoms  ,  or certain  लक्षण   in  other parts of  the  body  (  such as the leg  or  back ) possibly referable  to   the  foot .
Generation X ,  commonly  abbreviated  to  Gen  x  , is the generation  born   बाद  the Western post-World  युद्ध  II baby  बूम  .
Demographers  ,   इतिहासकारों   और   टीकाकारों  use  शुरूआत  birth dates from  the  early 1960s to the early 1980s .
The  पद  was popularized  by   डगलस   coupland  's 1991  अनोखा  Generation X : Tales for an  त्वरित  Culture  .
पहले  that , it had  महरूम  used for various subcultures or  countercultures   बाद  the  1950s   .
Pressure ulcers ,  भी  known  as   decubitus  ulcers  or  bedsores , are  स्थानीयकृत  injuries to the skin  and/or   underlying  tissue  प्रायः   over  a bony prominence , as a  परिणाम  of pressure  ,   or  pressure  in  combination  साथ  shear and/or  घर्षण  .
सबसे  commonly this will be the sacrum ,  coccyx   ,   एड़ियों  or the hips  ,  but other sites  ऐसे  as the elbows  ,  knees  ,   ankles  or the  वापस  of the cranium can  be   प्रभावित   .
the   कारण  of pressure  छाले  is pressure  लागू  to  नरम  tissue so that blood flow  to  the  नरम  tissue  is  completely or partially  obstructed   .
shear  is also  a  cause  ;   shear  pulls on  रक्त   बरतन  that  फीड  the skin .
Pressure ulcers most  commonly   develop   in  persons who  हैं   नहीं  moving about or  हैं  confined to  wheelchairs  .
it   is   widely  believed that  अन्य  factors can influence  the  tolerance of skin  लिये  pressure and  shear  thereby increasing  the  risk of pressure ulcer  विकास   .
These factors are protein-calorie malnutrition ,  microclimate  ( skin wetness caused  by  sweating  or  incontinence ) ,  रोगों   कि  reduce blood flow  to  the skin , such as arteriosclerosis or  रोगों  that reduce the  अहसास   in  the skin , such as paralysis or neuropathy .
the  healing  of   दबाव  ulcers may be  slowed  by  the  age of  the  person  ,  medical conditions  (  such as  arteriosclerosis  ,  मधुमेह  or infection )  ,  smoking or  medications  such  as  antiinflammatory drugs  .
Although  प्रायः  prevented and treatable  if  found early , pressure ulcers can be very difficult to prevent in  critically  ill  मरीजों   ,  frail  बड़ो  , wheelchair users ( especially  जहाँ  spinal injury is involved ) and terminally ill patients .
Primary prevention is to redistribute pressure by  turning  the patient  regularly   .
The benefit  of  turning  to  avoid further  sores  is  खूब   प्रलेखित   चूंकि  at least the 19th century .
In addition  to   turning  and  re-positioning  the patient  in  bed  or  wheelchair , eating  a   संतुलित  diet with  पर्याप्त  protein and  keeping   the  skin free from exposure to urine and  स्टूल  is very important .
The  व्यापकता  of pressure ulcers  in  hospital  जमावट  is high  ,  but improvements are being made .
According  to   the  2010 IPUP  (  International  दबाव   अल्सर   व्यापकता   सर्वेक्षण  ) conducted in Canada  ,  there  थी   a  significant  घटी   in  the overall facility-acquired prevalence  of  pressure ulcers from 2009-2010 .
Ulcers were  सबसे  commonly  पहचाना  at the sacral/coccyx ulcer  स्थान  ;  however  , heel ulcers were the  सबसे  common  facility-acquired  location  in  the  सर्वेक्षण  .
Overboard  is  a  1987  American romantic comedy film  अभिनीत  Goldie Hawn  और  Kurt Russell .
It was  निर्देशित   by   गैरी   मार्शल  , produced  by  Roddy  mcdowell  , and loosely inspired  by  the 1974 Italian film  swept  Away .
In  फेरे  , Overboard was  adapted   into  the 2006 South  कोरियाई  television series , Couple  or   ट्रबल   .
Green Bay  is   a  city in  और  the county seat  of  Brown  काउंटी   in  the  u.S.   राज्य   of   विस्कॉन्सिन  ,  स्तिथ  at  the  head of  ग्रीन  Bay ,  a  sub-basin of  झील   मिशिगन  , at the  मुँह  of the Fox  नदी  .
It has an elevation  of  above sea  स्तर  and is located  उत्तर  of Milwaukee .
The population was 104,057 at the  2010  census .
It is the third-largest city  in   the  state  of  Wisconsin  ,  after Milwaukee and Madison  .
It is also the  third-largest  city on the  वेस्ट  shore  of   झील   मिशिगन  , after Chicago and Milwaukee .
Green Bay is  घर  to the Green Bay  पैकर्स  of the National Football League  ,   बनाना  it by far the smallest metropolitan area in  the  USA to host a major  पेशेवर  sports franchise  .
ग्रीन  Bay  is   the  principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area , which covers Brown , Kewaunee  ,   और  Oconto Counties  और  had a combined population of  282,599  at the 2000 census .
Green Bay  is  an  औद्योगिक  city  साथ  several meatpacking  और   पेपर  plants  ,  and a port on  ग्रीन  Bay ,  an  arm of  झील  Michigan that  स्थानीय  call the Bay of  ग्रीन  Bay , to  avoid   conflating  it  साथ  the eponymous  नगर   .
It is home  to  the  नेशनल   रेलरोड   संग्रहालय  ; the  नेविली  Public Museum ,  साथ  exhibitions of art , history ,  और  science ; and  the  University of  wisconsin–green  Bay  .
luteinizing  hormone (  lh   ,   भी  known as  lutropin  and sometimes lutrophin )  is  a  हार्मोन  produced by  gonadotroph  cells in the anterior pituitary gland .
In females , an acute rise of LH (  ``  LH  surge  '' ) triggers ovulation  और  development of  the   कॉर्पस   luteum  .
In  males  , where LH  था   भी   महरूम  called interstitial  cell-stimulating   हार्मोन  ( ICSH ) , it stimulates  leydig   कोशिका  production of testosterone .
It  अधिनियमों  synergistically with FSH  .
सेलिना  Quintanilla-Pérez  (  April 16 , 1971 –  कूच   31   ,  1995 ) , known simply as Selena  ,  was an American singer-songwriter .
She  थी  named  the  ``  शीर्ष  Latin artist  of  the  '90s  '' and `` Best selling  लैटिन  artist of  the  decade '' by Billboard for  उसके  fourteen  top-ten  singles  in  the Top  लैटिन  Songs  चार्ट   ,  including  सात  number-one hits .
Selena  था  the most  कामयाब  singles of  1994  and 1995 , `` Amor Prohibido `` and ``  no  Me  queda  Más `` .
She was called  ``  The Queen of Tejano music `` and the  मैक्सिकन  equivalent of Madonna .
Selena released her first  एल्बम  , Selena y  लॉस  Dinos , at the age  of  twelve .
She  जीती  Female Vocalist of the Year at  the  1987  tejano  Music Awards and landed a recording  अनुबंध   साथ   emi  a few years later .
उसके  fame  grew  throughout the early 1990s  ,  especially  in  Spanish-speaking countries ,  और  she had begun recording in  अंग्रेज़ी   as  well .
सेलिना   थी   murdered   at   the   आयु  of  23  on  कूच  31 , 1995 by Yolanda  saldívar  , the former president of her fan club .
on  April 12 , 1995 , two weeks after her  मौत  ,  जार्ज  W. Bush , governor of Texas at  the  time ,  घोषित  her birthday  ``   सेलिना   दिन   ''  in Texas  .
Warner  भाईs.  produced Selena  ,   a   फिल्मी   आधारित   on   उसके   जीवन  starring Jennifer Lopez  ,  in 1997 .
Selena  's  life was also  the  basis of the  musical  Selena Forever  अभिनीत  Veronica Vazquez  as   सेलिना  .
In June 2006 Selena was commemorated with a life-sized bronze statue (  mirador  de  la  Flor  in  Corpus Christi , Texas )  और  a Selena  संग्रहालय   खोली  there .
She has sold over  60  million albums  विश्वव्यापी  , making her  एक  of  the   best-selling   कलाकारों  of all time .
She  is  also the only  मादा  artist  to  have  पाँच   एल्बम   in  U.S .  बिलबोर्ड  200 at the  वही  time .
German Stahlhelm from  संसार  War II
Insignia of the Bolivian  फौज   colorados  regiment , showing a Stahlhelm and two crossed bayonets
stahlhelm  ( plural ,  stahlhelme   )  is German  लिये   ``  steel helmet ''  .
The Imperial  जर्मनी  Army began  to   बदलें  the traditional  boiled-leather  Pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) with  the  Stahlhelm during World War I  in  1916 .
the   पद   stahlhelm  refers  दोनो  to a generic steel helmet  ,   और  more  specifically  to the distinctive ( and iconic )  जर्मनी   डिज़ाइन   .
the   stahlhelm  , with its distinctive `` coal scuttle `` shape ,  थी   an  instantly recognizable icon for  सैन्य  imagery and became a  आम  element  of  military propaganda on both sides ,  बस  like the  pickelhaube   पहले   it   .
Its  नाम  was also  प्रयुक्त  by the  stahlhelm   ,   a   अर्धसैनिक  nationalist  संगठन   स्थापित   at  the end  of  1918 .
Glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence ,  the  production and emission  of  light by a  जीना   सजीव
Chemiluminescence ,  is   the  emission  of  light  (  luminescence ) without emission of  ऊष्मा
स्फुरदीप्ति   ,   a  specific type  of   photoluminescence  related to fluorescence
Radioluminescence , production  of   संदीप्ति   in  a  सामग्री   by  the bombardment of  आयनकारी  radiation
glow   in  the  अंधेरा  Tour , a  2008  concert tour by Kanye West
Frankfurt Airport  serves   as   a  hub city  लिये  Lufthansa and  receives  flights from Star  गठबंधन  carriers  .
Airline hubs are airports ranked as large , medium  ,   छोटी   ,  and non-hubs as  एक  of the FAA airport categories which  हैं  re-evaluated every year based on number of commercial  यात्री  .
the  more  आम  but informal use for the phrase  एयरलाइन  hub is  an  airport that  an  airline uses  as  a transfer point to get  यात्री  to their intended  गंतव्य  .
It is  भाग   of  a hub and spoke model , where  travelers   चलती  between airports not served by  सीधा  flights change planes en  रूट  to their  गंतव्यों   .
This is as  opposed   to   the   पाइंट  to Point model .
अनेक  hubs of the airlines  हैं   भी  situated  at  airports in the  शहरों  of the  संबंधित   सिर   कार्यालयों  .
Some airlines  may  use  तभी  a  सिंगल  hub , while other airlines use multiple hubs .
hubs  are  प्रयुक्त  for both  यात्री  flights as  खूब  as cargo  फ़्लाइट  .
Many  एयरलाइंस  also  उपयोग   फ़ोकस   शहरों  ,  जिससे  function much the same as hubs .
Airlines may also  उपयोग  secondary hubs  ,   a   non-technical  term for  विशाल  focus cities  .
A hub  in  the middle of a  रूट  is more effective than at either  समाप्त  as  connecting  traffic  अधिक  easily fills the plane - passengers prefer a one-stop (  two-leg  )  रूट  over a  two-stop   (   three-leg  ) route  .
Hollow Lacedaemon .
Site of  the  Menelaion  ,  the shrine to Helen  और  Menelaus constructed anciently in the Bronze Age city that stood on  the  hill of  therapne  on the left  बैंको   of   the   eurotas  River overlooking the future site of Dorian  स्पार्टा  .
Across the valley the successive ridges  of   माउंट   taygetus  are in  प्रमाण   .
Sparta  (  Doric  यूनानी  : ;  अटारी   यूनानी  : ) , or  lacedaemon  ,  थी  a prominent city-state in  प्राचीन  Greece  ,  situated on  the   बैंको  of  the   eurotas   नदी  in Laconia ,  in  south-eastern  पेलोपोनीज़  .
It emerged  as  a political entity around  the  10th  सदी  BC  ,  when the invading Dorians subjugated  the  local  ,  non-Dorian population .
around  650 BC , it rose to  become  the dominant military land-power in ancient Greece .
दिए   इसके  military  pre-eminence  , Sparta was recognized  as   the   overall   नेता  of the  संयुक्त  Greek  शक्तियां  during the  greco-persian  Wars .
Between 431 and 404 BC ,  स्पार्टा   थी  the principal enemy of Athens  दौरान   the  Peloponnesian War , from which  it  emerged victorious , though at great cost .
Sparta 's defeat by Thebes in  the  Battle of Leuctra  in   371   bc   ended  Sparta 's prominent role  in   यूनानियों   .
However ,  it  maintained its political  स्वतंत्रता  until the Roman conquest of  यूनानियों   in   146  BC .
it   तब  underwent  a  long  काल  of decline , especially in the  मध्य  Ages , when many Spartans moved to live  in  Mystras .
Modern Sparta is the capital  of  the  यूनानी  regional unit of  laconia  and a center for  the   प्रसंस्करण   of  goods  ऐसे   as  citrus and olives .
स्पार्टा  was unique in ancient Greece  लिये   इसके  social  प्रणाली   और  constitution ,  जिससे  completely  केन्द्रित  on military  प्रशिक्षण  and excellence .
Its  निवासियों  were classified as Spartiates  (   spartan  citizens  ,   जो  enjoyed full  अधिकारों  ) , Mothakes (  non-spartan  free  मेन   उठाया  as  spartans  )  ,  Perioikoi ( freedmen ) , and Helots ( state-owned serfs  ,   enslaved  non-Spartan local population ) .
spartiates  underwent the rigorous agoge training and education  regimen   ,   और   spartan   phalanges  were widely considered  to  be among  the  best  in  battle .
Spartan  महिलाओं  enjoyed considerably more rights  और  equality to  मेन   than  elsewhere in  the  classical world .
Sparta was the  विषय  of fascination in its own  दिन  ,  as  well as in the West  following  the revival  of  classical learning .
This love  or  admiration  of  Sparta is known as  laconism  or Laconophilia .
Fantasy  फ़ुटबॉल   is  an interactive competition  in   जिससे   उपयोक्ता  compete against  प्रत्येक  other as general managers  of  virtual teams  .
The players that an individual is able to  मैनेज  are professional American  फ़ुटबॉल  players in  the  National Football  लीग  .
the  different actions people are able to make  हैं   drafting   ,   व्यापार  , adding or dropping  खिलाड़ी   ,  and  बदलना  rosters .
Due  to  the growth  of  the Internet , Fantasy football has  vastly  increased  in  popularity , particularly because Fantasy football providers such as ESPN , Yahoo ,  सीबीएस   ,  and the  एनएफएल  itself are  समर्थ   to   रखना   track   of  statistics entirely  ऑनलाइन  , eliminating the need  to   जाँच   बक्सा  scores and  अखबारों  regularly to keep track of players .
Most  लीग  have  a   सिंगल  week championship in Week  16  of the NFL season  .
World population estimates  इससे   1800  to 2100 , based on  un  2010 projections ( red , orange , green )  और  US  जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau historical estimates (  ब्लैक  )  .
Actual recorded population  आंकड़े  are in blue .
according  to the highest  अनुमान  ,  the  world population may rise  to   16  billion by  2100  ; according to the lowest estimate , it  may  decline to  6  billion .
The  संसार   जनसांख्यिकी   is  the total number  of   जीना  humans on Earth  .
as   of  today ,  it  is  अनुमानित  to number billion by the United States  जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau  (  USCB  )   .
The  uscb  estimates that  the  world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12 , 2012  .
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations  जनसांख्यिकी  Fund ,  it   पहुँचे   इस  milestone on  अक्तूबर  31 ,  2011  .
the  world population  रै  experienced  निरन्तर  growth since  the  end of the Great Famine and  the   ब्लैक   मौत  in  1350  , when it stood at around 370 million .
the   उच्चतम   दरों   of  growth –  वैश्विक   जनसांख्यिकी  increases  ऊपर  1.8 %  प्रति  year – were seen briefly during the 1950s , and for a  longer   काल   दौरान   the  1960s and 1970s .
the  growth  रेट  peaked  at  2.2 %  in  1963  ,  and  था   अस्वीकृत   to  1.1 % by 2011  .
Total  सालाना  births  यहूद   उच्चतम  in the late  1980s  at about 138 million , and  हैं  now expected to remain  essentially  constant  at  their 2011 level  of   134  million  ,   जबकि   मौतों  number  56  million per year  ,   और  are  अपेक्षित  to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current  projections   दिखाएँ  a  जारी  increase  in  population in the near  भविष्य   (   लकिन  a steady decline in the population growth  रेट   )  , with the global population  अपेक्षित  to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion  by   2050  .
विभिन्न  longer-term estimates predict further growth , stagnation , or even overall decline in the  वैश्विक   जनसांख्यिकी   by  2150 .
कुछ  analysts have questioned the  स्थिरता  of further world population  विकास  ,  citing   the  growing pressures on the  पर्यावरण  , global  खाना  supplies ,  और   उर्जा   संसाधन   .
skeletal   मांसपेशियां  homo  sapiens
इस   is  a  तालिका  of  मांसपेशियां  of  the  human anatomy  .
वहीँ  are approximately 642  skeletal   मांसपेशियां  within the typical human ,  और   लगभग  every  मांसपेशी   constitutes  one part of a pair  of  identical bilateral muscles ,  मिला  on  दोनो   पहलू   ,   resulting  in  लगभग   320  pairs of muscles , as presented  in  this article .
Nevertheless ,  the   सटीक  number is  मुश्किल   to  define because different  स्त्रोत  group muscles  differently  , e.g .  regarding  what  is  defined as  अलग  parts of a single  मांसपेशी   or   as  several  मांसपेशियां  .
Examples range from 640  to  850  .
The  मांसपेशियां  of the human  देह   can  be categorized  into  a number of groups which include  मांसपेशियां  relating to the head and  गर्दन   ,  muscles  of  the torso or trunk  ,  muscles of the  अपर   limbs   ,  and  मांसपेशियां  of the lower limbs  .
The action  refers  to the action  of  each muscle from the standard  anatomical   स्थिति  .
In other positions ,  अन्य  actions may be  performed  .
A gold bar  is  a quantity  of   परिष्कृत  metallic gold of any  आकार   कि  is made by a  बार  producer  बैठक  standard conditions  of  manufacture ,  labeling  , and record keeping .
Larger gold bars that  हैं   उत्पादित  by  pouring  the molten metal into  molds  are  पुकारा  ingots  .
Smaller bars may be  manufactured  by minting or  stamping   इससे   appropriately  rolled  सुनहरा   चादरें   .
the   मानक  gold bar held as gold  reserves  by central banks and  traded  among  bullion  dealers is the 400-troy-ounce (  12.4  kg  or  438.9  औंस  )  शुभ  Delivery  सुनहरा  bar .
the  kilobar ,  जिससे  is to say 1000  गामा   in  mass ,  is  the  बार  that is more manageable  और   is  used extensively for trading and  निवेश  .
the  premium  on   ये   बार  when traded is  बहुत  low  over   the   स्पॉट  value of  the  gold making it  आदर्श  for small  हस्तांतरण   between  banks and traders .
सबसे  kilobars are  चपटा  , although some investors ,  विशेषकर   in  Europe ,  prefer  the brick shape .
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' Manning III ( born May 19 ,  1949  ) is a former American football  क्वार्टरबैक  in  the  National Football  लीग  ,  playing  for the New Orleans Saints from 1971  to  1982 , then for  the  Houston Oilers and  मिनेसोटा   वाइकिंग्स  .
He is the father of current Denver  broncos  quarterback Peyton Manning , current New  यॉर्क   दिग्गज  starting quarterback  एली  Manning , and  पूर्व  Ole Miss  receiver  Cooper Manning  .
Advocacy is  a   राजनैतिक  process by an  व्यक्तिगत  or group which  aims  to influence public-policy and  संसाधन  allocation decisions within political  ,  economic ,  और  social  प्रणालियों  and institutions  .
Advocacy  can  include  अनेक   क्रियाएँ   कि   a  person or  संगठन   undertakes  including media  अभियान  , public  बोलना  , commissioning  और   प्रकाशन  research or polls  or  the  दाखिल  of an amicus  ब्रैड   .
Lobbying (  प्रायः  by lobby  समूह  ) is a form of  वकालत  where a direct  दृष्टिकोण  is  बना   to   विधायक  on an  समस्या   जिससे  plays  a  significant  भूमिका  in modern politics  .
Research is beginning to  explore  how advocacy  समूह  in the U.S.  और  Canada are using  सोशल  media to  सुकर   नागरिक   सगाई  and collective  कार्रवाई   .
The  ध्वज  of  मैक्सिको   (  Spanish : Bandera de México ) is  a   लंबवत  tricolor of green , white , and red with the national coat of arms charged in the center of the white  stripe  .
While the meaning of the  रंगों  has  बदला   over  time , these  तीन  colors  यहूद  adopted  by  Mexico following independence from  स्पेन  during the  देश   's  War of Independence  ,  and  subsequent   पहला  Mexican Empire .
The current  ध्वज   थी   अपनाया   in  1968 , but the overall design has been  प्रयुक्त   चूंकि  1821 , when  the   पहला  National Flag was created  .
The current law of  नेशनल  symbols , Law on the National Arms  ,  Flag  ,   और  Anthem , that governs the use of  the   नेशनल  flag has been  in  place since  1984   .
रेड  , white  ,  and  ग्रीन  are the  रंगों   of   the  national  मुक्ति   फौज   in  Mexico .
The  सेंट्रल  emblem is the  एज़टेक  pictogram  लिये  Tenochtitlan  (  now Mexico City )  ,   the  center  of  their empire .
it  recalls the legend that inspired the Aztecs to settle on what was  originally  a  lake-island  .
the   रूप  of the coat of  बाहें  was most recently revised  in  1968 .
A  रिबन  in the national  रंगों  is at  the  bottom  of  the  कोट   of   बाहें  .
throughout  history , the flag  रै  changed four times , as the design  of  the coat  of   बाहें  and the length-width  ratios  of  the   ध्वज  have been modified .
However , the  कोट  of arms  रै  had  the   वही  features  throughout   :  an eagle , holding  a  serpent  in   इसके  talon , is perched on  शीर्ष  of a prickly pear cactus ; the cactus is  situated  on a  चट्टान  that rises  ऊपर  a  झील  .
The coat of arms is derived  इससे  an  एज़टेक  legend that their  देवताओं  told  उन्हें  to build a city  जहाँ  they spot an eagle  on  a nopal eating  a   serpent   ,  which  is  now Mexico City  .
The current national  ध्वज  , the Fourth National  ध्वज   ,  is  भी  used as the Mexican naval  ensign  by ships registered  in  Mexico  .
A  गंतव्य  marketing organization or convention and visitor bureau promotes a town , city , region  ,  or country in order to increase the number  of   विज़िटर  .
it  promotes the  विकास  and marketing of  a  destination , focusing on convention  बिक्री  ,  पर्यटन   विपणन   ,  and services .
Such  संगठन  promote economic development of  a  destination by increasing visits  इससे  tourists and business travelers , which generates  overnight  lodging for  a   गंतव्य  , visits  to  restaurants ,  और  shopping revenues .
सम्मेलन  and visitor bureaus are  the   सबसे   महत्वपूर्ण   पर्यटन  marketing organizations in their respective tourist destinations ,  as  they  हैं  directly responsible for marketing the destination brand through  सफर  and tourism  ``  product  जागरूकता  '' to visitors .
dmos  produce  अरबों  of  डॉलर  in direct  और  indirect revenue and taxes for their  गंतव्यों  ' economies with their marketing and sales  विशेषज्ञता   .
Destination  विपणन   संगठन  are often  पुकारा  travel  ,  convention , visitors  ,   or  tourism bureaux  ,  welcome centers  ,  information centers  और  more .
regardless   of   the  name , these organizations offer many services to the traveling public  .
the  elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis  )   is  one of  the   largest   प्रजाति  of deer in the world , and one  of  the largest  जमीन  mammals in North America and  पूर्वी  Asia  .
it  was long believed to be a  subspecies   of  the  यूरोपीय  red deer ( Cervus elaphus )  ,  but  प्रमाण   इससे  a  2004  study of the mitochondrial DNA indicates that the two are distinct species .
इस  animal  चाहिए  not be confused with the larger  मूस   (  Alces alces  )   ,   to  which  the  name ``  नीलगाय  '' applies  in  Eurasia .
अलावा   इससे  the moose ,  the   तभी   अन्य  member of  the  deer family to rival  the   नीलगाय  in size is the south  एशियाई  sambar (  rusa  unicolor ) .
नीलगाय  range in  वन   और   forest-edge   आवास  ,  feeding   on  grasses ,  पौधे  ,  पत्ते  , and bark .
Although native to North America  और   पूर्वी  Asia ,  वे  have adapted  खूब  to countries  जहाँ  they  have  been introduced , including Argentina , Australia ,  और  New Zealand  .
Their  ग्रेट   adaptability  may  threaten  endemic species  और   ecosystems  into which  वे  have  महरूम  introduced  .
पुरूष  elk have large  antlers  which are shed each year  .
males  also engage  in  ritualized  समागम  behaviors during  the  rut , including posturing , antler wrestling ( sparring )  ,  and bugling ,  a   लाउड   श्रेणी  of vocalizations  जिससे  establishes dominance over  अन्य  males and attracts females .
Elk are susceptible  to  a number  of  infectious diseases , some of which can be transmitted to livestock  .
Efforts to  eliminate  infectious  रोगों  from elk populations , largely through vaccination , have  था  mixed  कामयाबी  .
Some cultures revere  the  elk as a spiritual  फ़ोर्स   .
In parts of  एशिया  ,  antlers   और   उनके   मखमल  are  प्रयुक्त  in traditional medicines  .
Elk are  hunted  as a game species ; the meat  is  leaner  और   उच्चतर  in protein  than  beef or chicken .
The George  वॉशिंगटन   विश्वविद्यालयों  ( GW ,  gwu   ,  or George Washington ) is a comprehensive private , coeducational research university located in  वॉशिंगटन  , D.C. .
it  awards certificates , Bachelor degrees , Masters  डिग्री  , and PhDs across several dozen disciplines .
The university was  चार्टर्ड  by  an  Act  of   कॉंग्रेस  on  फ़रवरी  9 , 1821  as   the  Columbian College  in   the  District of Columbia .
The lion  (   पेंथेरा   leo  ) is one of the  चार  big cats in the genus  पेंथेरा  and  a  member of the  परिवार   फ़ेलिडाए  .
With some males exceeding in weight  ,   it  is  the  second-largest  जीना   बिल्ली  after the tiger  .
Wild lions  फिलहाल  exist  in  sub-Saharan Africa  और   in  Asia (  जहाँ  an  endangered  remnant population resides  in  Gir Forest National  पार्क  in India ) while other types of lions  have   disappeared  from North Africa and Southwest Asia in  ऐतिहासिक   टाइम्स  .
जबतक  the  लेट  Pleistocene ,  परिचय  10,000 years ago , the lion was the most widespread large  जमीन  mammal  बाद   इंसानो  .
वे  were found in  सबसे  of Africa  ,  across  यूरेशिया   इससे   पश्चिमी  Europe to India , and  in  the Americas  इससे  the  yukon  to Peru .
The lion is  a  vulnerable  प्रजाति   ,   having   देखी  a major population decline of 30–50  %  over  the   पास्ट   दो  decades  in  its  अफ़्रीकी   दायरा   .
Lion  populations   हैं  untenable outside designated reserves and national parks .
Although the cause of  the  decline is not fully  समझा  ,  आवास  loss  और  conflicts with humans are  फिलहाल   the  greatest causes  of  concern .
भीतर  Africa , the West African lion  जनसांख्यिकी   is   विशेषकर  endangered .
शेर   सजीव  for 10–14 years in  the   जंगली  , while in captivity they  can  live longer  than  20 years .
In  the  wild ,  males   seldom   सजीव   longer  than 10 years , as injuries  sustained  from continual fighting  साथ   प्रतिद्वंद्वी  males  greatly   reduce  their longevity  .
वे  typically  inhabit   सवाना   और  grassland ,  हालांकि  they may take to bush  और  forest  .
Lions are unusually  सोशल   compared  to other  बिल्लियों   .
a  pride of lions  consists  of related  महिलाओं  and offspring and a small number  of   वयस्क   males  .
Groups of  मादा  lions typically  हंट   साथ  , preying mostly on large ungulates .
शेर  are apex  और   keystone   परभक्षी   ,   हालांकि   वे  scavenge as opportunity allows .
While lions  do  not typically hunt humans , some have been known to do so .
Sleeping mainly during the  दिन  , lions are primarily nocturnal  ,   हालांकि   bordering  on  crepuscular  in nature .
Highly distinctive , the male  शेर   is  easily recognised by its mane  ,  and its  फेस  is one  of  the most  widely   recognised  animal symbols  in  human culture  .
Depictions have existed from the Upper  paleolithic  period , with carvings and paintings from the Lascaux  और  Chauvet Caves  ,  through virtually  सब  ancient and medieval cultures where  वे   एकबार  occurred .
it  has been  extensively  depicted in sculptures , in paintings , on national  ध्वज  , and in contemporary films and literature  .
Lions have  महरूम  kept in  menageries  since  the   समय   of   the  Roman Empire ,  और   have   महरूम   a   कुंजी  species sought for exhibition in zoos over  the  world since  the  late 18th  सदी   .
Zoos are cooperating worldwide in breeding  कार्यक्रम  for the  endangered  Asiatic  subspecies  .
In the history of video games ,  the   सातवाँ   पीढी  of  consoles  is the previous generation , and includes  consoles   released  since late by Nintendo  ,   microsoft  , and Sony .
लिये   घर   consoles   ,  the seventh  पीढी   began   on  22 November  2005  with  the  release of Xbox 360 and  जारी  with  the  release of PlayStation  3   on   11  November 2006  ,  and  वी   on  19 November 2006 .
प्रत्येक   नई   कंसोल  introduced a new type of breakthrough in technology .
the   एक्सबॉक्स  360 offered games  rendered   natively  at HD resolutions  ,  the PlayStation  3   offered  , in addition  to  FHD gaming  ,  HD movie playback  via   a   built-in   3d  Blu-ray  डिस्क   खिलाड़ी  ,  और  the Wii focused on  integrating   परिरक्षक   साथ  movement  सेंसर   as  well as  joysticks  .
Joining Nintendo in the motion market  ,  Sony released  the  PlayStation Move in September 2010 .
The PlayStation Move features  गति  sensing gaming ,  समान   to  that of the Wii  .
Microsoft  भी  joined Sony and Nintendo  ,   साथ   इसके  Kinect  .
नापसंद  the other  दो  systems  (   प्लेस्टेशन  3  और  Wii )  ,   kinect  does not use  कोई  controllers of  कोई   sort   और  makes the  उपयोक्ता  the ``  नियंत्रक   .   ''
having  sold 8 million  इकाई  in its first 60 days on  the  market  ,  Kinect has  claimed  the  गिनीज  World Record of being  the   ``   तीव्रतम   selling   उपभोक्ता   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  device  ''  .
जबकि   the  Xbox 360 offers wired controllers  as   a  standalone product  ,   सब  PlayStation 3  परिरक्षक   can  be used in  तार  and wireless  configurations  .
Starting with  हैंडहेल्ड  consoles , the  सातवाँ   पीढी  began on 21 November 2004 with the North American  परिचय  of the Nintendo DS as a `` third pillar ''  ,   alongside   निन्टेंडो  's existing Game Boy Advance and GameCube consoles  .
The Nintendo DS  (  NDS  )  features  a   टच  screen and  built-in   माइक्रोफोन   ,  and supports wireless IEEE  802.11  ( Wi-Fi ) standards  .
additionally   ,   the  revised version of the NDS , the DSi  ,   सुविधाएँ   दो  built in cameras , the ability to download games from  the  DSi  स्टोर  , and  a  web browser .
The PlayStation  पोर्टेबल  ,  or  PSP , released  बाद  the same year on 12 December 2004 , followed a different pattern .
it   became   the  first handheld  वीडियो   खेल  console to use an optical disc  स्वरूप   ,  Universal Media  डिस्क  ( UMD ) , as  इसके  primary storage media  .
Sony also gave  the   psp   मजबूत  multi-media capability , connectivity  साथ  the PlayStation  3   और  other PSPs  ,  and Internet connectivity  .
The Nintendo DS likewise has  कनेक्टिविटी  to the internet through the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and Nintendo DS Browser  ,  as well as  बेतार  connectivity to other DS systems and Wii consoles  .
Despite high sales numbers for both consoles ,  प्लेस्टेशन  Portable sales have  consistently  lagged behind those  of   the  Nintendo DS ;  nevertheless  , the PlayStation Portable has  the  distinction of  होने  the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming  प्रणाली   .
sgt  . Pepper 's Lonely Hearts  क्लबों  Band  (  often  shortened  to  sgt  . Pepper )  is  the eighth studio album by English rock band  the   बीटल्स   .
Released in June 1967 ,  the  album  शामिल  songs such as `` With  a  Little Help from My Friends ``  ,  `` Lucy in the Sky with  ईंट  `` ,  और  `` A Day  in   the  Life ``  .
continuing   the   कलाकारी  maturation  देखी  on the band  's  album  रिवाल्वर  ( 1966 ) , Sgt . Pepper further departed  इससे  the conventional pop rock  मुहावरा  of the  समय  and incorporated  balladry  ,  साइकेडेलिक  ,  म्यूज़िक  hall , and symphonic influences .
During the  sgt  . Pepper sessions , the group improved upon the quality of  उनके  music 's production while exploring  प्रायोगिक   रिकॉर्डिंग   तकनीकों  .
Producer George Martin 's innovative approach  शामिल  the use  of  an orchestra .
widely  acclaimed and  imitated  , the album  कवर   ,  designed by English pop artists Peter Blake and  jann  Haworth  ,  was inspired by a sketch  by   पॉल   mccartney  that depicted the band posing in  सामने  of a collage  of  some  of  their favourite  हस्तियाँ  .
Sgt . Pepper  थी  a  विश्वव्यापी  critical and commercial success , spending  27  weeks at the top of the  uk  Album Chart and 15 weeks at number one on the  us  Billboard 200 .
A seminal  कार्य  in the emerging psychedelic  चट्टान   स्टाइल  ,  the  album  थी   critically   acclaimed  upon  रिलीज   और  won four Grammy Awards in 1968 .
साथ  an  अनुमानित   32  million copies  बेची  ,  it   is  one of the world 's best selling albums .
Sgt  .  Pepper is considered by many to be  the   सबसे  influential and famous rock album ever , and has been  नामित  the  महानतम   एल्बम  of  सब  time by both  सब   समय  Top 1000 Albums  और   रोलिंग  Stone .
the   temporal  lobe is a region of the cerebral  cortex  that is  स्तिथ  beneath the lateral  फिशर   on  both cerebral hemispheres  of   the   mammalian  brain .
the  temporal lobes  हैं  involved in the  स्तंभन  of visual memories , processing  संवेदी  input  ,  comprehending language , storing new memories , emotion , and deriving meaning  .
the  human lungs are the organs of respiration  in   इंसानो  .
इंसानो  have two lungs  ,  a  सही  lung and a left lung .
the   सही  lung  consists  of  तीन   निर्मोक  while the left  फेफड़ों  is slightly smaller  consisting  of  तभी  two  निर्मोक   (  the left lung  रै  a  ``   हृदय  notch '' allowing space for the heart within the  छाती   )  .
साथ  , the  फेफड़े  contain approximately of  एयरवेज़  and 300 to 500 million alveoli , having  a   कुल  surface area  of   परिचय  ( ) in adults  —  roughly the  वही   क्षेत्रफल  as  एक  side of a tennis court .
Furthermore  ,  if  सब  of the capillaries that surround  the   alveoli   यहूद   unwound  and laid end  to  end , they would extend for  परिचय  .
Each lung weighs  ,   इसलिए  making the  संपूर्ण   अंग  about .
इंसान  lungs
The trachea divides  into  two bronchi  (  one for each  पक्ष  ) at  the   स्तर  of T4 .
इस  junction  is   भी  known as  the   carina  .
The  conducting  zone  contains  the trachea , the  bronchi   ,  the bronchioles , and the terminal bronchioles The  respiratory   मण्डल   contains  the respiratory  bronchioles  , the  alveolar  ducts  ,  and the alveoli .
The conducting zone and the  respiratory  stuffers ( but not the alveoli ) are made up of  एयरवेज़  .
The  conducting   मण्डल   रै  no  गैस  exchange with the blood  ,  and is  reinforced   साथ   उपास्थि  in  अनुक्रम  to hold  खोलें  the airways .
the  conducting zone warms the  एयर  to and humidifies  the  air  .
it  also cleanses the air  by  removing particles via cilia located  on   the  walls of all the  passageways   .
The lungs  हैं   घिरी  by the  पसली  cage .
The respiratory zone is the  साईट  of gas exchange with blood .
the   सहानुभूतिपूर्ण  nervous  प्रणाली  via noradrenaline  एक्टिंग   on   the  beta receptors causes bronchodilation .
the  parasympathetic  बेचैन   प्रणाली   via  acetylcholine  ,  which acts on the M-3 muscarinic receptors , maintains the resting tone  of  the bronchiolar smooth muscle .
This  कार्रवाई   is   सम्बन्धित  , although  माना   पृथक  from bronchoconstriction .
अनेक  other  non-autonomic  nervous and biochemical stimuli  ,   सहित   कार्बन  dioxide and oxygen , are also  शामिल  in the regulation process  .
The  pleural  cavity is  the   संभावित   स्पेस  between the parietal  pleura   ,   अस्तर  the  भीतरी  wall of the thoracic cage , and the visceral  pleura  lining the lungs .
the   फेफड़ों   parenchyma  is strictly  प्रयुक्त  to refer solely to alveolar tissue with  respiratory  bronchioles  ,  alveolar  नलिकाएं   और  terminal bronchioles .
However , it often includes any form of  फेफड़ों   ऊतक  , also  सहित  bronchioles ,  bronchi   ,  blood vessels and lung interstitium .
the  margarita is  a  Mexican  कॉकटेल   consisting   of  tequila mixed with Cointreau or  समान   नारंगी  -flavoured liqueur  और   लाइम  or lemon  रस  , often  परोसा   साथ  salt  on  the glass rim .
it  is the most  आम  tequila-based cocktail in the United States .
The  पेय  is  परोसा  shaken with ice ( on the rocks  )   ,  blended  साथ  ice (  frozen  margarita ) , or without ice ( straight  up  )  .
Two bottles of red Burgundy wine from Gevrey-Chambertin  ,   côtes  de Nuits
Burgundy  is   a   अंधेरा  red color associated with the Burgundy wine of the same  नाम  ,  जिससे  in turn is named  बाद  the Burgundy region  of  France  .
The color burgundy is similar to other  शेड्स  of dark  रेड  such as maroon  .
When referring to the color  ,  `` burgundy '' is usually  नहीं  capitalized .
The first  अंकित  use  of  ``  बरगंडी   ''   as  a color name in  अंग्रेज़ी  was in 1881  .
Grave  of  an unknown  अंग्रेजों  soldier ,  मारे  in 1943 during  the  Battle of  leros  .
Because  उसके  identity  is   अनजान   ,  he  is  missing in  कार्रवाई  .
Grave of an unknown American  सिपाही  in Oise-Aisne Cemetery .
Killed in 1917
संगीन  of an unknown paratrooper  ,   मारे  in the  बैटल  of Arnhem  ,  1944 .
Photographed in April 1945
Graves of 11 unknown British soldiers killed  दौरान   संसार  War II ,  in  Rhodes CWGC  युद्ध  cemetery
Wall crypts  containing  remains of unknown  इतालवी   सैनिको  killed during  संसार  War II  ,  in a  rhodes  cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names inscribed on  the   thiepval  Memorial  to   the  Missing of  the   somme
Graves of unknown  फ्रेंच  soldiers killed during World  युद्ध   एक  .
प्रत्येक   कंक्रीट   क्रॉस  has  a   मेटल  plaque bearing  the  word ``  inconnu  '' i.e . `` Unknown ''
ossuary  at the  gallipoli  battlefield  ,  containing  the   remains  of 3000 unidentified French  सैनिको  who died in  1915
Graves  of  unknown Eritrean Ascaris  मारे  in 1941 during the Battle  of  Keren
Missing  in  action  (   मिया  )  is   a   casualty   श्रेणी  assigned under the Status of  लापता   to  armed services  कर्मियों  who are reported missing during active service .
They may  have  been killed , wounded  ,  become a prisoner of war , or deserted .
if  deceased ,  neither  their  remains   nor   संगीन  can be positively  पहचाना  .
Becoming MIA has been an occupational risk  लिये  service personnel for  as  long  as  there has been warfare .
Chamber of Commerce  भवन   in  Center  .
इस   भवन   is  the  असली  jail , built along with the Historic Courthouse .
दोनो  sit  on   the  Town Square .
The Rio  थिएटर  in  बीच
First  बैपटिस्ट  Church at  117   कोरा   गली  in  बीच   is   स्तिथ  next  to  the downtown  खण्ड   .
First  ईसाई   गिरिजाघर  at  124   कोरा  Street in Center is one of  the   oldest  congregations in  the  community .
Center is a city in Shelby County ,  टेक्सास  , United States  .
the  population was 5,193 at the 2010 census .
it   is   the  county  सीट   of  Shelby  काउंटी  .
It  is  named for its location near the center  of  Shelby County  ,  not for its location in Texas  as   it   is   स्तिथ   निकट  the Louisiana  किनारा   .
तीव्र  red-eye  प्रभाव   in  blue  आँखें   साथ  dilated pupil
the  red-eye  प्रभाव  in photography  is   the  common appearance  of  red pupils in  रंग  photographs  of  eyes .
It occurs when  using  a  फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक  flash very  बंद   to   the  camera lens ( as  साथ  most compact cameras ) , in ambient low light .
The effect  appears   in  the eyes of humans  और   पशु   कि  have tapetum lucidum .
नाट्य   followspot   ऑपरेटर  ,  positioned   nearly  coincidentally with a  बहुत  bright  लाइट  and somewhat distant  इससे  the actors , occasionally witness red-eye  in  actors on  स्टेज   .
The effect is not visible  to  the  बाकी  of  the   दर्शक  because  it  is reliant on  the  very small angle between the  followspot  operator and the light .
The University of California ,  सांता  Barbara ( commonly referred to as UC Santa  बारबरा   or  UCSB ) is a public research university and  एक  of the ten general campuses  of   the  University of California  प्रणाली  .
The main campus  is  located on a site in Goleta , California , United States  ,   इससे  Santa Barbara and northwest of  लॉस  Angeles .
Tracing its roots back to  1891  as an  स्वतंत्र   शिक्षक   '  college  ,   ucsb   joined   the  University of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  system  in  1944  और  is the third-oldest general-education campus  in  the system  .
UCSB is one  of   अमेरिका  's Public Ivy universities  ,   जिससे  recognizes top public research  विश्वविद्यालयों   in  the  संयुक्त  States .
The university is a  व्यापक  doctoral university and  is   व्यवस्थित   into  five colleges  और  schools  offering  87  undergraduate  degrees and 55  ग्रैजुएट  degrees  .
The campus  is  the  6th-largest  in the  uc   प्रणाली   by  enrollment  साथ  18,977 undergraduate and  2,950  graduate students .
In 2012  ,  UCSB was ranked  41st  among  ``  National Universities '' and 10th  among  public universities by  u.S.  News & World  रपट  .
the  university was also ranked 35th  विश्वव्यापी  by the Times  उच्चतर   शिक्षा  World University Rankings and 34th worldwide  (   6th   विश्वव्यापी  for  अभियान्त्रिकी  )  by  the Academic Ranking of World  विश्वविद्यालयों  in 2012. < ref name= ''  shanghairanking.com/fieldeng2012   ''   >
UC Santa  बारबरा  is a  ``  very  ऊँची  activity  ''   शोध  university  और  spent $ 191.2 million on research expenditures in the 2007 fiscal year  ,   97th-largest  in the  संयुक्त  States .
UCSB houses twelve national research centers  ,   सहित  the renowned Kavli Institute  लिये  Theoretical Physics  .
ucsb  faculty  शामिल   पाँच   नोबेल  Prize laureates , one Fields Medalist , 29 members of the  नेशनल  Academy of Sciences ,  27  members of the  नेशनल  Academy of  अभियान्त्रिकी   ,  and 31 members  of  the American  अकादमी  of Arts  और  Sciences .
ucsb  was the  no  . 3 host on  the  ARPAnet and was elected to the Association  of  American Universities in 1995  .
The UC Santa Barbara Gauchos  compete  in  the  NCAA Division I  बिग   वेस्ट  Conference .
The Gauchos  have  won  ncaa   नेशनल   championships  in men  's  soccer  और  men 's water polo  .
Saint  जोसेफ  with the  शिशु   यीशु  by Guido  reni
Saint Joseph  's   दिन   ,  March 19  ,  the Feast of  st.  Joseph is in  पश्चिमी   christianity  the principal feast  दिन  of Saint Joseph  ,   जीवनसाथी   of  the Blessed Virgin  मरियम   .
He is also  the   step-father  of  यीशु  of Nazareth /Jesus  मसीह  .
it  has  the  rank of  a  solemnity in the Roman  कैथोलिक  Church  ;  Catholics who follow  the  Missal of 1962 celebrate it as a first class  feast  .
Previous to  1962   it  was  मनाये  as  a   feast  of the rank  of   दोगुना  of the first  क्लास  .
It is  a  feast or  commemoration  in the provinces of the Anglican Communion , and a feast  or  festival  in  the Lutheran  गिरिजाघर  .
Saint  जोसेफ  's Day is  the  Patronal Feast day  लिये  Poland as well as  लिये   कनाडा  , persons named Joseph , Josephine  ,   etc.  ,  लिये   धार्मिक   संस्थान  , schools  और  parishes  bearing   उसके  name ,  और  for carpenters  .
it  is also Father 's Day in  कुछ  Catholic  देशों  , mainly Spain , Portugal , and  इटली  .
March 19 was dedicated  to  Saint  जोसेफ  in  अनेक   पश्चिमी  calendars by the  दसवाँ  century  ,  and this custom was established in Rome  by  1479 .
पोप  St. Pius V extended  इसके  use  to  the entire  रोमन  Rite by  उसके  Apostolic Constitution Quo  primum  ( July 14  ,   1570  ) .
Since 1969 , Episcopal  सम्मेलनों  may , if they  काश   ,   ट्रांसफ़र   it  to a date outside Lent .
Between 1870 and 1955 , a feast  थी  celebrated in honor  of  St.  जोसेफ  as Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary and Patron of the Universal Church , the latter title having been given  to  him  by  Pope Pius IX .
Originally celebrated  on   the   तीसरा  Sunday after Easter with  an  octave ,  बाद  Divino Afflatu  of   st.  Pius X  (  see  सुधार  of the  रोमन  Breviary by  पोप  Pius X ) ,  it   थी   स्थानांतरित  to the  preceding  Wednesday .
The feast  थी  also  retitled   the  Solemnity  of   संत  Joseph .
This celebration and its accompanying octave was abolished during the modernisation  और   सरलीकरण  of rubrics under Pope Pius XII  in  1955 .
it   is   स्टिल  maintained  by  Catholics  जो  follow the  missal  of 1962 or earlier missals .
as  the  परंपरागत  holiday  of  the Apostles Ss . Philip  और  James ,  may  1 , had faded from  the   मेमोरी  of most  catholics  by  the  mid-twentieth century ,  कि   of  Joseph the Worker  थी  created in order to  coincide   साथ  the  जश्न   of  international  श्रमिक  Day  (  May Day ) in many countries .
The  feast  of  ss  . Philip and James  ,  which had been  मनाये  on  कि  date since  the  sixth  सदी  , was moved  इससे  its  परंपरागत  place  .
In the new calendar published in 1969 , the  feast   ,  which  at  one time occupied the highest  संभावित  rank in the Church calendar  ,   थी  reduced to  an  optional Memorial , the lowest rank for a saint 's day  .
The  पूर्वी  Orthodox  गिरिजाघर  celebrates Saint Joseph on  the  Sunday  बाद  Christmas .
Mariah  कैरी   (  born March 27 ,  1970  ) is an  अमरीकी  singer  ,  songwriter , record producer , actress  ,   और   लोकसेवक   .
Under the  मार्गदर्शन   of  Columbia Records  कार्यपालिका   टॉमी   mottola   ,  Carey  released  her  self-titled  debut  स्टुडियो   एल्बम   mariah  Carey in 1990  ;  it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on  the  U.S . Billboard Hot 100  चार्ट  .
following   उसके  marriage  to  Mottola in 1993 and  कामयाबी   साथ  hit records Emotions  (  1991 )  ,  Music Box ( 1993 ) , and Merry Christmas  (   1994  ) , Carey was established as Columbia 's  highest-selling  act  .
Daydream (  1995  ) made music history  जब   इसके   दूसरी  single  ``  One Sweet Day ``  ,  a duet with Boyz II  मेन  , spent a record sixteen weeks on  शीर्ष  of the Billboard  hot   100  , and remains the longest-running  number-one  song  in  U.S.  चार्ट  history  .
During the recording  of  the album ,  कैरी  began to  deviate  from her R &  b  and  पॉप  beginnings and  धीरे   traversed  into  हिप  hop  .
इस  musical  बदलें   became   evident   साथ  the release of Butterfly ( 1997  )  , at which time Carey had  अलग  from  mottola  .
Carey left Columbia in 2000 ,  और  signed a record-breaking $ 100 million  रिकॉर्डिंग  contract with Virgin  रिकॉर्ड  .
Before the  रिलीज   of  her  पहला  feature film  glitter  (  2001  )  ,  she suffered a  शारीरिक  and  emotional   विश्लेषण  and was hospitalized for  कठोर  exhaustion .
following   the  film  's   ग़रीब  reception , she was bought out  of  her  रिकॉर्डिंग  contract for $ 50 million ,  जिससे  led  to  a decline  in  her  करियर  .
She  हस्ताक्षरित  a  multi-million   डालर  contract deal with Island  रिकॉर्ड  in 2002 ,  और  after an unsuccessful period  ,  returned to the top  of  music charts with The  emancipation  of Mimi ( 2005 )  .
इसके  second single `` We Belong  साथ  `` became her most  कामयाब   सिंगल  of  the  2000s  ,  and was  बाद  named  ``  Song  of  the Decade ''  by   बिलबोर्ड  .
Carey once  again  ventured into film  साथ  a well-received  अभिनीत   भूमिका   in  ( 2009 ) ;  वो   थी  awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance  पुरस्कार  '' at  the  Palm  स्रोतों   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Film  पर्व  , and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award  nominations  .
in  a  करियर  spanning  over  two decades , Carey  रै  sold  अधिक  than  200  million records worldwide , making her  एक  of  the  best-selling music  कलाकारों  of  सब  time .
in  1998 , she was honored as the world  's  best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at  the   संसार  Music Awards .
Carey was  भी   नामित  the best-selling female artist of  the  millennium  in  2000 .
According  to  the Recording Industry Association  of  America , she  is  the third best-selling female artist in the United States ,  साथ  63.5  लाख  certified  एल्बम   .
With the release of  ``  Touch My Body `` ( 2008 )  ,   कैरी  gained her  eighteenth  number one single in the  संयुक्त  States  ,  more than any  अन्य  solo artist .
In 2012  ,  Carey  थी  ranked second on VH1 's  सूची   of  the  ``  100 Greatest Women in Music ''  .
Aside from her commercial accomplishments  ,  Carey has won  पाँच   ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार  , 17  संसार  Music  पुरस्कार  , 11  अमरीकी  Music Awards ,  और   31  Billboard Music  पुरस्कार   .
Referred to as  the  ``  songbird  supreme ''  by  the  गिनीज  World  रिकॉर्ड  , she is  famed  for her five-octave vocal range , power  ,   melismatic  style  और  signature  उपयोग  of  the  whistle register .
A bumblebee is any member of the  मधुमक्खी  genus Bombus ,  in  the  परिवार   apidae  .
There are over 250 known species  ,  existing primarily in  the  Northern Hemisphere  हालांकि  they also  occur   in  South America .
They have  महरूम   introduced  to New Zealand  और  the  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  state of Tasmania .
bumblebees   हैं  social insects  कि   हैं  characterised by black  और  yellow  देह  hairs ,  प्रायः  in bands .
However , some  प्रजाति  have orange  or   रेड  on  उनके   लाशें   ,   or  may  be  entirely  ब्लैक  .
Another obvious ( but not unique ) characteristic is the  नरम  nature of the hair ( long ,  branched  setae ) ,  पुकारा  pile ,  कि  covers their entire  देह   ,   बनाना  them appear and feel  फजी   .
वे  are best distinguished from  similarly  large , fuzzy bees by  the   रूप  of the  मादा   हिन्द  leg , which is modified to form a corbicula : a shiny concave surface that  is   bare  , but surrounded by a fringe of hairs used  to  transport pollen  (   in   समान   मधुमक्खियों   ,  the  हिन्द   लेग  is  completely  hairy , and pollen grains are wedged  into   the   बालों  for transport  )   .
Like their  रिश्तेदारों  the honey bees  ,  bumblebees feed on nectar and gather pollen  to   फीड   उनके  young .
A man  खुलकर   carrying   a  handgun in  a   बर्गर  King in  त्रिभुज  ,  कोलोराडो   .
in   the  United States  ,  open carry is shorthand  शब्दावली  for  ``  openly carrying a firearm in  पब्लिक  '' ,  as  distinguished from concealed carry , where firearms  can  not be seen  by   the   कैज़ुअल  observer .
The practice of  खोलें   carry  , where  गन  owners openly carry  firearms  while they go  परिचय  their  रोज़  business ,  रै   देखी  an increase  in  the U.S. in recent years .
इस  has been marked  by   a   क्रमांक  of organized events intended to increase  the  visibility of open carry and public awareness about the practice .
Proponents of open  carry  point to history and statistics  ,  noting that criminals usually  छिपाते   उनके   हथियार   .
Encouraged by  समूह  like OpenCarry.org , GeorgiaCarry.org and  कुछ  participants of the Free  राज्य  Project , open carry  रै   देखी   a  revival in  हाल   सालो  , but  it   is  not  yet   साफ  if this represents just  a   short-term   ट्रेंड   .
the   गन  rights community has  महरूम   मिश्रित  in  इसके  response  .
एलन   gottlieb  of the Second Amendment Foundation and the NRA  have   महरूम   cautious  in expressing support ,  जबकि  special-interest  समूह   ऐसे  as the  aforementioned  OpenCarry.org and GeorgiaCarry.org , and  निश्चित  national groups such  as  the  गन   स्वामी   of  America  (   गोवा   )  have been  अधिक  outspoken in favor of the  अभ्यास   .
खोलें   carry  is  strongly  opposed by  गन   कंट्रोल   समूह   ऐसे  as the Brady Campaign and the Coalition to Stop  गन  Violence .
The Cattenom Nuclear  शक्ति  Plant in France  .
फ़्रांस   produces  around  तीन  quarters  of  its electricity by  नाभिकीय  power .
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant in  जर्मनी  .
Chancellor  एंजेला   मार्केल   's  coalition announced on May 30 , 2011  ,  that  germany’s  17 nuclear  शक्ति  stations  होगा   be  shut  bas   by   2022  ,  in  a policy reversal following Japan  's   फुकुशिमा   daiichi  nuclear disaster .
Currently ,  68  reactors are under construction in 15  देशों  .
नाभिकीय  power stations operate in  तीस  countries .
In  2010   ,   पहले  the Fukushima  daiichi  nuclear disaster , it was reported that  an  average of about 10 nuclear  रिएक्टरों  were expected  to  become operational per year , although  according   to  the World Nuclear Association , of the  17  civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007  और   2009   ,  only five  दरअसल  came on  स्ट्रीम   .
As of June 2011 , Germany  और  Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power .
as  of June 2011 , countries  ऐसे  as Australia  ,  Austria ,  डेनमार्क  ,  यूनानियों   ,  Ireland  ,   इटली  , Latvia ,  liechtenstein  , Luxembourg  ,  Malaysia  ,   माल्टा  , New  जीलैंड  , Norway and Portugal remain  opposed  to nuclear  शक्ति   .
Color motion picture film refers both to  unexposed  color  फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक  film  in   a  format suitable for use in  a   गति  picture camera  ,  and  to  finished motion picture film ,  तैयार  for use in  a   प्रोजेक्टर  , which  bears  images  in   रंग   .
The  पहला  color cinematography was  by  means of additive color systems such  as  the one patented in England  by  Edward Raymond Turner in 1899 and tested in 1902  .
A simplified additive  प्रणाली   थी  developed  by  George  अल्बर्ट  Smith and  सफलतापूर्वक  commercialized  in  1909 as Kinemacolor  .
These  जल्दी   प्रणालियों  used black-and-white  फिल्मी  to photograph and  प्रोजेक्ट  two or more component images through different  रंग  filters  .
स्टिल  from footage  अंकित  by  एडवर्ड  Turner in 1902
साथ  the present-day technology , there are  दो  distinct processes :  eastman   रंग   ऋणात्मक  2  रसायन  ( camera  ऋणात्मक  stocks , duplicating  interpositive   और  internegative  स्टॉक्स  )  और  Eastman  रंग  Positive 2  रसायन  ( positive  prints  for direct projection )  ,   प्रायः  abbreviated  as  ECN-2 and ECP-2 .
फुजी  's products  हैं  compatible with ECN-2 and ECP-2 .
ashanti   shequoiya  Douglas ( born  अक्तूबर  13 , 1980 ) is an American singer-songwriter  ,   रिकार्ड  producer , and actress  .
Ashanti is most  प्रसिद्ध  for her  eponymous   डेब्यू  album  ,  which featured the hit song  ``  Foolish `` , and sold over  503,000  copies in its first week  of  release throughout  the  U.S. in April 2002  .
the   एल्बम  set a Soundscan record as the biggest opening week sales  लिये   a  new  मादा   कलाकार  ,  outselling  debuts  by  Alicia Keys  और  Lauryn  हिल   .
In  the   वही   सप्ताह  , she  became  the  पहला  female performer to simultaneously  थाम  the  शीर्ष  two places on the  बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 singles  चार्ट   साथ   ``  Foolish '' , and `` What 's  luv  ? ``
(  with Fat Joe  )  .
Ashanti  broke  records again  by  having  तीन  top ten songs  ,   ``  Foolish , '' `` What 's Luv  ?  '' and `` Always on Time  ``   ,  on the Billboard  hot  100 charts  in  the same week , being the first woman to accomplish  इस   feat  and  होने  second only  to   the  Beatles .
in  2003 ,  the  self-titled debut album won  ashanti  her first Grammy Award for Best  समकालीन  R & B album .
As of  अप्रैल  1st 2013  ,  Ashanti has sold over 27.7 million records worldwide .
ashanti  ended the decade  (  2000–09 ) as the third top  नई   r  &  b  artist behind Alicia Keys and Beyoncé  .
She also  ended  the decade  at   क्रमांक  38 on the  शीर्ष  Artist  of  the Decade list  .
वो  is currently on the list of  the  Twenty Best Selling  म्यूज़िक  Singles Since 1990 for her single Foolish for selling  7.2  million copies  to-date  .
ashanti   रै  an estimated net worth of  $  40  लाख   डॉलर  [ USD  ]   .
Ashanti wrote  और   संग  background on  जेनिफर   लोपेज़  's `` Ai n't It  मजेदार  (  हत्या  Remix  )  `` ,  जिससे  reached number one  on  Billboard  hot   100  , which  थी  also in  the   शीर्ष   10  chart at the same time  as   ``  Foolish  ''  , `` Always on  समय  '' ( with  ja  Rule  )   ,  and  ``  What  's   luv  '' ( with Fat Joe  )  .
Later  कि   साल  ,  वो   थी   acclaimed  as the  ``   राजकुमारी   of  Hip-Hop & R & B '' by  उसके  label and capped off her successful debut by  जीतना  eight Billboard awards  और  two American Music  पुरस्कार   .
भीतर  seven years  of   ashanti  's  करियर  , she has  scored  16 top 40 hits on the Hot 100 .
Ashanti has endorsed numerous  उत्पाद  including Gap  ,   हर्बल  Essences and  mudd  Jeans .
Ashanti  cites  Whitney Houston  ,  Janet Jackson  ,  Prince ,  मैडोना   ,  Tupac Shakur ,  मरियम  J. Blige ,  एला  Fitzgerald , Smokey Robinson , Donna Summer ,  और  Blue  जादू   as  her musical influences .
Praised  as   a   gifted  songwriter by  उसके  peers and critics alike ,  ashanti   रै   written/co-written   the  bulk of all  उसके  music .
She  is  currently  working   on  her own publishing company entitled Written  entertainment   .
She  released   उसके  fourth studio album  हकदार   the  Declaration on  जून  3 , 2008 and is currently  in  the studio working on her  पांचवां  .
She also  performed   the  charity tune `` Just Stand  up   ``  alongside  15   अन्य  female singers for the `` Stand  up  to  कर्कट   ''  live  टेलीविज़न  special  जिससे   helped  raise  $  100 million dollars for cancer research .
the  United  राज्य  Army  एयर  Forces ( USAAF  or   aaf  ) was the  सैन्य  aviation arm of the United States of America during and immediately after  संसार  War  ii  , and  the  direct predecessor  of  the  संयुक्त  States Air Force  .
The AAF  थी  a component of the  संयुक्त  States Army  ,  which  in  1942  थी   विभाजित   functionally  by executive  अनुक्रम  into three autonomous forces  :   the  Army  मैदान  Forces , the Services of Supply ( which in 1943 became the Army Service Forces ) , and the AAF .
Each of  ये  forces had a commanding general who reported directly to  the  Chief  of   स्टाफ   of  the United States  फौज   .
the  AAF administered all parts of  सैन्य   विमानन  formerly distributed among the  फौज   एयर   corps   ,  General  मुख्यालय  Air  फ़ोर्स  , and  मैदान   शक्तियां  corps  क्षेत्रफल  commanders , and thus became  the   पहला   एयर  organization of the  u.S.  Army to  कंट्रोल   इसके  own installations and support personnel  .
In  अभ्यास  ,  the  AAF was virtually autonomous inside  the   फौज   .
The peak size  of  the  aaf   थी   over  2.4 million men  और   महिलाओं   in  service and nearly  80,000  aircraft in 1944 , and  783  domestic bases  in  December 1943 .
By VE  दिन  it had  1.25  million  मेन   stationed  overseas  और   संचालित  from more  than  1,600  airfields  worldwide .
The  एयर   corps  became the Army Air  शक्तियां  in  जून   1941  to provide the  एयर  arm a greater autonomy in which  to  expand more efficiently , and to  provide  a  ढांचा   लिये  the additional  कमांड   echelons  required  by  a vastly increased force .
Although  अन्य   राष्ट्र  already had separate air forces  स्वतंत्र   of  the army or  नेवी  ( such as  the   अंग्रेजों   royal   एयर   फ़ोर्स  and  the  German  luftwaffe   )  , the AAF  remained   a  part of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   फौज  until the United States  एयर  Force came into being in September 1947 .
However , in its expansion  और  conduct of  the  war  ,   the   aaf   became   अधिक  than just an  भुजा  of  the  greater  संगठन  .
By the end  of   संसार  War II  the  AAF had become virtually an independent service  .
By  विनियमन  and executive order  ,   the   aaf  was  a   अधीनस्थ   एजेंसी   of  the War  विभाग  tasked  तभी  with organizing , training , and equipping combat units ,  सीमित   in   जिम्मेदारी   to  the continental  संयुक्त  States , as were  the  Army  मैदान   शक्तियां  and  the  Army Service  शक्तियां  .
in  reality ,  मुख्यालय  AAF controlled  the   conduct  of all  पहलुओं  of the air  युद्ध  in  प्रत्येक  part  of   the  world , determining air policy and issuing orders  बगैर  transmitting them through the  मुख्य   of  Staff  .
This ``  कंट्रास्ट   between  theory and fact is ... fundamental to an understanding of the AAF . ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA )  is  a  संघीय  freedom  of  information law that allows for the full  or   आंशिक  disclosure of previously unreleased information  और  documents controlled by  the  United  राज्य  government .
the  Act  defines  agency  रिकॉर्ड  subject to  प्रकटीकरण  , outlines mandatory disclosure procedures and grants  नौ  exemptions to the statute .
it  was  originally   हस्ताक्षरित  into law by President  lyndon   B.  Johnson  ,  despite  उसके  misgivings ,  on   जुलाई  4 , 1966 as  और   गई  into effect the following year .
the   संघीय  Government 's Freedom  of   सूचना   अधिनियम  should not be confused with the  अलग  and  varying  Freedom  of  Information Acts  passed  by the  व्यक्तिगत   राज्य  .
Many  of   those  state acts may  be  similar but  नहीं  identical  to   the   संघीय   अधिनियम  .
the  European Union ( EU  )  is  an   आर्थिक  and political  संघ  of  27   सदस्य  states that  हैं   स्तिथ  primarily in Europe .
the  EU  operates  through a  प्रणाली  of  supranational  independent institutions and intergovernmental  negotiated  decisions by the member states  .
संस्थानों  of the EU include  the  European Commission ,  the  Council of the  यूरोपीय  Union ,  the   यूरोपीय   परिषद  , the Court  of   इंसाफ   of   the  European Union  ,   the  European Central Bank , the Court of Auditors , and  the  European  पार्लियामेंट   .
The European  पार्लियामेंट   is  elected  प्रत्येक   पाँच  years  by   eu  citizens .
The EU 's de facto  पूंजी  is Brussels  .
The  eu   traces  its  origins  from the European Coal  और  Steel Community  (  ECSC ) and the European  आर्थिक   जातियाँ  ( EEC  )   ,  formed by the Inner  छह  countries in  1951  and 1958 respectively  .
In the intervening years  the  community and its  successors  have grown in  आकार  by the accession of new member states  और  in  शक्ति   by   the  addition of policy areas to its  remit  .
The Maastricht Treaty established  the  European  संघ  under  इसके   वर्तमान  name in  1993  .
The latest major  amendment   to  the constitutional basis of the  eu  , the Treaty of Lisbon , came  into  force in 2009  .
the   eu   रै   विकसित  a single market  through   a  standardised system of laws that apply in  सब  member states .
Within the Schengen  क्षेत्रफल  (  जिससे  includes 22  eu  and  4   non-eu  states ) passport controls have been abolished .
EU  नीतियों  aim to ensure the  फ़्री  movement of people , goods , services  ,   और   पूंजी  ,  enact  legislation in  इंसाफ  and home  अफेयर्स  , and maintain common policies on trade , agriculture , fisheries  और  regional  विकास  .
A monetary  संघ  , the  eurozone  , was established in 1999 and is  रचित  of 17 member states .
Through the Common Foreign  और   सुरक्षा  Policy the EU  रै   विकसित  a role  in  external  संबंध  and defence .
Permanent diplomatic missions  have  been  स्थापित  around the world  .
the  EU is  represented   at  the  संयुक्त  Nations  ,  the  wto  , the G8 and the  g-20   .
With a combined population of  over   500  million inhabitants  ,  or  7.3  %  of   the   संसार  population  ,  the EU ,  in  2012 ,  उत्पन्न  a nominal gross domestic product  (   जीडीपी  )  of  16.584  खरब  US  डॉलर   ,  representing  लगभग  20 % of the global GDP when measured in  शर्तें   of  purchasing power parity ,  और  represents the largest  नाममात्र  GDP  और  GDP PPP  in   the  world .
The EU was  the  recipient  of   the  2012 Nobel Peace Prize  .
the   वेल्स  national rugby league team represent  वेल्स  in international rugby  लीग   फ़ुटबॉल   मिलान  .
फिलहाल  the  टोली  is seventh in the RLIF World Rankings .
The team  यहूद  run under the auspices of  the   रग्बी  Football League  ,  but an  स्वतंत्र  body , Wales  रग्बी  League ,  अभी  runs the team from  कार्डिफ  .
A total  of  three Welsh players have been entered into the Rugby League Hall Of Fame .
समान   to  many other Welsh  नेशनल  sporting  टीमों  ,  वेल्स  strip  रै  been  primarily  red for many years  ,  including now  .
However  in   उनके  last World Cup campaign  in  2000  वे   किया   पहनें   a   कमीज़  featuring  the   वेल्श  flag ,  adding   a   टच  of green and  श्वेत   .
the  team is known as `` The Dragons '' and  so  the teams logo on the shirt is a red dragon .
The team date back  to  1907  ,  making  उन्हें  the third  oldest   नेशनल  side after  इंग्लैण्ड  and New Zealand .
और   it  was  a  touring New  जीलैंड   पक्ष  that Wales first played against in  1908   ,  winning 9-8 at  aberdare  .
Since then  वेल्स  have  regularly  played  इंग्लैण्ड   ,   चूंकि  1935 France , as well as  सत्कार  the touring  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and New Zealand teams  ,  although they  rarely   toured  themselves , not  playing   a   मैच   in  the  दक्षिणी  Hemisphere until 1975 .
For twenty-six  सालो  Wales competed against their  दो  biggest rivals , England and France  ,   in  the European Nations Cup , winning  the   ट्रॉफी  four times .
Wales have also competed in  the  World  कप   on   तीन  occasions , the first time being in 1975 .
In 1995 and 2000 they had their most successful  tournaments  to date  ,  surprisingly making  the  Semi-Finals  on  both occasions  पहले  being  पिटे   by  England and Australia respectively .
Wales failed to qualify  लिये   the  2008 World Cup  ,  being  the   दूसरी   उच्चतम   क्रमित  side  नहीं  to do so ,  having  lost to Scotland  on  points difference over  दो   मिलान  .
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became  the   नई  head  कोच  and appointed  ली  Briers as captain , having played  लिये   वेल्स   चूंकि   1998  .
In  हाल  seasons Wales  have  taken massive  strides  under former player Iestyn  हैरिस  who has coached Wales  to  back  to  back  यूरोपीय   कप   सफलताओं  , which  culminated  in a Four  राष्ट्र  appearance in 2011 .
Cardiomyopathy (  वस्तुतः  `` heart muscle disease ''  )   is  the measurable deterioration of  the  function of the myocardium (  the  heart muscle  )  for any reason ,  प्रायः  leading  to  heart failure  ;  common symptoms  हैं   dyspnea  ( breathlessness ) and  परिधीय   एडिमा   (   सूजन   of  the  टाँगे   )  .
People with  cardiomyopathy   हैं  often at risk  of  dangerous forms of irregular heart beat and sudden  हृदय   मौत  .
the   सबसे  common form of  cardiomyopathy   is  dilated cardiomyopathy .
बकवास   in  its literal meaning refers  to   the  act of  यौन  intercourse .
It is  an  English  शब्द  that is often  प्रयुक्त   as  a  profanity  , either to  denote  disdain or as an  intensifier   .
the  origin of the  शब्द  is obscure .
It is usually  माना  to  be   पहला  attested to  around  1475 , but it  may  be  considerably  older .
In  आधुनिक  usage ,  बकवास  and  इसके  derivatives  (  such  as  fucker and fucking ) can  be  used  in  the  स्थिति  of a noun ,  a  verb , an  क्रियाशील  or  an  adverb  .
There  हैं  many common phrases which make use of  the  word ,  as  well  as   a  number of  यौगिकों   incorporating   it  , such as  motherfucker  .
नोट  :  इस  article adopts the U.S.  विभाग  of Transportation 's definition of a passenger  गाडी   ,   to  mean a car or truck  ,  used for passengers , excluding buses and trains .
The United States  is  home to  the   largest   यात्री   गाडी  market of any country  in  the world  .
Overall , there were an estimated  254.4  million registered passenger vehicles in  the  United States  according   to  a  2007   बिन्दु  study  .
इस  number  ,  along with the average  आयु  of vehicles , has increased steadily since  1960  ,  indicating  a growing number  of   वाहनों   प्रति  capita  .
The Chinese car market  ,   however   ,  is  poised  to soon exceed the United States ; by  the  end of  2012  ,  वहीँ  were over 240  लाख  cars on the road  in  China  .
The United  राज्य   is   भी  home  to  three large  गाडी   निर्माताओं   :  General Motors , Ford  मोटर  Company and Chrysler ,  जिससे  have  historically  been referred to  as   the  `` Big  तीन   .   ''
क्रिसलर  however  is  no longer  among  the top three ; but is number  पाँच  , behind Toyota  और  Honda .
the  motor car  रै   clearly  become an integral part  of  American life , with  वाहनों   outnumbering  licensed drivers .
Clinical laboratory  in   a  Hospital setting showing several  स्वचालित   analysers  .
A  चिकित्सा  laboratory  or   नैदानिक  laboratory  is  a  प्रयोगशाला  where tests are done on clinical specimens in  अनुक्रम   to  get information about the health of a patient as pertaining to  the  diagnosis , treatment  ,   और  prevention of disease  .
In poker , players  construct   हैंड्स   of  five  ताश   according  to predetermined rules , which vary according  to   जिससे  variant of poker  is  being played .
These hands are compared  using   a  hand  रैंकिंग   प्रणाली  that is  मानक  across all variants of  पोकर  ,  the  player  साथ  the highest-ranking  हाथ  winning that particular deal  in   सबसे  variants of  पोकर  .
In some variants  ,  the  lowest-ranking  hand  can   जीत   or  tie .
These  हाथ  rankings are  भी  used in  कुछ  other card  खेल  ,  और  in poker dice .
The  रैंकिंग  of  a  particular hand is increased by  सहित  multiple cards of the same  कार्ड   रैंक  ,  by  all five cards being  इससे  the same  सूट  , or  by   सब  five cards being  of  consecutive rank .
the  relative ranking  of  the various hand categories is based on the  संभाव्यता  of being randomly dealt such a hand from a  well-  shuffled  डेक   .
ब्रूस  Randall Hornsby ( born November 23  ,  1954 ) is  an   अमरीकी   virtuoso  ; a  सिंगर  , pianist ,  सिंथेसाइज़र   ,  accordion , and dulcimer player , and  songwriter   .
Known  लिये   the  spontaneity  और  creativity of his  सजीव   प्रदर्शन  , Hornsby draws  अक्सर   इससे  classical , jazz ,  ब्लूग्रास  , folk  ,  Motown , gospel ,  चट्टान  ,  ब्लूज़   ,  and jam band musical traditions with his songwriting  और   the   seamless  improvisations contained within .
Hornsby 's recordings  have  been recognised on  a  number of  अवसरों   साथ   उद्योग  awards , including the Best  नई  Artist Grammy in 1987  साथ  Bruce Hornsby and  the  Range , the Best Bluegrass  रिकॉर्डिंग  Grammy in 1990  ,  and  the   बेहतरीन  Pop  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल  Grammy  in  1993  .
Hornsby has  भी  achieved recognition for his solo albums and  प्रदर्शन  , his touring  बैंड  Bruce Hornsby  और  the Noisemakers ,  उसके   ब्लूग्रास  project  साथ   रिकी   skaggs  and his appearances  as  a session- and guest-musician  .
he  also  collaborated   साथ  Grateful  मुर्दे  and  थी  a member of the  बैंड  from September 1990 to  कूच   1992  , playing at over  एक  hundred shows during  कि  period .
Sugarcane  वृक्षारोपण  in rural Cuba
Agriculture  in  Cuba has played  an   महत्वपूर्ण  part  in   the  economy  लिये   अनेक   सौ   सालो   .
कृषि   contributes  less than 10 percent  to   the  gross domestic product ( GDP  )  , but it  employs  roughly 20  प्रतिशत  of the working population  .
परिचय  30  प्रतिशत  of the  देश   's   जमीन  is used for crop cultivation  .
The inefficient agricultural industry  in  Cuba has led  to  the need to import large amounts  of  foods .
Cuba now imports about 80 %  of  the food  it   rations   to  the  पब्लिक  .
The rationing program  खाते  for about a  तीसरा  of  the  food energy the average Cuban  consumes  .
overall   ,  however , Cuba is  निर्भर  on imports  लिये  only 16  %  of its food  .
सही
Mega Millions  (  initially  पुकारा  The  बिग   खेल  Mega Millions as  the  successor of The  बिग   खेल   )  is  an  American multi-jurisdictional $ 1  लॉटरी  game  .
The  पहला  ( The  बिग  Game ) Mega Millions  आरेखण  was in 2002 ( see below ) .
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot  is   $  12,000,000 , paid in  26  equal  वार्षिक  installments ( unless the cash option  is  chosen )  ;  usually , the jackpot increases when there is no top-prize  विजेता  .
However ,  despite  no jackpot winner for the $ 12,000,000 December 18  ,  2012  आरेखण  ,  the   जैकपॉट  remained at $ 12,000,000 for  the  drawing to be held  on  December 21  .
(   देखिए   नीचे  for information on how  the  game 's jackpot is funded .  )
reflecting   आम   अभ्यास  among American lotteries , the  जैकपॉट  is  advertised  as a  नाममात्र  value of annual installments  .
a  cash value option  (  the  usual  choice ) , when chosen by  a  jackpot winner  (  see below ) , pays  the  approximate present  मान  of the  किश्तों   .
Mega Millions  फिलहाल  uses a 5/56 ( white balls )  प्लस  1/46  (  the Mega  बॉल  ) double matrix  to  select its winning numbers .
Each game  लागत   $  1 .
in  43  of  the 44 Mega  लाखो  jurisdictions ( California is the exception ) ,  वहीँ   is  an  विकल्प   ,   पुकारा   megaplier   (  such games are  $  2  प्रत्येक   )   जहाँ  non-jackpot prizes  हैं  multiplied by 2  ,  3 , or 4 .
The Megaplier was made available  to  all Mega Millions jurisdictions in  जनवरी   2011  ; it  began  as a Texas  -only  option .
Mega Millions is  drawn  at  10:59  p.m. Eastern time Tuesdays  और  Fridays  ,  including  छुट्टियाँ  .
Mega Millions  is  administered  by  a  consortium  of its 12 original lotteries and the drawings are  आयोजित   at   wsb-tv  in Atlanta , Georgia .
पर्यवेक्षित  by the  जॉर्जिया  Lottery .
The largest jackpot in Mega Millions , as well as in  अमरीकी   लॉटरी   इतिहास  , was $  656,000,000  annuitized ( with a cash option of $  474,000,000   )   लिये   the  March 30  ,  2012 drawing  in  which  वहीँ   यहूद   तीन  jackpot-winning tickets  ;  one  प्रत्येक  in Illinois , Kansas  ,  and Maryland .
All three  टिकटें  had been claimed as of April 18  ,  with each set of winners choosing the cash  विकल्प  .
is  a  Japanese  manga  series created  by  writer  tsugumi  Ohba and  manga  artist Takeshi Obata  .
The main character is Light Yagami  ,   a   ऊँची   स्कूल   छात्र  who  discovers  a supernatural notebook , the  ``  Death  नोट  '' , dropped on Earth by  a  shinigami  (  a god  of  death ) named  ryuk   .
The Death Note grants its user the ability  to   मार  anyone whose  नाम   और   फेस  they  जान  , by writing the name  in  the  कोपी  while  picturing  their  फेस  .
The  श्रेणी  centers around  लाइट  's attempt to  बनाएँ  and rule a world `` cleansed of  दुष्ट  '' as `` God ''  using  the notebook  ,  and the efforts of a detective known  as  L to stop  उसे  .
Death  नोट   थी   पहला  serialized in 108 chapters  by  Shueisha in  the   जापानी  manga  पत्रिका   साप्ताहिक  Shōnen Jump from December 2003 to  may  2006 .
The  श्रेणी  was  भी   प्रकाशित  in  tankōbon   स्वरूप   in  Japan  starting  in  may   2004  and  समाप्ति  in October 2006 with a total  of  thirteen  आयतन   .
the  anime series  aired   in  Japan from October 3 , 2006 , to June 26 ,  2007   .
Composed  of  37 episodes , the anime  थी  developed  by  Madhouse  और   निर्देशित  by Tetsuro  araki  .
A  लाइट  novel  आधारित  on  the  series , written by Nisio Isin , was  released  in Japan .
Additionally , various video games have been  प्रकाशित   by  Konami for Nintendo DS  .
The series  थी  adapted into live-action films  released  in Japan  on   जून   17  , 2006 , November 3  ,   2006   ,  and February  2  , 2008 .
Viz Media licensed  the   मौत   नोट  manga  in  North America and has published all the  बारह   आयतन  from the series , a 13th volume  जिससे  serves as  a  `` reader 's  मार्गदर्शिका  '' , as well  as   the  light novels .
the  episodes from  the   दुश्मनी  first appeared in North  अमेरिका  as  downloadable  by IGN  .
Viz  बाद   licensed  the  दुश्मनी   श्रेणी   और  it  aired  on Bionix in  कनाडा  and on Cartoon Network in  the  United States .
the  live-action  films  briefly played in certain North  अमरीकी  theaters since 2008 .
However , none of  the  video  खेल   have  thus  दूर  been published in North America or Europe  .
Death  नोट  is  एक  of Weekly Shōnen Jumps best-selling  manga  series of all time  ,   साथ  sales  over  26.5 million copies .
Halloween  or   hallowe'en  ( a  संकुचन   of  ``  सब  Hallows '  संध्या   ``  ) , also known  as  All Hallows ' Eve ,  is  a yearly celebration observed in a number of countries on October 31 ,  the  eve  of  the Western Christian  feast  of  सब   hallows   (  or All Saints ) and the  दिन   initiating  the triduum of Hallowmas .
according  to many  विद्वानों  ,  सब   hallows   '  Eve  is  a Christianised  feast  originally influenced by western European harvest  त्यौहार  ,  और  festivals  of  the dead  साथ  possible pagan roots ,  विशेषकर   the  Celtic Samhain .
Other  विद्वानों  maintain  कि  it originated  independently  of Samhain  और  has solely  ईसाई  roots  .
Typical  त्यौहार  Halloween activities  शामिल   trick-or-treating  ( also known as  ``  guising ``  )  , attending costume parties  ,  carving pumpkins  into  jack-o'-lanterns , lighting  bonfires   ,  apple bobbing , visiting haunted  आकर्षण   ,   playing  pranks ,  telling  scary stories  ,  and watching horror films .
नई   यॉर्क   नगर  taxicabs during Midtown rush hour in Manhattan
the   taxicabs   of  New York City  ,   साथ  their  distinctive  yellow paint  ,   हैं  a  widely   पहचाना   प्रतीक  of the  नगर  .
Taxicabs  हैं  operated by private companies and licensed by the New York City Taxi  और  Limousine Commission ( TLC ) .
It  भी  oversees over 40,000  अन्य  for-hire vehicles , including ``  ब्लैक   गाड़ियाँ  '' ,  commuter  vans and ambulettes  .
``  medallion   टैक्सी   ,  '' the familiar yellow cabs , are the  तभी  vehicles  in  the city permitted  to  pick up  यात्री   in  response to a  गली  hail .
Schematic cross section of part  of  leaf  ,   जाइलम  shown as  रेड   वृत्त  at  फिगर  8 .
जाइलम  is one  of  the  दो   प्रकार  of transport tissue in vascular plants  (   फ्लोएम  is  the   अन्य  ) .
the   शब्द   जाइलम  is derived  इससे  the Greek word  ξύλον  ( xylon ) ,  अर्थ  `` wood  ''   ;   the   best-known   जाइलम  tissue  is   लकडी   ,  though it is  मिला  throughout the plant .
Its basic function is to transport water  ,   लकिन  it also  transports  some  nutrients  through  the  plant  .
U.S.  महिलाओं  suffragists  demonstrating  for the right to vote ,  फ़रवरी  1913 .
Women 's suffrage  भी   ज्ञात  as woman suffrage is the  सही   of  women to vote and to run for office .
Limited voting rights  यहूद  gained  by  women in Sweden , Finland and  कुछ  western  u.S.  states in  the  late 19th century .
International organizations were formed to coordinate efforts , especially the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Council  of  Women ( 1888 ) and  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Woman Suffrage Alliance ( 1904  )   .
In 1893  ,  New Zealand , then a self-governing British colony , granted adult  महिलाओं  the  सही  to  vote  and the  self-governing  British colony of South  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  did the  वही  in 1895  ,   लकिन  also permitted women to  चलाएं  for office  .
ऑस्ट्रेलिया  federated in 1901 , and women acquired the  सही  to vote and stand in federal elections from 1902 , though  uneven  restrictions on Aboriginal women voting in national  चुनावों  were not completely removed  जबतक  1962  .
the  first European country  to   introduce  women 's suffrage was the Grand  duchy  of Finland ,  तब  part  of  the  रूसी   साम्राज्य   ,  which also  उत्पादित  the  संसार  's first female  सदस्यों   of  parliament in  the  1907  संसदीय  elections .
Norway  followed  ,  granting  full women  's   suffrage  in 1913  .
In most Western countries  ,   महिलाओं  's suffrage came  बाद  World I War I  i  ,  साथ  some important  लेट   अनुकूलक  being France in 1944  और  Switzerland in  1971  .
Women  's  suffrage  रै  generally been recognized after  राजनैतिक  campaigns to obtain  it  were waged .
In many countries it was granted before universal suffrage  .
Women 's  suffrage  is explicitly  stated  as  a  right  अंतर्गत  the Convention  on  the Elimination  of  All  फ़ॉर्म  of Discrimination  विरूद्ध  Women , adopted by  the   संयुक्त  Nations  in  1979 .
The  तेरहवीं  Tale ( 2006 )  by  Diane Setterfield  is  a gothic suspense novel ,  the  author 's first  प्रकाशित   किताब  .
यहोवा  's  गवाह  is a  millenarian  restorationist Christian denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs  पृथक  from mainstream Christianity .Sources  लिये   descriptors  : •  millenarian  :  •  Restorationist : • Christian  :  • Denomination  :   the  organization reports worldwide membership of  over  7.78 million adherents  शामिल  in  इंजीलवाद  ,  सम्मेलन   उपस्थिति  of over 12 million  ,   और  annual Memorial attendance of  over  19 million .
वे  are  निर्देशित   by   the  Governing Body  of  Jehovah 's Witnesses  ,   a  group of elders in  ब्रुकलीन   ,   नई  York , that  establishes  all doctrines .
Jehovah 's  गवाह  ' beliefs are based on  उनके  interpretations  of  the  बाइबल   और  they prefer to  उपयोग  their own  अनुवाद  ,  the  New  संसार  Translation of the Holy Scriptures .
They believe  कि   the   विनाश  of  the   उपस्थित  world  प्रणाली  at Armageddon is imminent ,  और  that  the  establishment  of  God  's  kingdom on earth is the  तभी  solution  लिये  all problems faced  by   mankind  .
The group emerged from the  बाइबल   छात्र  movement —founded in  the  late 1870s by Charles Taze  रसेल   साथ   the   गठन   of  Zion 's Watch Tower Tract Society —with  significant  organizational and  doctrinal  changes  अंतर्गत  the leadership  of  Joseph  फ्रैंकलिन   रदरफोर्ड  .
The name  यहोवा   's  witnesses , based  on  Isaiah 43:10–12 ,  थी  adopted  in  1931 to distinguish themselves from other Bible Student groups and symbolize a break with the legacy of Russell 's  परंपराओं  .
Jehovah  's  Witnesses are  बेहतरीन  known for  उनके  door-to-door  उपदेश   ,   distributing   साहित्य   ऐसे  as The Watchtower and Awake !
,  and  refusing  military service and blood transfusions .
वे   consider   उपयोग   of  the name Jehovah  vital   लिये  proper worship  .
They reject  trinitarianism   ,   अंतर्निहित  immortality  of  the soul  ,  and hellfire , which they consider  to   be   unscriptural   doctrines  .
वे  do  नहीं  observe Christmas ,  ईस्टर   ,  birthdays , or  अन्य   छुट्टियाँ   और  customs they  consider   to  have pagan  origins   असंगत  with Christianity .
Adherents  commonly  refer to their body of  मान्यताओं  as `` the truth '' and consider themselves to be ``  in  the truth ''  .
They  consider   धर्मनिरपेक्ष  society to be  morally  corrupt  और  under the  influence  of Satan  ,  and  सबसे   सीमा   उनके   सोशल   बातचीत  with  non-witnesses  .
संकीर्तन  disciplinary  क्रियाएँ  include disfellowshipping ,  उनके   पद   लिये  formal expulsion and  shunning   .
Baptized individuals  जो   formally  leave are considered disassociated  और   हैं  also shunned .
disfellowshipped   और   disassociated   individuals   may  eventually  be   reinstated  if  deemed  repentant .
The religion 's position regarding conscientious  आपत्ति  to  सैन्य  service and refusal to salute  नेशनल  flags has  brought   it  into conflict  साथ  some  सरकारें  .
Consequently ,  यहोवा   's  Witnesses have been  persecuted   और  their activities  हैं   बैन  or restricted in  कुछ  countries  .
Persistent  विधिक  challenges  by  Jehovah 's  गवाह  have influenced legislation related to civil rights in several  देशों  .
पिछला   टैंगो  in Paris  (   )   is  a 1972 Franco-Italian  रोमांटिक  Drama  फिल्मी  directed by Bernardo Bertolucci  जिससे   portrays  a  हाल  American widower who  begins  an  बेनाम  sexual  संबंध   साथ  a young ,  betrothed  Parisian woman .
It stars  मार्लोन  Brando , Maria Schneider , and  jean-pierre  Léaud  .
The film  's   कच्चा  portrayal  of  sexual violence and emotional turmoil led to international  विवाद  and  खींचा  various  स्तर  of  सरकारी   सेंसरशिप   .
the  MPAA  दिया  the film an X  दरजा  upon release in  the   संयुक्त  States .
After revisions were  बना  to the  mpaa   दरजा  code , it was  वर्गीकृत  as  an  NC-17 in 1997 .
mgm  released  a  censored R-rated  काटें   in  1981 .
The  फिल्मी  has its NC-17 rating  लिये  `` some  सुस्पष्ट  sexual content . ''
खिड़कियाँ  XP is an operating  प्रणाली  produced by  microsoft   लिये  use on personal  कंप्यूटर   ,   सहित  home and business desktops , laptops and media centers .
First  released  to computer manufacturers  on  August  24   ,  2001 , it is  the  second most popular version of Windows  ,  based on installed user base .
the   नाम  ``  xp  '' is short  लिये  ``  अनुभव   ''  ,  highlighting  the enhanced user experience .
खिड़कियाँ  XP , the  successor   to   खिड़कियाँ   2000  and Windows ME , was the first consumer-oriented operating system produced by Microsoft to  be  built on the Windows  nt   कर्नेल  .
Windows XP was  released  worldwide for retail sale on  अक्तूबर   25  ,  2001  , and over 400 million copies were in use in  जनवरी  2006 .
It was  succeeded  by Windows Vista  in  January 2007 .
सीधा  OEM and  खुदरा   बिक्री  of Windows XP ceased on  जून  30 ,  2008  .
Microsoft  जारी   to  sell Windows XP through their System  बिल्डर   (   छोटी  OEMs who sell assembled computers ) program until January 31 , 2009  .
On  अप्रैल  10 , 2012 ,  microsoft  reaffirmed that extended support  लिये  Windows XP  और  Office 2003 would end on April  8  , 2014 and  सुझाया   कि  administrators begin preparing  to  migrate to  a  newer OS  .
The NT -based versions  of  Windows , which are  प्रोग्रामित   in  C  ,  C++ , and  सभा  ,  हैं  known for their improved stability and  दक्षता   over  the 9x  संस्करण   of   microsoft  Windows .
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical  उपयोक्ता  interface  ,  a  बदलें  Microsoft  प्रचारित  as more user-friendly than previous versions of Windows .
In an  attempt  to  further  ameliorate the `` DLL hell  ``  that plagued the past versions  of  Windows , improved side-by-side assembly  प्रौद्योगिकी   in  Windows  xp  allows side-by-side  संस्थापना  , registration and servicing of multiple versions of globally shared software  components  in full isolation .
It is also  the   पहला  version  of   खिड़कियाँ  to  उपयोग   उत्पाद  activation to combat illegal copying .
During Windows  xp   's  development , the  प्रोजेक्ट  was codenamed `` Whistler  ''   ,   बाद   whistler   ,   अंग्रेजों  Columbia , as many Microsoft  कर्मचारी  skied at  the  Whistler-Blackcomb ski  रिज़ॉर्ट  .
according   to  web analytics data generated  by  Net Applications ,  खिड़कियाँ   xp  was the most widely  प्रयुक्त  operating system until  अगस्त   2012  , when  खिड़कियाँ  7  overtook  it .
,  Windows XP market share  is  at 38.99 % , having decreased almost every  माह   चूंकि  at  तनिक  November 2007  ,  the  पहला  month for which statistics are publicly available from Net Applications .
``  पोर  una Cabeza  ''  is  an  Argentine  टैंगो   साथ  music and lyrics  लिखा  in 1935  by   कार्लोस   gardel  and  अल्फ्रेडो  Le Pera respectively .
The  नाम   is   a  Spanish  horse-racing   phrase  meaning  ``   by  a head  ''  , which refers to a  घोड़ा  winning a race by the  लंबाई   of  one head .
The  गीत   बोलो  of a  बाध्यता  horse-track gambler who compares his addiction  लिये  horses with his attraction to  महिलाओं  .
Alfredo Le Pera was a Brazilian from  são  Paulo ,  a  much Italian-influenced  क्षेत्रफल  in Brazil ,  और  also the  जन्मस्थान  of  zequinha  de Abreu ,  composer  of Tico-Tico no Fubá  .
Le Pera and Gardel died  in  an airplane crash in Medellín ,  (  Colombia ) , on  जून  24 , 1935 .
Por una Cabeza
The tango  रै   चूंकि  been performed  by  numerous tango orchestras .
Tango scenes  साथ   ``   पोर   ऊना  Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ) , Scent  of   a   स्त्री  ( 1992  )  , Schindler 's List  (  1993 ) , True  झूठ  ( 1994 )  ,  Titanic ( 1996 ) , Bad Santa  (   uncut   संस्करण  ,  2003  ) , All the King 's  मेन  (  2006  ) , Planet 51  (   2009  )  ,   एपीसोड   37   of   nip/tuck  ( 2003–2010 )  ,  episode 9  of  South  कोरियाई  drama  श्रेणी   मीठी  Spy ( 2005–08 ) ,  the  beginning  और  ending credits  of  the South Korean drama broadcast I 'm Sorry , I Love You (  2004  ) ,  और  the  एपीसोड   ``  Down the Rabbit  छेद   ``  ( 2007  )   .
In  the  movie Frida (  सलमा   हायेक   ,  2002 ) , Gardel is heard  गायन   it  on a  रेडियो  .
it  is  भी  quoted  in   दाउद   डेल  Tredici 's `` Good News  !
Nilda  is  Back ''  (  from the song cycle  miz   inez  Sez ) .
in  Scent  of  a  स्त्री  ( 1992  )  , the tango  is   performed  by the  ``  The Tango Project '' ,  जो  actually appear  in  the dancing scene starring Al  पचिनो  ( the recording  प्रयुक्त   is  available on  एक  of their CD albums ) .
John Williams  arranged   a  version of the piece that  appears  on the album `` Cinema  serenade  ''  साथ  the violin  सोलो  performed by Itzhak Perlman .
Perlman and Williams  (  conducting  )  have  भी   performed  the piece together in  सजीव   कॉन्सर्ट  .
In 2012  a   नृत्य   संस्करण   थी   released  by the  समूह   ``   da  Carrera ''  featuring  the original vocal  रिकॉर्डिंग   by   कार्लोस  Gardel  .
The  baroreflex  or baroreceptor reflex  is  one of  the  body 's homeostatic  mechanisms   लिये  maintaining blood pressure  .
It  provides   a  negative feedback loop  in   जिससे   an   elevated  blood pressure reflexively causes heart  रेट  to decrease therefore causing  रक्त   दबाव  to decrease ; likewise  ,  decreased  रक्त  pressure  activates  the baroreflex ,  causing  heart rate  to  increase thus causing  an   बढ़ाएँ   in  blood  दबाव   .
The system relies on  specialized  neurons ,  ज्ञात  as baroreceptors  ,  in  the  aortic arch  ,  carotid  साइनस  , and elsewhere to monitor changes  in  blood pressure and relay them to  the  brainstem  .
Subsequent changes in  रक्त   दबाव  are mediated by the autonomic nervous system .
अलिंदी  natriuretic peptide forms a parallel  ऋणात्मक  feedback loop in  an  endocrinological contrast to the renin-angiotensin  प्रणाली  .
the   loma   prieta  earthquake , also  ज्ञात   as  the Quake  of   '89  and  the  World  श्रेणी  Earthquake , was a major earthquake that  struck  the San Francisco Bay Area of California on October  17  , 1989 , at  5:04  pm local  समय  .
Caused  by  a slip along the San Andreas Fault  ,   the   भूकंप  lasted  10–15  seconds and measured 6.9 on both the  पल   परिमाण   स्केल  ( surface-wave magnitude 7.1 )  और   on  the open-ended Richter  स्केल  .
The quake killed  63  people  throughout  northern California , injured 3,757  और  left  कुछ  3,000–12,000 people homeless .
the  earthquake occurred  दौरान   the   warm-up  practice for  the  third  खेल  of  the  1989 World Series  ,   featuring  both  of  the Bay  क्षेत्रफल  's Major League Baseball teams ,  the   ओकलैंड  Athletics  और   the  San Francisco Giants .
Because of game-related sports coverage  ,  this was the first  प्रमुख  earthquake  in  the United  राज्य  to  have   इसके   आरंभिक  jolt broadcast live on  टेलीविज़न  .
साहूकार  in the standard Staunton pattern
the  pawn ( ♙♟ ) is  the  most numerous and in most circumstances  the  weakest piece in the  खेल  of chess  ,  historically representing  infantry   or  ,  अधिक  particularly , armed peasants  or   pikemen  .
In chess , each player begins the game with eight  प्यादे  ,  एक  on each square  of  the  रैंक  immediately in front of the other pieces .
(  In algebraic notation , the white pawns start  on  a2 , b2 , c2 , ... , h2  ,   जबकि   ब्लैक  pawns start on a7 , b7  ,  c7 ,  ...  , h7 . )
व्यक्तिगत   प्यादे  are  referred   to  by the file on which  वे  stand  .
लिये  example , one speaks of `` White  's  f-pawn ''  or  `` Black  's   b-pawn   ''  , or less commonly  (  using descriptive notation  )   ,  `` White 's king 's bishop pawn ''  or  `` Black 's queen 's  नाईट  pawn '' .
it  is also common to refer  to  a  rook  pawn , meaning any  साहूकार   on  the  a-  or  h-file  ,  a  knight  साहूकार  ( on  the  b-  or  g-file )  ,   a  bishop pawn ( on the c-  or  f-file ) ,  a  queen pawn (  on  the  d-file  ) ,  a   किंग  pawn ( on the e-file )  ,   और  a central  साहूकार   (  on  either   the   d-  or e-file )  .
the  military forces of the world have  differing  approaches to  the   enlistment  of homosexual (  gay  and  लेस्बियन   )   और  bisexual individuals .
the  armed forces of most developed countries have now removed  नीतियों  excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with  सख्त  policies on sexual  उत्पीड़न  )  .
Nations that permit gay people  to  serve openly  in   the   सैन्य  include  the  4  of   the  5  सदस्यों  of the UN Security Council ( United  राज्य   ,  United Kingdom  ,  France  ,  and Russia ) , the Republic of China ( Taiwan ) , Australia  ,  Israel  ,   दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी   ,  Argentina ,  और  all  नाटो   सदस्यों  excluding Turkey  .
हाइड्रोजन  production  is  the family  of  industrial methods  लिये   generating  hydrogen .
फिलहाल  the dominant technology for direct production  is  steam reforming  इससे  hydrocarbons .
Many other methods are  ज्ञात  including electrolysis and thermolysis .
in  2006 ,  the   संयुक्त  States  थी   अनुमानित   to  have a production  क्षमता   of  11 million tonnes of hydrogen .
5   लाख  tonnes of hydrogen were  खपत  on-site in oil refining , and in the  उत्पादन   of  ammonia (  haber  process  )  and  methanol  ( reduction  of  carbon  मोनोऑक्साइड  )  .
0.4  लाख  tonnes  यहूद  an  incidental  by-product  of   the  chlor-alkali process .
Hydrogen  उत्पादन  is an estimated $ 100  अरब  industry  .
A  आधार  point ( often denoted  as   bp  , colloquially referred to in  the   बहुवचन   as  `` bips ''  ,  also  ज्ञात  as  a  `` beep ''  )  is a  ईकाई  equal to  एक  hundredth of a percentage point  ,  or one  भाग  per ten thousand  ,   1/10000  .
the  same unit is also ( rarely  )  called a permyriad , literally meaning 'for ( every  )  myriad  (   टेन  thousand )  '  , and in  कि  context is written  साथ   जिससे  looks like  a  percent sign (  %  ) with two  अतिरिक्त   zeroes  at the end (  जैसे  a stylized form of the  चार  zeros in the denominator  ,  although  it  originates  as  a natural extension of the percent  (   %   )  and permille  (  ‰  )   लक्षण   )  .
A basis point  is  defined as:
1 basis point = 1 permyriad =  एक   one-hundredth   प्रतिशत
1 bp  =   1  =  0.01  % = 0.1‰ =  10−4  = =  0.0001
1  %  = 100 bp = 100
Basis  अंक   हैं  used  as   a  convenient unit  of   मापन   in  contexts  जहाँ  percentage  मतभेद  of less than 1 % are discussed  .
The  सबसे  common  उदाहरण   is  interest rates ,  जहाँ  differences  in   ब्याज  rates  of  less than  1   %   प्रति   साल  are usually meaningful  to  talk about .
For example  ,  a difference of 0.10 percentage points is equivalent  to  a change  of   10  basis  अंक   (  e.g . a 4.67 %  रेट  increases by 10 basis points to 4.77  %  ) .
Like  प्रतिशत  points , basis points avoid  the  ambiguity between  सापेक्ष  and absolute discussions about interest  दरों   by  dealing only  साथ  the  निरपेक्ष  change in  न्यूमेरिक  value  of   a  rate  .
For example ,  if   a  report says there  रै  been  a  `` 1  %   बढ़ाएँ  '' from a 10  %  interest  रेट   ,  this could refer to an  बढ़ाएँ  either from 10 % to 10.1  %   (  relative , 1 % of 10 %  )   ,  or from 10  %  to 11 % ( absolute , 1  %   प्लस   10   %   )  .
if  , however , the report  says   वहीँ  has been a `` 10 basis point increase  ''  from  a  10 %  ब्याज  rate ,  तब  we know that  the   ब्याज  rate of  10  % has increased by  0.10  % (  the  absolute change  )  to a  10.1  % rate .
it   is  common  अभ्यास  in the financial  उद्योग   to  use basis  अंक  to denote a rate  बदलें   in  a financial instrument  ,  or the difference (  स्प्रेड   )   between  two interest rates  ,   सहित  the yields  of   fixed-income  securities  .
Since certain loans  और  bonds may  commonly   be  quoted in relation to some  अनुक्रमणिका  or underlying security  ,   वे   होगा  often be quoted as a spread over ( or under  )  the index .
For example , a loan that bears interest of 0.50 %  प्रति  annum above the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) is  कहा  to  be  50 basis  अंक   over   libor  , which is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps  ''   or  simply  ``  L+50 ''  .
The term `` basis point '' has its  origins  in  व्यापार   the  ``  आधार   ''   or  the spread between two interest rates .
चूंकि   the  basis  is  usually small , these are quoted multiplied up  by  10000 ,  और   hence  a ``  पूरा  point '' movement in the  ``   आधार  ''  is   a  basis point .
Contrast with pips in FX forward markets .
the  relationship between percentage changes and  आधार  points can be summarized as follows : 1 percentage  पाइंट  change =  100   आधार   अंक  , and  0.01  percentage  अंक  = 1 basis  पाइंट  .
So , a  बंध  whose yield  increases  from  5  %  to   5.5  % is said to increase by  50   आधार  points ; or interest rates that have risen 1 percentage point are said to  have  increased  by   100  basis points .
The British  royal   परिवार   is  the group of close relatives of the  monarch   of   the  United  किंगडम   .
The term  is   भी  commonly  लागू  to the same group  of   लोगों  who  हैं   the  relations of  the  monarch  in  her  or   उसके  role as  sovereign  of any of the  अन्य  Commonwealth realms , thus sometimes  at   variance  with official national terms for the family .
Members  of   the   royal  Family belong to  ,  either  by  birth  or  marriage , the  हाउस  of Windsor  ,  since  1917  , when George  v   बदला   the   नाम  of the royal house  इससे  Saxe-Coburg and Gotha .
This decision was primarily taken  क्युकी  Britain  और  her  साम्राज्य  were  at  war with  जर्मनी   और  given  the  British  royal   परिवार   's  strong German ancestry  ;  it  थी  felt that its public  चित्र   could  be  improved   by  choosing a more British house  नाम  .
the  new  नाम   चुनी   ,   विंडसर  , had absolutely  no  connection other  than  as  the   नाम   of   the   किला   जिससे  was  और  continues  to  be a  royal  residence  .
हालांकि  in the United Kingdom there is  no  strict legal  or  formal definition of who is or is not a member of the  royal  Family  ,   और   अलग  lists will include different people ,  those  carrying the style Her or His Majesty ( HM ) , or Her or  उसके   royal  Highness (  hrh  ) are always considered members  ,   जिससे   प्रायः  results in the application of the term to the  monarch  ,  the  consort of  the  monarch , the widowed  consorts   of  previous monarchs , the  children  of the  monarch   और  previous monarchs ,  the  male-line grandchildren of  the  monarch and  पिछला  monarchs , and the spouses  और  the widows of a monarch 's and  पिछला   monarch   's   बेटे   और  male-line grandsons .
On 30 November 1917 ,  किंग  George  v   जारी  Letters Patent defining who are members of the  royal   परिवार  ;  the  text  of   the  notice  इससे  the  लंदन  Gazette is as  follows:
In 1996 ,  उसके  Majesty The Queen modified these  अक्षर   पेटेंट  , as was  evidenced  by this Notice  इससे  the London Gazette:
in  2013 Letters  पेटेंट  were issued to extend a title and a  स्टाइल  borne by members of the  royal  Family to additional persons to  be   born  , evidenced by this  सूचना  from the  लंदन  Gazette:
Members and relatives of the British  royal   परिवार   historically  represented the monarch  in  various places throughout the British  साम्राज्य   ,   sometimes  for  विस्तारित  periods as viceroys , or  लिये   विशिष्ट  ceremonies or  कार्यक्रम  .
आज   ,  they often perform ceremonial and social duties throughout the  संयुक्त  Kingdom and abroad on behalf  of  the United  किंगडम  .
aside   इससे   the   monarch  , their  तभी  constitutional  भूमिका  in the affairs of government  is  to serve ,  if  eligible and when appointed by letters patent ,  as   a  Counsellor of  राज्य   ,  two or  अधिक  of whom  कसरत  the  प्राधिकार  of the  क्राउन  ( within stipulated limits )  in  the indisposal  or  absence from the British realm of the  monarch  .
in  the other realms of the Commonwealth  रॉयल्टी  do not serve as Counsellors of State .
however  in  प्रत्येक  such realm the monarch 's family members  may  act on  निमित्त   of   ,   हैं  funded by  ,   और  represent  the   sovereign  of  कि   particular  state ,  और  not the United  किंगडम   .
The  महारानी  ,  उसके  consort ,  उसके   children  and grandchildren ,  as   खूब   as  all former sovereigns ' children  और  grandchildren  थाम  places in the  पहला   भाग   of  the official  आदेश  of precedence  in  England and Wales  ,   स्कॉटलैंड  , and Northern Ireland .
Wives  of   the   कहा  enjoy  उनके  husbands  '  precedence , and  पतियों  of princesses are unofficially but  habitually  placed  साथ  their wives  as  well .
however   ,  the Queen changed the  निजी  order of precedence in  the  Royal  परिवार  in favour of  राजकुमारियों  Anne  और  Alexandra , who henceforth take private  पूर्वता  over the Duchess of Cornwall  ,   जो  is otherwise the realm 's highest  रैंकिंग  woman after the Queen herself  .
She did  नहीं  alter  the  relative  पूर्वता  of other  born-princesses  , such as the daughters  of   उसके  younger sons .
हैती  ( ; Haitian  क्रियोल   ayiti  ) , officially  the  Republic of Haiti  (  ; )  ,  is a Caribbean  देश   .
it  occupies  the   पश्चिमी  , smaller portion of  the  island  of  Hispaniola  ,   in  the  वृहद  Antillean archipelago ,  जिससे  it shares  साथ  the Dominican Republic .
ayiti  (  जमीन  of  ऊँची   kyu  ) was the indigenous Taíno or  amerindian   नाम  for the  द्वीप  .
The  देश  's  उच्चतम  point is Pic la  selle  , at .
The total area of Haiti  is  and its  पूंजी  is Port-au-Prince .
Haitian Creole  और   फ्रेंच  are  the  official  भाषाएं   .
Haiti 's regional  ,  historical ,  और  ethno-linguistic  स्थिति  is  अद्वितीय  for several  कारण  .
it  was the first  स्वतंत्र  nation of Latin  अमेरिका   और  the Caribbean , the first black  -led   गणतंत्र  in the world , and the second republic in  the  Americas when it gained independence in 1804 as part of a successful slave revolution  स्थायी  nearly a  दशक   .
In 2012 , Haiti announced its intention  to  seek associate membership status in the African Union .
Haiti is  the  most  populous  of the predominantly  francophone  independent  राष्ट्र  in the Americas .
It is  एक   of   तभी  two  स्वतंत्र  nations in the Americas ( along with Canada ) to designate  फ्रेंच   as  an official language ; the other French-speaking  क्षेत्रों  are  सब   विदेशी  départements ,  or  collectivités ,  of  France .
Haiti  is   the  most populous full  member-state  of  the  Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ) .
It  is  the poorest country in the  americas  as measured  by  the Human Development Index .
Political violence  रै   occurred  regularly throughout  इसके   इतिहास  , leading to government instability .
Most  recently   ,  in February 2004 ,  a  coup d'état originating  in   the  north of the  देश   मजबूर  the resignation and exile of President Jean-Bertrand  aristide  .
A provisional government took control  साथ  security provided  by   the  United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (  minustah   )  .
Michel  martelly  ,  the  current president , was  निर्वाचित  in  the   haitian  general election  ,  2011 .
The  द्वीप   रै   था   a   इतिहास  of destructive earthquakes  .
A 7.0  परिमाण   भूकंप   struck   हैती   on  12  जनवरी  2010 and  तबाह  Port-au-Prince .
The highest  विश्वसनीय  death  गिनती   थी  estimated at 220,000  .
Haitian government  estimates  were  उच्चतर  .
the  Presidential palace ,  पार्लियामेंट  and many  अन्य   महत्वपूर्ण  structures were  नष्ट  , along with countless  घरों  and  व्यवसायों  ,  leaving  hundreds of thousands  of  people  बेघर   .
The country  रै   yet   to  recover  इससे  the  2010  earthquake ( and subsequent  incidents  ) due to both the  गंभीरता  of the  क्षति   हैती   endured  in 2010 , as well  as   a  government  कि  was ineffective well before  the   भूकंप  .
संयुक्त  States aid organizations  have  donated $  2  billion  .
Combined with other international donations ,  ये  funds are intended to contribute to the rebuilding of the  देश  .
The Bloody Beetroots  is  the pseudonym of Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo , the Italian electro  हाउस   और   dance-punk  music producer  ,  DJ and photographer  .
The  खूनी   beetroots   is   well-known  for the black Venom  मुखौटा  he  wears  during performances .
In fact  ,   the   तभी  identifying  पब्लिक  feature  of  Rifo is  the   साल   ``  1977 '' tattooed across  उसके  chest  ,  which  is  both the year that the producer and punk-rock was born .
`` The Bloody  beetroots  DJ  नियत  '' contains Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo and Tommy  चाय  .
A Motorola Advisor alphanumeric  पेजर  used in Brazil  in   the  1990s ,  संचालित  by  teletrim
A  पेजर  is a wireless  दूरसंचार   यंत्र  that receives and displays numeric  or  text  संदेश  ,  or   receives  and announces voice  संदेश  .
One-way  pagers  can  तभी   प्राप्त  messages , while response pagers and  two-way   pagers  can also acknowledge  ,  reply to , and  originate  messages using an  आतंरिक   ट्रांसमीटर  .
Pagers  operate   as  part  of   a  paging system which includes  एक  or  अधिक  fixed transmitters  (  or in the case  of  response pagers and two-way pagers , one  or  more base  स्टेशन   )  ,  as  well as a number of pagers  carried  by mobile users .
These systems can  दायरा   इससे  a restaurant system with  a  single low-power transmitter  ,  to a nationwide system with thousands of high-power base  स्टेशन  .
One  of  the first practical paging  सेवाएं  was launched  in   1950  for physicians in the  नई  York City area  .
physicians  paid  us  $ 12 per  माह  for the  सेवा   और  carried  a  ( 6 oz  )   पेजर   कि   होता  receive phone messages within ( 25  mi  )  of  a single transmitter  मीनार   .
The system  थी   manufactured  by the Reevesound  कम्पनी  and operated  by   telanswerphone  .
In 1960 , John  फ्रांसिस  Mitchell  संयुक्त  elements of Motorola 's  walkie   talkie   और  automobile radio technologies to create  the  first transistorized pager ,  और  from this point , paging  प्रौद्योगिकी  continued to  अग्रिम  , and pager  अपनाना  continued to expand ,  जबतक  the  जल्दी  1990s .
however  ,  by  the mid-1990s  ,  as cellular technologies  became  cheaper and more  widely  available  ,   उन्नत  services began to displace paging as a commercial  उत्पाद  .
Today , pagers  मौजूद  largely as niche  उत्पाद   ,   ढूंढना   preferential  use in applications such as  अस्पताल  ,  पब्लिक  safety , and retail locations where their simplicity , high reliability  ,  and low cost represent significant advantages .
reevesville  is a town  in  Dorchester County  ,  South  कैरोलिना  , United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was  196   at   the  2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
As  पारिभाषित   by  the U.S. Office of Management and  बजट   ,  and used by  the  U.S. Census Bureau for  सांख्यिकीय  purposes only , Reevesville is  शामिल  within  the  Charleston-North Charleston-Summerville metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  .
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born  magdalena   कार्मेन   frieda  Kahlo  y   calderón  ; July  6  , 1907  –   जुलाई   13   ,  1954 )  थी   a   मैक्सिकन  painter  ,  born in Coyoacán , who  is  best known for her self-portraits  .
Kahlo 's life began and ended  in  Mexico City  ,  in her home  ज्ञात  as  the  Blue  हाउस   .
She gave her birth date as July  7   ,   1910  , but her  जनम  certificate  shows   जुलाई  6 ,  1907   .
Kahlo  था  allegedly wanted  the   साल   of  her birth to coincide with the  साल  of the beginning of the Mexican revolution so that her life would begin  साथ  the birth of modern  मैक्सिको  .
Her work  रै  been  मनाये  in  मैक्सिको  as emblematic  of  national  और  indigenous tradition ,  और  by feminists for its uncompromising depiction  of  the female  अनुभव  and form .
मैक्सिकन  culture and  amerindian  cultural tradition  हैं  important  in  her work ,  जिससे  has  महरूम   sometimes   characterized  as Naïve  आर्ट   or  folk art  .
Her  कार्य   रै  also been described  as  ``  surrealist  ''  ,   और   in  1938 André  ब्रेटन  , principal  initiator  of the  surrealist  movement , described Kahlo 's art  as  a `` ribbon around  a  bomb '' .
Kahlo had a volatile marriage with the famous Mexican  कलाकार  Diego Rivera .
वो  suffered lifelong health problems  .
Many of her  स्वास्थ्य  problems  यहूद  the result  of  a traffic accident  वो  survived  as  a teenager .
Recovering  इससे  her  चोटों  isolated  उसके  from  अन्य  people and this isolation influenced her works  ,   अनेक  of  जिससे  are  self-portraits  of one  sort   or  another .
Kahlo suggested , `` I paint myself because I am so often alone and  क्युकी  I  am   the  subject  i  know  बेहतरीन  . ''
She also stated  ,  `` I was  born   a  bitch .
I was  born   a  painter . ''
300px
Theresienwiese on the  दिन  before  oktoberfest  2006
oktoberfest   is   a  16-day  पर्व  celebrating  बियर  held annually in Munich , Bavaria , Germany  ,  running from  लेट  September to the  पहला  weekend in October  .
It is  एक  of the most famous events in Germany and is the world 's  largest  fair , with more  than   6  million  लोगों  from around the world  उपस्थित  the event every  साल  .
To  the  locals , it is not called  oktoberfest   ,  but `` die  wiesn  ''  ,  after  the  colloquial name  of  the fairgrounds  themselves  .
The  oktoberfest   is  an important part of  bar   संस्कृति  , having  महरूम   आयोजित   चूंकि  1810 .
Other  शहरों   आरपार  the  संसार  also  थाम  Oktoberfest celebrations , modeled after  the  original Munich  इवेंट  .
The Munich  oktoberfest  originally took place during  the  sixteen days  up  to  ,  and including ,  the  first  संडे   in  October .
In 1994 , the schedule  थी  modified in  जवाब  to  जर्मनी  reunification  so  that if  the  first Sunday  in  October falls on the 1st or  2nd  , then the  पर्व   होता  go  on  until October  3   (  German Unity Day ) .
Thus ,  the  festival is now  17  days  जब  the first  संडे  is  अक्तूबर  2 and  18  days when  it  is October 1 .
In  2010   ,  the festival lasted until  the  first Monday  in   अक्तूबर   ,  to mark the anniversary of  the  event  .
the  festival is held in an area named  the  Theresienwiese ( field ,  or  meadow , of Therese ) , often called Wiesn for short ,  स्तिथ  near Munich 's  बीच   .
Large  quantities   of  Oktoberfest Beer are consumed  ,  with almost 7  लाख  liters served  दौरान  the  16  day festival in 2007 .
विज़िटर  may also  आनंद  a  चौड़ी  variety of traditional food such as Hendl  (   मुर्गा  )  ,  Schweinebraten ( roast pork ) , Schweinshaxe ( grilled ham hock )  ,  Steckerlfisch (  ग्रील्ड  fish on a stick ) , Würstl ( sausages )  साथ  with Brezeln ( Pretzel )  ,  Knödel ( potato  or  bread  पकौड़ी  ) ,  käsespätzle   (   चीज   नूडल्स  ) , Reiberdatschi ( potato pancakes  )  , Sauerkraut or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red cabbage  )  along  साथ  such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter  स्प्रेड   )  and  weisswurst   (  a  श्वेत   सॉसेज  ) .
a  platter with  चीज   और  garnishes
Wheels of  gouda
Cheese  is  a generic term for a diverse  समूह   of  milk-based food  उत्पाद  .
Cheese is produced in  wide-ranging   जायका  , textures ,  और   फ़ॉर्म  .
Cheese consists of proteins and fat from  मिल्क   ,   प्रायः   the  milk of cows  ,  buffalo , goats  ,   or  sheep .
it   is   उत्पादित  by coagulation  of  the milk protein casein .
Typically ,  the  milk is  acidified  and addition of the  एंजाइम  rennet causes  जामन  .
the   solids   हैं  separated and  दबाया  into  फाइनल   रूप  .
Some cheeses  have  molds on the rind or throughout .
Most cheeses melt at cooking temperature .
Hundreds  of   प्रकार   of   चीज  from various countries are produced .
Their styles ,  बनावट  and flavors  निर्भर  on the  उत्पत्ति  of  the  milk ( including  the  animal  's  diet )  ,   whether  they  have  been pasteurized ,  the   butterfat   सामग्री  , the bacteria and mold , the  प्रसंस्करण  ,  और  aging  .
Herbs , spices , or wood  धुँआ  may be used as flavoring  एजेंटों  .
The  पीला  to red color of many cheeses ,  ऐसे  as Red  लीसेस्टर   ,  is normally formed  इससे  adding annatto  .
For a few cheeses , the milk is curdled  by  adding acids such as vinegar or  नीबू   रस  .
Most cheeses are acidified to  a  lesser degree by bacteria , which turn  मिल्क  sugars  into  lactic  एसिड  , then the addition  of  rennet completes  the  curdling .
Vegetarian alternatives  to   rennet   हैं   उपलब्धियाँ  ; most  हैं  produced by  fermentation  of  the  fungus  mucor  miehei  ,  but  अन्य  have been extracted from various species of  the   cynara  thistle family .
Cheese  is  valued for its portability  ,  long life  ,  and high content of fat  ,  protein ,  कैल्सियम   ,  and  फॉस्फोरस   .
Cheese is  अधिक  compact  और  has a  longer  shelf life  than   मिल्क   ,  although how long  a   चीज  will keep  may  depend on the type of cheese ; labels  on  packets of  चीज  often  अर्जी   कि   a  cheese  चाहिए  be consumed  भीतर  three to five days  of  opening  .
generally  speaking , hard cheeses last longer than soft cheeses ,  ऐसे  as Brie or  बकरी  's milk cheese .
Cheesemakers near a dairy  प्रदेश  may  लाभ   इससे  fresher , lower-priced milk , and lower shipping  लागत  .
the  long  भंडार   जीवन  of  कुछ  cheese , especially if  it   is  encased in a protective rind , allows selling  जब  markets are favorable .
Additional ingredients may  be  added to some  cheeses  , such as black peppers , garlic , chives or cranberries .
A  विशेषज्ञ  seller of  चीज   is  sometimes known  as  a  cheesemonger  .
To become  an   विशेषज्ञ  in this  फ़ील्ड   ,   जैसे  wine or cooking , requires some  औपचारिक   शिक्षा  and  सालो  of tasting and hands-on experience .
इस  position is  typically  responsible for  सब  aspects  of   the   चीज  inventory  ;  selecting the  चीज  menu , purchasing , receiving , storage  ,  and ripening  .
Legal  citation   सिग्नल  are  a   नियत   of  brief  abbreviated  phrases or  शब्द  used to clarify  the  authority or  significance  of  a   विधिक  citation as it relates to  a  proposition .
Signals help a  रीडर   जल्दी   discern   अर्थ  or usefulness of a  particular  reference when the reference itself does not provide adequate  सूचना  .
सबसे  citation  सिग्नल   हैं  placed in front of the citation  to   जिससे   वे   लागू   .
For  उदाहरण  , in  the   अनुच्छेद  When  लिखने   a   विधिक  argument , it is  महत्वपूर्ण  to  refer  to primary  स्त्रोत  .
To assist readers  in   locating   ये   स्त्रोत  , it is desirable to use a  मानकीकृत  citation format .
See  generally  Harvard Law  पुनर्विलोकन  Association  ,  The Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation  (   18th  ed  .  2005 ) .
Note  ,  however , that some courts may require  कोई   विधिक   papers   कि  are  सुपुर्द  to  उन्हें  to conform to  a   अलग  citation format .
the signal is the phrase  ``  see  generally  , ''  जिससे  indicates that  the  citation `` The Bluebook :  a  Uniform System  of  Citation ( 18th ed . 2005 ) ''  provides  general  पृष्ठभूमि  information on the  टॉपिक   .
Neil Alden  आर्मस्ट्रांग  (  अगस्त  5  ,   1930   –   अगस्त  25  ,   2012   )   थी  an American  astronaut   और  the first person to walk on the  चंद्रमा  .
He  थी  also an aerospace engineer  ,  naval aviator ,  परीक्षण  pilot ,  और  university professor .
Before becoming an  astronaut   ,   आर्मस्ट्रांग  was  an  officer in the  u.S.   नेवी  and  परोसा  in the Korean War  .
After the war ,  he   अर्जित  his  स्नातक  's  उपाधि   at  Purdue University and  परोसा  as a  परीक्षण  pilot at the National  सलाहकार   कमेटी   लिये  Aeronautics  high-speed  Flight  स्टेशन  ,  अभी   ज्ञात  as the Dryden Flight  शोध   बीच  , where he logged over 900 flights .
He later  समाप्त  graduate studies  at  the University of Southern California  .
A  भागीदार  in the U.S.  एयर  Force  's  Man  in  Space Soonest and X-20  dyna-soar  human spaceflight programs  ,  Armstrong joined the NASA  astronaut  Corps  in   1962  .
He made his first space flight  ,  as  कमांड   पायलट  of Gemini 8 , in 1966  ,  becoming NASA 's  पहला   civilian   astronaut  to fly  in   स्पेस  .
on  this mission ,  he  performed the first docking of two spacecraft , with pilot David Scott .
Armstrong 's second and  पिछला  spaceflight  थी  as mission commander of the Apollo  11  moon  लैंडिंग  ,  in  July 1969  .
On this mission , Armstrong and  बज़   एल्ड्रिन  descended to the lunar  सतह  and spent two  और  a  हाफ  hours exploring , while  माइकल  Collins remained in lunar  कक्षा  in the Command  मोड्यूल  .
Along with Collins and  एल्ड्रिन  ,  आर्मस्ट्रांग  was awarded  the  Presidential Medal of  स्वतंत्रता  by President Richard  निक्सन  ;  in  1978 ,  अध्यक्ष  Jimmy  कार्टर  presented Armstrong  the  Congressional  स्पेस  Medal of Honor in 1978 ;  he  and his  पूर्व   crewmates  received the Congressional Gold Medal in 2009 .
Armstrong  died  in  सिनसिनाटी   ,  Ohio , on  अगस्त  25 , 2012 , at the  आयु   of  82 , after complications  इससे  coronary  धमनी  bypass surgery  .
Secretariat  (   कूच  30 , 1970  –  October 4 , 1989  )  was an American Thoroughbred  racehorse  that in 1973 became the first U.S . Triple Crown champion in 25 years .
He set  रेस  records  in   सब   तीन  events in the  श्रेणी  —  the   केंटकी  Derby  (  1:59.4 ) , the  preakness  Stakes ( 1:53 ) ,  और  the Belmont Stakes (  2:24  ) —  रिकॉर्ड   कि  still stand today .
he  is  माना  to  be   एक  of  the   महानतम  Thoroughbreds of all  समय  .
in  1999  ,  ESPN  क्रमित  Secretariat the 35th best athlete  of  the  20th  century  ,   the  highest ranking racehorse on  the   सूची   url_http  .
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The  blood-horse   's   सूची  of  the  Top  100  U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century .
Secretariat  थी   sired  by Bold Ruler out of  somethingroyal   ,   by  Princequillo  .
He was foaled  at   the  Meadow in  कैरोलीन   काउंटी  , Virginia .
Like his famous  पूर्ववर्ती  Man o ' War ,  सचिवालय  was  a   विशाल  chestnut colt  और  was given the  वही  nickname  ,   ``  Big  रेड  . ''
Secretariat 's grandsire  ,  Nasrullah ,  is  also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew .
Owned by  पैनी  Chenery , he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian  jockey   रॉन  Turcotte , along with  प्रशिक्षु  jockey Paul Feliciano  (   पहला   दो  races  )   ,  and  दिग्गज  Eddie  मेपल  ( last race ) .
He  raced  in Chenery 's  मर्ग  Stable 's blue and  श्वेत  checkered colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat .
Secretariat  stood  approximately tall ,  और   weighed  , with a 75-inch girth  ,  in his racing  प्रधान  .
Madrid ( , )  is  the capital and largest city of Spain .
the   जनसांख्यिकी   of  the city is  roughly  3.3 million  और   the  entire  जनसांख्यिकी  of the Madrid metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  is  गणना  to be around 6.5 million  .
It is the third-largest  नगर  in the  यूरोपीय   संघ  , after London and  बर्लिन   ,  and  इसके   महानगर  area is  the   third-largest  in  the  European Union  बाद  London  और   पेरिस  .
The  नगर   spans   a   कुल  of .
the  city is located  on  the  manzanares   नदी  in the  केन्द्र  of both the country and the  जातियाँ  of Madrid ( which comprises the  नगर  of Madrid , its  conurbation  and  विस्तारित  suburbs and villages ) ;  इस   जातियाँ  is bordered  by   the  autonomous communities of  castile  and León and Castile-La Mancha .
as   the  capital city of Spain , seat of government , and  निवास  of  the   स्पेनी  monarch ,  मैड्रिड  is also the  राजनैतिक  ,  आर्थिक   और   सांस्कृतिक  centre of Spain .
The  वर्तमान   महापौर  is Ana Botella from the People 's Party  (   pp  ) .
The Madrid urban agglomeration  रै   the   third-largest  GDP in the European Union  और  its  प्रभाव  in politics  ,  education  ,   entertainment   ,  environment  ,  media , fashion , science ,  संस्कृति  , and the arts all contribute to  इसके   औकात  as  एक  of the  संसार   's   प्रमुख   वैश्विक  cities .
Due  to   इसके  economic  आउटपुट   ,  high standard of living ,  और  market size , Madrid is  माना  the major financial  केन्द्र  of Southern  यूरोपीय  and the Iberian  प्रायद्वीप  ; it hosts  the   सिर  offices  of  the  विशाल  majority  of  the major Spanish companies ,  ऐसे  as Telefónica ,  iberia   or  Repsol  .
मैड्रिड   is  the  सबसे  touristic city  of   स्पेन  , the fourth-most touristic of the  महाद्वीप  , and  the   सातवाँ  most visited  नगर   in   the  world according to  फोर्ब्स   .
Is the 10th  सबसे  livable city  in   the   संसार  according to Monocle  पत्रिका  , in its 2010 index .
Madrid also  बाँधने  among the  12  greenest European  शहरों  in 2010. <  संदर्भ   name=  '' http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html  ''   >  Madrid is currently a  प्रत्याशी  City for the 2020 Summer  ओलंपिक  .
मैड्रिड   घरों   the   मुख्यालय  of the World Tourism Organization ( WTO ) , belonging to the United Nations Organization  (   un  ) ,  the   segib  , the Organization of  ibero-american  States ( OEI )  ,   और  the  पब्लिक  Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ) .
It also hosts  प्रमुख  international institutions regulators of Spanish  :  the  खड़ा  Committee  of  the Association  of  Spanish Language  अकादमियों  ,  मुख्यालय  of the Royal Spanish Academy  (  RAE ) , the Cervantes Institute and  the  Foundation  of  Urgent Spanish (  fundéu  ) .
Madrid organizes fairs as FITUR  ,  ARCO , SIMO  tci   और  the  cibeles  Madrid Fashion Week .
While Madrid possesses a modern infrastructure  ,  it has preserved the look and feel of many of  इसके  historic  neighbourhoods  and streets  .
इसके   लैंडमार्क  include the Royal Palace of Madrid ; the Teatro Real ( Royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen Retiro Park , founded in 1631 ;  the  19th-century National Library building ( founded in 1712 )  containing  some of Spain 's  ऐतिहासिक   अभिलेख  ;  a  large  क्रमांक  of National museums ,  और  the  सुनहरी  Triangle of Art ,  स्तिथ  along  the  Paseo  डेल  Prado and  comprising  three art  संग्रहालय  : Prado Museum ,  the  Museo Nacional Centro  de  Arte Reina Sofía  ,  a museum of modern  आर्ट   ,  and  the  Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum , which completes the  त्रुटियां  of the other  दो   संग्रहालय   .
Cibeles Palace and Fountain have become the  स्मारक   प्रतीक  of  the   नगर   .
The path of the  via   appia   और  of  the  Via Appia Traiana .
remains  of the Appian Way  in   रोम   ,  near  quarto  Miglio
Near Rome .
The Appian Way ( Latin and  इतालवी  :  via  Appia  )  was one of the earliest and strategically most important  रोमन  roads of the ancient republic .
It connected  रोम   to   brindisi  ,  apulia   ,   in  southeast Italy  .
इसके  importance is  indicated  by its common name , recorded by  statius   :
Appia  teritur  regina longarum viarum
`` the Appian  रास्ता  is the queen of  the  long roads ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus , the  रोमन  censor who began and  समाप्त  the first  खण्ड  as a military  सड़क  to  the   दक्षिण  in 312 BC during  the  Samnite  युद्धों  .
the  Draupner wave , a single giant  वेव   measured  on New Year 's Day 1995 , finally confirmed the existence of freak waves , which  था  previously been considered near-mythical
Rogue  लहरें   (   भी  known as freak waves  ,  monster waves , killer  लहरें   ,   चरम  waves  ,   और   असामान्य   लहरें  ) are relatively large and  spontaneous  ocean surface  लहरें  that  occur  far out at sea  ,  and are a threat  भी  to  विशाल   जहाजों  and  समंदर   liners  .
in  oceanography  ,  they  हैं  more precisely defined as  लहरें  whose  ऊँचाई  is more than twice the  significant  wave height (  swh  ) , which is itself defined  as  the  औसत   of  the largest third  of  waves in a  वेव  record .
Therefore  दुष्ट   लहरें   हैं   नहीं  necessarily the biggest waves  मिला  at sea  ;  they  हैं  , rather  ,  surprisingly  विशाल  waves  लिये  a  दिए   समुद्र  state  .
Rogue  लहरें  seem not  to  have a  सिंगल  distinct  कारण  ,  लकिन   occur  where physical factors such as high  हवाएँ   और  strong currents cause waves  to   विलय  to create a single exceptionally  विशाल  wave  .
electress  Sophia of  हनोवर  ( 1630–1714  )
the   लकीर  of  उत्तराधिकार  to  the   अंग्रेजों   सिंहासन  is the ordered  अनुक्रम   of   सब  those people eligible to succeed to  the  throne of the United  किंगडम  and the other  15  Commonwealth realms .
The  अधिनियम  of  उपनिवेश  1701 bestowed succession on the Electress  sophia  of Hanover  और   उसके  descendants while excluding Roman Catholics .
The  अंग्रेजों  government  करता   नहीं  publish an official list of all  those  in line  to  succeed  ,   लकिन  the  कार्य  of genealogical  लेखक  and amateur  शोधकर्ताओं  suggests that there are several thousand  लोगों  potentially in line .
at  a  समिट  in Perth , Western  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  in 2011 , the heads of government  of   सब   16   राष्ट्रमंडल  realms agreed to take steps  to  adopt absolute  primogeniture   ,   समाप्त  the exclusion  of  people married  to   रोमन  Catholics ,  और  make  अन्य  changes in the  उत्तराधिकार   नियम   .
The line  of  succession is also  प्रयुक्त  to  चुनें  the Counsellors  of  State  (  and  a  regent  if  the need  arises  )  अंतर्गत   the  provisions  of   the  Regency Act 1937 .
For earlier versions of  the  line of succession ,  देखिए  History of  the   अंग्रेजों  line  of   उत्तराधिकार   .
Edward Montgomery  क्लिफ्ट  (  अक्तूबर   17  ,  1920july  23  ,  1966  )  was  an  American  फिल्मी  and stage  कर्ता   the  New York  times’  obituary noted  उसके  portrayal of ``  मूडी  ,  संवेदनशील  young men '' .
He often  निभाई  outsiders and ``  victim-heroes  ''  ;   उदाहरण  include the social climber in George Stevens 's A Place in the Sun , the  anguished  Catholic  पुजारी   in  Hitchcock  's  I  कबूल   ,  the  doomed  regular soldier  रॉबर्ट  E. Lee  prewitt   in  Fred Zinnemann 's From Here  to   शाश्वत  ,  और  the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites in  एडवर्ड  Dmytryk 's The Young  शेर   .
Later  ,  after a disfiguring car  क्रैश  in 1956  ,   और  alcohol and prescription drug abuse , he became erratic .
Nevertheless important roles  यहूद  still his ,  सहित  ``  the  reckless , alcoholic  ,  mother-fixated rodeo  यजमान  '' in John Huston  's   the  Misfits ,  the  title role  in  Huston 's  ,  and  the  concentration camp victim in  स्टेनली  Kramer  's  Judgment at Nuremberg . ''
क्लिफ्ट   प्राप्त  four Academy Award  nominations  during  उसके   करियर  ,  तीन   लिये  Best  कर्ता  and  एक  for Best Supporting Actor .
The War on Terror ( also known as the Global War  on   आतंक  ) is a  पद  commonly  लागू  to an international military campaign  जिससे  started  as   a   परिणाम  of the 11 September 2001 terrorist  हमले  on the  संयुक्त  States  .
इस  resulted in  an  international  सैन्य   अभियान   to  eliminate  al-qaeda  and other militant organizations .
The United Kingdom  और  many  अन्य  NATO and non-NATO nations  participate  in the conflict .
the  phrase 'War  on  Terror  '  was first used by US President George W. Bush on  20  September 2001  .
The Bush administration  और  the  पश्चिमी  media have  चूंकि  used the  पद   to  signify a global military ,  राजनैतिक   ,  lawful  ,  and conceptual struggle—targeting both organizations designated  as  terrorist and  regimes  accused of  supporting  them .
It was  typically  used with a particular  फ़ोकस   on  militant Islamists ,  al-qaeda  , and other  जिहादी  groups .
Although the term is  नहीं   officially  used by the administration  of  US President  बराक  Obama  (  which instead  उपयोग  the  पद  Overseas Contingency Operation )  ,  it is still commonly  प्रयुक्त  by  राजनेता   ,  in the media and by some aspects  of  government  officially  ,  ऐसे  as the  संयुक्त  States '  वैश्विक  War on  आतंक  Service Medal  .
German battleship Schleswig-Holstein  ,  Westerplatte , September 1  ,  1939
विनाशक   uss  Shaw exploding after her forward magazine  थी   detonated  during the  आक्रमण  on  पर्ल  Harbor
The  प्रमुख  causes of  संसार  War II  यहूद  nationalistic issues  ,   अनसुलझे  issues  ,  and  resentments  resulting from World  युद्ध  I  और   the  interwar period in Europe  ,  in  जोड   to  the effects  of  the Great  अवसाद  in the 1930s .
The  culmination  of events that led to the  outbreak   of  war are generally understood  to   be   the  1939  आक्रमण  of Poland by Germany and  सोवियत  Russia and the 1937 invasion  of  the Republic of China by the Empire  of  Japan .
ये  military aggressions were the  परिणाम   of  decisions made  by   the   सत्तावादी   सत्ताधारी   नाजी   elite  in  जर्मनी  and  by  the leadership  of  the Kwantung Army in Japan .
संसार  War II  प्रारंभ   बाद   ये  aggressive actions were met with  an  official declaration of war and/or armed  प्रतिरोध  .
The following is a list  of  gods and other divine and  semi-divine   आंकड़े  from  यूनानी   mythology  .
The list does  नहीं  include creatures ; for these  ,  see List of Greek mythological creatures .
The Mitsubishi Galant is  an  automobile manufactured  by   मित्सुबिशी  Motors between  1969  and 2012 .
The  नाम  was derived from the French word galant  ,  meaning `` chivalrous ''  .
There have been nine distinct generations  ,  and  संचयी  sales now exceed five million .
It began  as   a  compact  सेडान   ,  but over  the   कोर्स  of its life has  विकसित  into  a  larger mid-size car .
Initial production was only based in Japan , but  चूंकि  1994 the  अमरीकी  market has been served by vehicles assembled  at  the  पूर्व  Diamond-Star Motors ( DSM ) facility in  सामान्य  , Illinois .
Blood  दबाव  (  bp  ) , sometimes  referred   to   as  arterial blood pressure ,  is  the pressure exerted by circulating  रक्त  upon the  दीवारें  of blood  बरतन   ,  and  is  one of the principal  vital   लक्षण  .
When used without  further  specification  ,   ``  blood pressure  ''   प्रायः  refers  to   the  arterial pressure of the systemic circulation  .
During each heartbeat ,  रक्त   दबाव  varies between  a  maximum (  systolic  ) and a minimum  (  diastolic ) pressure  .
The  रक्त  pressure  in   the   परिसंचरण  is principally due to  the   pumping  action of  the  heart .
Differences in  औसत  blood pressure  हैं   जिम्मेदार   लिये   रक्त  flow from one  स्थान  to another in the  परिसंचरण  .
The rate of  औसत   रक्त   प्रवाह  depends on the resistance to  प्रवाह   प्रस्तुत  by  the  blood vessels  .
औसत   रक्त  pressure decreases  as  the circulating  रक्त   चालें  away from  the   दिल  through arteries and capillaries  due  to viscous losses of energy .
औसत   रक्त  pressure drops over the whole  परिसंचरण  , although most  of   the  fall occurs along the small arteries and arterioles  .
Gravity  affects  blood  दबाव  via  hydrostatic  forces  (  e.g. ,  दौरान   खड़ा   )  and valves in veins , breathing , and  pumping  from  संकुचन  of skeletal  मांसपेशियां  also influence blood  दबाव  in veins  .
Blood pressure without further specification usually refers to the systemic arterial pressure  measured  at  a   व्यक्ति   's   अपर  arm  और  is a  माप  of the pressure in the brachial  धमनी   ,  the  प्रमुख  artery  in   the  upper arm .
a  person’s blood pressure is usually expressed  in  terms  of  the systolic pressure over diastolic pressure and  is  measured in millimetres of mercury  (   mmhg   )  , for  उदाहरण  120/80 .
A veto  –   लैटिन  for `` I  forbid   ''   –   is  the  शक्ति  ( used  by  an officer  of  the state ,  लिये  example  )  to  unilaterally  stop an  आधिकारिक  action  ,  especially  the  enactment  of  legislation  .
a   वीटो  can  be  absolute , as for instance  in  the  संयुक्त  Nations Security Council  ,  whose permanent  सदस्यों   (  China ,  फ़्रांस  , Russia , United Kingdom  ,  United States of America  )  can  ब्लाक   कोई  resolution  .
or  it can be  सीमित  ,  as   in  the  विधान  process  of  the United States , where a two-thirds  vote  in  दोनो  the House and Senate may override a Presidential  वीटो  of legislation .
A veto  तभी  gives power  to   रोकें  changes , not  to  adopt them  (   मगर  for  the  rare ``  amendatory  veto '' ) .
Thus  a   वीटो  allows its holder  to   protect  the  औकात   quo  .
the  concept of  a  veto body  originated  with the  रोमन  consuls and tribunes  .
Either of the two consuls  पकड़कर  office in a given year  could  block a military  or  civil  निर्णय  by the  अन्य  ; any tribune had the power  to  unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate .
गंधक  dioxide  (   भी  sulphur dioxide  )  is the chemical compound with the  सूत्र  .
it   is   a   विषाक्त  gas with  a   pungent  , irritating  महकते  , that is released  by  volcanoes and in various industrial processes  .
Since coal and petroleum often contain sulfur  यौगिकों  , their combustion generates sulfur dioxide unless  the   गंधक  compounds  हैं  removed before burning the  ईंधन   .
Further oxidation of SO2 , usually in the  उपस्थिति  of a catalyst  ऐसे   as  NO2 , forms  h2so4   ,  and thus  एसिड  rain .
Sulfur dioxide  emissions   हैं  also a precursor to particulates in  the  atmosphere .
Both of these impacts are cause for  चिंता  over  the  environmental impact of  ये  fuels  .
Myasthenia gravis ( from Greek μύς `` muscle '' ,  ``  weakness  ''  , and  ``  serious ''  ;  abbreviated MG ) is  an   असंक्राम्य  neuromuscular disease leading to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability .
It is  an  autoimmune disorder , in  जिससे   कमज़ोरी   is  caused by  circulating  antibodies that  ब्लाक  acetylcholine receptors  at   the  postsynaptic  neuromuscular   जंक्शन  , inhibiting the excitatory effects  of  the neurotransmitter acetylcholine  on   nicotinic  receptors  throughout  neuromuscular junctions .
Myasthenia is  treated  medically with  acetylcholinesterase   inhibitors  or immunosuppressants ,  और   ,  in selected cases ,  thymectomy  .
The  बीमारी  incidence is 3–30 cases  प्रति  million per  साल  and rising as a result  of   increased   जागरूकता   .
MG must be  विशिष्ट  from congenital  myasthenic  syndromes  कि  can present similar symptoms but  प्रस्ताव   no  response to  immunosuppressive  treatments .
Reflective twisted nematic liquid crystal  प्रदर्शक   .
polarizing  filter film with a vertical axis to polarize light  as  it enters  .
Glass substrate with ITO electrodes .
The  आकार  of these  electrodes  will determine  the  shapes that  होगा  appear when the LCD is turned  on   .
Vertical ridges etched on  the   सतह   हैं  smooth .
Twisted  nematic   द्रव  crystal  .
Glass substrate  साथ   आम  electrode film ( ITO )  साथ  horizontal  ridges  to  लकीर  up with  the   आड़ा  filter .
Polarizing filter  फिल्मी  with a  आड़ा  axis to  block/pass  light .
Reflective  सतह  to send  लाइट   वापस  to viewer .
(   in  a  backlit  LCD  ,  this  परत  is  replaced  with a  लाइट   सोर्स  . )
a   liquid-crystal  display  (  LCD ) is a flat panel display , electronic visual  प्रदर्शक   ,  or  वीडियो  display that  उपयोग  the light modulating properties of liquid  crystals  .
द्रव   crystals  do not  emit   लाइट  directly  .
LCDs are  उपलब्धियाँ  to  प्रदर्शक   मनमानी  images ( as  in  a general-purpose  कंप्यूटर  display ) or fixed images which  can  be  प्रदर्शित   or  hidden , such as  preset   शब्द  , digits ,  और  7-segment  प्रदर्शक   as  in a  डिजिटल  clock .
They use the same basic technology , except  कि  arbitrary images are  बना   up   of  a large number of  छोटी  pixels , while other  प्रदर्शक  have larger elements .
LCDs are used in  a  wide range of applications  सहित  computer monitors , televisions  ,  instrument panels , aircraft cockpit displays , and signage .
वे  are common in consumer devices such as video players , gaming devices , clocks , watches , calculators  ,  and telephones , and have  replaced  cathode  रे  tube  (  CRT ) displays in most  अनुप्रयोग  .
वे  are available  in  a wider  दायरा  of screen  आकार  than CRT and  प्लाज्मा  displays , and since they  do  not use phosphors ,  वे  do  नहीं  suffer image burn-in .
LCDs  हैं   ,   however  ,  susceptible  to image persistence .
the  LCD screen is more energy efficient and can be disposed of more safely than a CRT .
Its low  विद्युत   शक्ति  consumption enables it to be used in  बैटरी  -powered electronic equipment  .
it  is  an   electronically  modulated optical device  बना  up  of  any  क्रमांक  of segments filled  साथ  liquid crystals and arrayed in  सामने  of a light source (  backlight   )  or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome .
Liquid crystals were first discovered in 1888 .
By 2008 , worldwide  बिक्री   of  televisions  साथ  LCD screens  exceeded  annual sales  of  CRT units ; the CRT  became  obsolete for most purposes  .
The  borgata   होटल  Casino and Spa is a luxury hotel , casino , and spa in Atlantic City ,  नई   जर्सी  , United  राज्य   .
it   is  owned  by  Marina District Development  ,   a  joint  venture  between  boyd  Gaming  और  a divesture trust  स्थापित  by MGM Resorts International .
The $ 1.1 billion casino hotel  सुविधाएँ  2,002 rooms and  is  the largest hotel in  नई   जर्सी  .
The  borgata   खोली   in  July  2003   as  a  लास   vegas-style   megaresort  and is  the   top-grossing   कसीनो  in Atlantic  नगर   .
A bottle of  ऊँची   potency   b-complex   विटामिन  supplement pills .
A vitamin (  or  ) is an organic compound  जरूरी   by   an   सजीव   as  a vital  nutrient  in limited amounts .
An organic chemical compound  (  or  सम्बन्धित  set  of  compounds  )  is called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized  in  sufficient  quantities  by  an   सजीव  , and must be obtained from the  आहार  .
Thus  ,  the  पद  is  सशर्त   दोनो  on  the  circumstances and on  the  particular organism .
लिये  example , ascorbic acid ( vitamin  c  ) is a vitamin for humans ,  लकिन  not  लिये  most other animals , and biotin and  विटामिन  D are required in the human diet  तभी  in certain circumstances .
By  सम्मेलन  , the term vitamin  शामिल  neither other essential  nutrients  , such as  dietary   खनिज  , essential fatty acids , or essential  अमीनो  acids (  जिससे   हैं   needed  in  larger  amounts  than  vitamins ) nor the large  क्रमांक  of other  nutrients  that promote health  लकिन  are  वरना  required less often .
Thirteen vitamins are universally recognized  at  present .
Vitamins are classified by their  biological   और   रासायनिक  activity , not  उनके   ढांचा  .
Thus , each  ``  vitamin '' refers to a  क्रमांक  of  vitamer  compounds that  सब  show the  biological  activity associated with  a  particular vitamin .
Such  a  set of  रसायन  is  grouped   अंतर्गत  an alphabetized  विटामिन   ``  generic descriptor ''  शीर्षक  ,  ऐसे  as ``  विटामिन  A ``  ,  which includes the compounds  retinal   ,   रेटिनॉल  , and four known carotenoids  .
Vitamers by definition  हैं   convertible   to  the active form of the vitamin in  the  body , and are sometimes  inter-convertible  to one another  ,   as   खूब  .
Vitamins have diverse biochemical  कृत्यों   .
Some have hormone-like functions as regulators of mineral metabolism (  ऐसे  as vitamin  d  ) , or  regulators   of  cell  और  tissue growth and differentiation  (   ऐसे   as  some forms of  विटामिन  A  )   .
अन्य   फलन   as   antioxidants  ( e.g. , vitamin  e   और  sometimes vitamin C ) .
The  largest  number of vitamins ( such as B  जटिल  vitamins  )  function  as   precursors   लिये  enzyme  cofactors  , that  सहायता  enzymes  in   उनके  work as  catalysts   in  metabolism  .
In this role ,  विटामिन  may be  tightly  bound to  एंजाइमों  as part  of   prosthetic  groups :  लिये  example  ,  biotin  is  part of  एंजाइमों  involved in making fatty acids  .
Vitamins  may   भी  be less tightly bound to enzyme catalysts  as  coenzymes , detachable molecules that function  to   carry  chemical groups or electrons  between  molecules .
For example , folic acid may  carry   मिथाइल  , formyl ,  और  methylene groups  in  the cell .
Although these roles  in  assisting enzyme-substrate reactions are  विटामिन  '  best-known  function , the other  विटामिन  functions are equally important .
Until the mid-1930s  ,  when the first commercial  yeast-extract   विटामिन   b   जटिल  and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement  टैबलेट   यहूद  sold  ,   विटामिन   यहूद  obtained solely through food  सेवन  , and changes in diet ( which  ,  for example , could occur during  a   particular  growing season ) usually greatly  altered   the  types and  amounts  of vitamins ingested  .
However , vitamins have been produced  as  commodity chemicals  और  made widely available as inexpensive  semisynthetic  and synthetic-source  multivitamin  dietary and food supplements and  एडिटिव  ,  चूंकि  the middle  of  the 20th century  .
World Muslim population  by  percentage (  pew  Research Center , 2009  )
World Muslim  जनसांख्यिकी  in millions
Islam is the world  's   दूसरी  largest religion after Christianity .
According to a  2010  study  ,  Islam  रै  1.62 billion  adherents  , making  up  over 23  %   of  the world population .
Islam  is   the   predominant  religion in the Middle East ,  in   सहेल  , in  the  Horn of Africa  और  northern  अफ़्रीकी  , and in some parts of Asia  .
Large  समुदायों  of Muslims are  भी  found  in   चीन  , the Balkans ,  और   रूस  .
Other  भाग  of  the  world host large Muslim immigrant communities  ;  in Western Europe , for instance , Islam is the second largest religion after  christianity  ,  जहाँ  it  represents  6 % of the total  जनसांख्यिकी  .
According to  the   pew  Research Center in 2010 there  यहूद  49 Muslim-majority countries  .
Around 62 % of  the  world 's  मुसलमान   सजीव  in South and Southeast Asia , with over  1  billion adherents .
The  largest   मुस्लिम   देश   is  Indonesia  ,  home  to  12.7 % of  the  world 's  मुसलमान   ,  followed  by  Pakistan ( 11.0  %  ) , India (  10.9   %  ) , and Bangladesh  (   9.2  % )  .
परिचय  20  %   of  Muslims  सजीव  in  अरब  countries .
In the  मध्य   ईस्ट   ,   the  non-Arab  देशों  of Turkey and Iran are  the  largest Muslim-majority countries ; in  अफ़्रीकी  , Egypt and Nigeria have  the  most  populous  Muslim communities  .
a   पढ़ाई   conducted  by the Pew Research Center  in  2010  और  released  जनवरी  2011  मिला  that there are  1.62  billion Muslims around the world .
The study  मिला  more Muslims in the United  किंगडम  than in  लेबनान   और  more in  चीन  than in Syria  .
Rhode  द्वीप   (  or  )  , officially  the  State  of   rhode  Island and Providence Plantations , is a  राज्य   in   the  New  इंग्लैण्ड  region of the United States .
rhode  Island  is   the   smallest   in  area ,  the  eighth least populous  ,  but the second  सबसे  densely  आबादी  of  the   50   us   राज्य   पीछे   नई   जर्सी  .
rhode   द्वीप  is bordered by Connecticut to the west and  मैसाचुसेट्स   to  the north and  ईस्ट  ,  और  it shares a  जल   boundary  with  नई  York 's Long Island to the southwest  .
Rhode  द्वीप  was the first of the 13  असली  colonies  to  declare independence from  अंग्रेजों  rule ,  declaring   itself  independent  on  May 4  ,  1776 , two  महीने  before any other colony .
The State was also the last of the  तेरह   असली  colonies to ratify  the   संयुक्त  States  संविधान  .
Rhode Island  's   आधिकारिक  nickname is ``  the  Ocean State  ''  , a  सन्दर्भ  to  the  State 's  भूगोल  , since Rhode Island has several large bays and inlets that amount to about 14  %  of  इसके  total area .
Its land  क्षेत्रफल  is  ,  but  इसके  total area is  significantly   larger  .
Dubai ( ; ' , ) is a city in the  संयुक्त  Arab Emirates , located  भीतर  the emirate of the same name .
the   अमीर  of Dubai is  स्तिथ  on  the   southeast  coast  of  the  पारसी   गल्फ   on   the  Arabian Peninsula and is  एक  of  the  seven  अमीरात  that make up the  देश  .
It  रै   the  largest population in the  uae  ( 2,106,177  )  and the second-largest land  territory   by  area ( 4,114 km2  )  after Abu Dhabi  .
Dubai  और  Abu Dhabi  ,  the national capital , are  the  only two emirates to have veto  शक्ति  over critical  matters  of national importance in the country  's  legislature .
The city of Dubai is  स्तिथ  on the emirate  's  northern coastline  और   heads  up the Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman  महानगर  area .
Dubai  is  nowadays often misperceived as  a  country or city-state  और  ,  in   कुछ  cases ,  the  UAE  as   a  whole has  महरूम  described as 'Dubai  '  .
The earliest mention of  दुबई  is in 1095 AD  ,   और  the earliest  अंकित  settlement  in  the region dates from 1799 .
The Sheikhdom of Dubai  थी  formally established in  1833   by  Sheikh  maktoum  bin Butti Al-Maktoum when  he   persuaded  around  800  members of  उसके  tribe of the Bani  yas  , living  in   कया  was then  the  Second Saudi State  और  now  भाग  of Saudi Arabia ,  to  follow him to the Dubai  क्रीक  by  the  Abu Falasa clan  of  the Bani Yas .
It remained  अंतर्गत  the tribe 's control when  the  United Kingdom  assumed   सुरक्षा  of  the   sheikhdom   in   1892  and joined the nascent United Arab Emirates upon independence  in  1971  as   the  country  's  second  अमीर  .
Its strategic geographic location made the town an important trading hub and  by  the beginning of the 20th century ,  दुबई  was already  an  important regional  बंदरगाहों  .
Today , Dubai has emerged as a cosmopolitan metropolis  कि  has grown steadily  to   become  a global city  और  a business and cultural  हब  of  the  Middle East  और  the  पारसी   गल्फ  region  .
Although  दुबई  's economy  थी  historically  निर्मित   on  the  आयल   उद्योग   ,  the emirate 's Western-style model  of  business  ड्राइव  its  अर्थव्यवस्था  with the main revenues now  coming   इससे  tourism  ,  real estate  ,   और   वित्तीय   सेवाएं  .
दुबई  has  recently  attracted world  ध्यान  through many  अभिनव  large construction projects and  खेल  events .
The city has become symbolic  लिये  its  skyscrapers   और  high-rise buildings , such as  the  world  's  tallest Burj  खलीफा  ,  in   जोड  to ambitious development projects including man-made  आइलैंड्स  , hotels ,  और  some  of   the  largest shopping malls in the region and the world .
इस  increased attention has also highlighted  मजदूर   और  human rights  मुद्दे  concerning  the   नगर  's  largely  South Asian paid workforce .
दुबई  's property  मार्केट  experienced a  प्रमुख  deterioration in 2008–2009  as   a  result of the worldwide economic  downturn   following  the  वित्तीय  crisis of 2007-2008 .
however  ,  दुबई  has  बना  a  स्थिर  and  क्रमिक  recovery with help  coming   इससे   neighboring  emirates  .
The  handful  of  नई  projects  कि  are  in  the pipeline have  महरूम  able to help  दुबई   रियल   एस्टेट  make a  वापसी  .
As  of  2012  ,  Dubai is the 22nd most expensive city in  the   संसार  , and  the  most  महंगी  city  in  the  मध्य   ईस्ट  ,  surpassing  Israel  's  Tel Aviv  (  31st ) .
Dubai has also been  रेटेड  as one of  the  best places to live  in   the  Middle East , including by  us  American  वैश्विक   परामर्श   कड़  Mercer who rated the city as the best place to  सजीव  in  the  Middle East  in   2011  .
the  following is a  सूची   of   कॉलेजों  and  विश्वविद्यालयों  in the U.S. state  of   इलिनोइस  .
सतह  of the Atlantic ocean meeting the  धरती  's planetary boundary layer and troposphere  .
Waves on an ocean coast .
This animation  उपयोग  Earth science  आंकड़ा   इससे  a variety of sensors  on  NASA Earth observing satellites to measure  शारीरिक   oceanography  parameters such as ocean  currents   ,  ocean winds , sea  सतह   ऊँचाई  and sea surface temperature .
An  समंदर  ( ; the  संसार  Ocean  of  classical antiquity ) is a  देह   of  saline  जल  that composes  a  large part  of   a  planet 's hydrosphere  .
in  the  कॉन्टेक्स्ट   of  Earth  ,  it  refers  to one  or  all of  the  major divisions of the planet 's World Ocean –  वे  are ,  in   descending  order of area ,  the  Pacific ,  अटलांटिक   ,  Indian ,  दक्षिणी  ( Antarctic )  ,   और   आर्कटिक  Oceans .
The word `` sea `` is often used interchangeably  साथ  `` ocean '' , but strictly speaking  a  sea is a body  of  saline water ( possibly a  प्रभाग  of  the  World  समंदर  )  partly  or fully enclosed by land .
धरती  is the only planet known to have  an   समंदर  (  or  any large amounts of  खोलें  liquid water  )  .
Approximately 72 %  of  the planet 's  सतह  ( ~3.6x108 km2 )  is  covered by saline  जल   कि   is  customarily  विभाजित   into  several principal oceans and smaller seas , with  the   समंदर  covering  लगभग  71 % of  the   धरती  's surface .
In terms of the hydrosphere of  the  Earth , the ocean contains 97 %  of  the Earth 's  जल  .
Oceanographers have stated that  आउट  of  97  % , only  5   %  of the ocean as a whole on Earth has been explored  .
क्युकी  it is  the  principal component of Earth 's  जलमंडल  , the world ocean is  अभिन्न  to  सब  known  जीवन  , forms part of the carbon cycle , and  प्रभाव   जलवायु  and  मौसम   पैटर्न  .
The total volume is approximately 1.3 billion cubic  किलोमीटर  ( 310 million cu  mi  )  साथ  an average depth of .
It  is  the habitat of 230,000  ज्ञात  species , although much of  the  ocean  's  depths remain unexplored and it is estimated that over two million marine  प्रजाति   मौजूद  .
The origin  of  Earth 's oceans  is  still unknown ,  लकिन   महासागर  are believed to  have   formed  in the Hadean  काल  and may have been the  impetus  for  the  emergence of life  .
Extraterrestrial  महासागर  may be  रचित   of   a  wide range  of  elements  और  compounds .
The only confirmed  विशाल  stable bodies  of  extraterrestrial  सतह   liquids   हैं   the  lakes of Titan , although there is evidence for the existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar  प्रणाली  .
Early in their geologic histories , Mars and Venus are  theorized   to   have   था  large  जल   महासागर  .
the  Mars ocean hypothesis suggests that nearly  a   तीसरा  of the surface of Mars was  एकबार  covered  by  water , though the  जल  on Mars  is  no longer  oceanic  ,  और   a  runaway  ग्रीनहाउस  effect may have boiled away  the   वैश्विक  ocean of Venus .
Compounds such  as  salts  और  ammonia dissolved in  जल  lower  इसके  freezing  पाइंट  , so that water might  मौजूद  in large  quantities  in extraterrestrial environments as  brine   or   convecting  ice  .
Unconfirmed oceans are speculated beneath  the  surface of many  बौना  planets and natural satellites ;  notably  ,  the  ocean of Europa  is  believed  to  have over  twice  the  जल  volume of  धरती   .
the  Solar System  's   गैस  giant  ग्रह   हैं  also believed  to  possess liquid atmospheric  परतों  of  yet  to be confirmed compositions .
महासागर  may also  मौजूद   on   exoplanets  and exomoons , including  सतह   महासागर  of liquid water within a circumstellar habitable  मण्डल  .
Ocean planets  हैं   a  hypothetical type of  ग्रह  with  a  surface completely  covered   साथ  liquid  .
एल्विस  Aaron Presley  (   जनवरी  8 , 1935 – August  16  , 1977 ) was an  अमरीकी  singer and actor .
A cultural icon  ,  he  is   commonly  known by the single name Elvis  .
One of the most popular musicians of  the   20th  century , he is  प्रायः  referred to as the `` King of Rock and Roll ''  or  `` the King ''  .
Born in Tupelo , Mississippi  ,  Presley moved to  मेम्फिस  , Tennessee  ,  with his  परिवार   at   the   आयु  of 13 .
He  began   उसके  career there  in  1954  ,  working  साथ  Sun Records owner Sam Phillips , who  चाही  to bring the sound of African-American music to a  wider  audience .
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore  और  bassist  विधेयक  Black , Presley  थी  the most important  popularizer   of  rockabilly ,  an  uptempo  ,  backbeat -driven fusion of country  और  rhythm and  ब्लूज़  .
आरसीए  Victor  acquired  his  अनुबंध  in  a  deal arranged  by   कर्नल  Tom  पार्कर   ,  who went  on  to manage  the   सिंगर   लिये  over  दो   दशकों  .
Presley  's   पहला   आरसीए  single  ,   ``  Heartbreak Hotel `` , released in January  1956  , was  a  number-one hit .
He became the leading figure of the newly popular sound of rock and  फेंकें  with  a  series of network television appearances and chart-topping records  .
उसके  energized interpretations of songs ,  अनेक  from African-American sources , and his uninhibited performance style made him  enormously  popular—and controversial .
In November 1956 , he  बना   उसके  film  डेब्यू  in  प्रेम  Me Tender  .
Drafted into military service in 1958  ,   प्रेस्ली   relaunched  his recording career two years later with  कुछ  of his most commercially  कामयाब   कार्य  .
He staged few concerts however  ,   और  guided  by   पार्कर  , proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to making  हॉलीवुड  movies and  साउंडट्रैक  albums  ,  most of  उन्हें  critically derided .
In 1968 , after seven years away from the  स्टेज  , he returned to live performance  in   a  celebrated comeback television special that led to an  विस्तारित   लास  Vegas concert residency  और  a string  of  profitable tours .
in   1973   प्रेस्ली   मंचन   the   पहला  concert broadcast globally via satellite  ,   aloha  from Hawaii .
नुस्खा  drug abuse severely deteriorated  उसके  health ,  और  he died  एकाएक  in 1977 at the age of 42 .
Presley is  regarded  as one  of  the most important  आंकड़े   of  20th-century  लोकप्रिय  culture  .
He had  a   बहुमुखी  voice and unusually wide  कामयाबी  encompassing  अनेक   जाति  , including country , pop ballads , gospel , and blues .
He is the best-selling  सोलो  artist in the history of popular music .
मनोनीत  for 14 competitive Grammys , he  जीती  three  ,   और  received the Grammy Lifetime  उपलब्धि   पुरस्कार  at age  36  .
He has been inducted into  अनेक  music halls of  कीर्ति  .
A glass  of   रूट  beer with  झाग
रूट   बियर   is  a  कार्बोनेटेड   ,  sweetened  पेय  , originally made using the root of  a   sassafras  plant ( or the bark of  a  sassafras tree  )  as the primary flavor  .
Root beer , popularized  in  North America , comes in two forms : alcoholic  और  soft drink .
The  ऐतिहासिक   रूट  beer was analogous to  छोटी  beer  in  that  the  process provided  a   पेय  with  a  very low alcohol  सामग्री  .
Although roots are  प्रयुक्त   as  the source of many soft  पेय  throughout the world , often  अलग   names  are  प्रयुक्त  .
Fluorescent minerals  emit  visible light when exposed  to  ultraviolet light
Fluorescence is the  उत्सर्जन  of  लाइट  by  a  substance that has absorbed light  or  other  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   विकिरण  .
It is a  रूप  of luminescence .
In most cases  ,  the  उत्सर्जित   लाइट  has a longer wavelength , and therefore lower energy ,  than  the  अवशोषित   विकिरण   .
However , when the absorbed electromagnetic  विकिरण  is intense , it is possible for one electron  to  absorb  दो   photons  ; this two-photon absorption can lead  to  emission of radiation  having  a  shorter  wavelength  than  the absorbed radiation  .
The  उत्सर्जित  radiation may  भी  be of the same wavelength as the absorbed  विकिरण  , termed ``  अनुनाद   प्रतिदीप्ति  '' .
the  most  striking  examples of  प्रतिदीप्ति  occur  जब   the  absorbed radiation is in  the  ultraviolet region of the  वर्णक्रम  , and  यूँ  invisible to  the  human  नजर  , and  the   उत्सर्जित   लाइट   is  in  the  visible  प्रदेश  .
Fluorescence  रै  many  व्यावहारिक  applications , including mineralogy  ,  gemology ,  रासायनिक  sensors  (  fluorescence  स्पेक्ट्रमिकी  ) ,  fluorescent   लेबलिंग  , dyes , biological detectors , and , most  commonly  , fluorescent lamps .
Informal logic  ,  intuitively  ,  refers to the principles  of  logic and logical thought outside  of   a   औपचारिक   सेटिंग  .
However ,  शायद  because of the informal in the title  ,  the  precise  definition of  अनौपचारिक   लॉजिक  is  a  matter of  कुछ  dispute .
Ralph H.  जॉनसन  and  J.   एंथोनी  Blair define informal  लॉजिक  as `` a  शाखा  of logic  जिनकी  task is to  develop   non-formal  standards ,  मापदण्ड  , procedures for  the  analysis  ,  interpretation  ,   मूल्यांकन  , criticism and construction of  argumentation   .  ''
This definition reflects  कया   था   महरूम   अव्यक्त   in   उनके   अभ्यास  and what others  यहूद  doing in their informal logic texts .
Informal logic is associated with ( informal ) fallacies  ,  critical thinking , the Thinking Skills  गति  and  the  interdisciplinary inquiry known  as  argumentation theory  .
Frans H. van Eemeren  writes  that the label ``  अनौपचारिक  logic '' covers  a   ``  collection of normative approaches to  the  study of reasoning in ordinary language that remain closer to the practice of argumentation  than  formal logic . ''
यूएसए  annual real GDP 1910–60  ,  with the  सालो  of the Great  अवसाद  ( 1929–1939  )   highlighted  .
बेरोजगारी  rate  in   the  US 1910–1960 , with the  सालो  of the  ग्रेट  Depression  (  1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The Great Depression began in August  of  1929  ,  when the United States economy first went into an economic recession  .
हालांकि  the country spent two months with  घटती  GDP  ,   it  was not until the  वॉल  Street Crash  of  October , 1929 that the effects  of  a  घटती  economy were  लगा  , and a  प्रमुख  worldwide economic  downturn  ensued  .
The market crash marked the beginning of a  दशक  of high unemployment  ,   गरीबी  , low profits ,  अपस्फीति   ,  plunging farm incomes , and  खोया  opportunities for economic growth and personal  उन्नति  .
Although its causes  हैं   स्टिल   अनिश्चित  and  विवादास्पद   ,   the  net effect was a sudden and general loss of confidence in the economic  भविष्य  .
the  usual  स्पष्टीकरण  include numerous factors , especially high consumer  कर्ज़  ,  ill-regulated  markets that permitted  overoptimistic  loans by banks and investors  ,  and  the  lack of  high-growth   नई  industries , all interacting to create  a  downward  आर्थिक   सर्पिल  of  घटाया  spending  ,  falling confidence , and lowered production .
उद्योग   कि  suffered the most  शामिल   निर्माण  ,  कृषि  as  dust-bowl   शर्तें  persisted in  the  agricultural  heartland  ,  शिपिंग  , mining ,  और  logging as  खूब  as durable goods  जैसे  automobiles  और   उपकरण  that could be  स्थगित  .
The  अर्थव्यवस्था  reached bottom in the  शीत  of 1932–33  ;  then came four years of very rapid growth until 1937 , when  the  Recession  of   1937  brought back 1934 levels of unemployment  .
The Depression caused major  राजनैतिक  changes in America .
Three  सालो   into  the depression , Herbert  हूवर   खोया  the  1932  presidential  चुनाव   to  Franklin Delano Roosevelt  in   a  sweeping landslide  .
Roosevelt  's   आर्थिक  recovery plan ,  the   नई  Deal , instituted unprecedented  कार्यक्रम  for relief ,  रिकवरी  and reform  ,  and  brought  about a major realignment  of  American politics .
The  अवसाद   भी  resulted  in  an increase of emigration of  लोगों  to  अन्य   देशों  for the first  समय  in American  इतिहास  .
For example , some  आप्रवासियों  went back to their  देशी   देशों   ,  and  कुछ  native US citizens went to Canada , Australia ,  और  South Africa  .
It also resulted  in  the mass migration of people from badly hit areas in the Great Plains and the South to  स्थान  such as California and the North , respectively  (   देखिए   okies  and  the  Great  माइग्रेशन  of African Americans ) .
Racial tensions  भी  increased during this time .
By  the  1940s immigration  था   लौटे  back  to   सामान्य  ,  और   करणों   अस्वीकृत  .
A well-known example of an emigrant was Frank McCourt , who went to Ireland ,  as  recounted in  उसके  book Angela 's Ashes  .
The memory of the  अवसाद  also  तराशा  modern  theories   of  economics and  resulted  in  अनेक   परिवर्तन   in   कैसा   the  government dealt with  आर्थिक   downturns  , such as the use  of  stimulus  पैकेज   ,   keynesian  economics , and  सोशल  Security  .
It  भी  shaped modern American  साहित्य  , resulting  in  famous novels such  as  John Steinbeck 's `` The Grapes of Wrath `` and ``  of  Mice and Men `` .
The  ग्रेट  Depression  of  the 1930s started with the stock market crash of  अक्तूबर  1929 .
Turkey (  )  , officially the Republic of Turkey ,  is  a transcontinental country ,  स्तिथ   ज़्यादातर  on Anatolia in Western Asia and  on  East Thrace in Southeastern  यूरोपीय   .
Turkey  is  bordered by eight countries : Bulgaria  to  the  उत्तरपश्चिम  ;  यूनानियों  to the  वेस्ट   ;  Georgia to the  पूर्वोत्तर  ; Armenia , Iran  और  the  अज़रबैजानी  exclave  of   nakhchivan  to the east ; and Iraq  और   सीरियाई  to the southeast .
The Mediterranean Sea  is  to the south  ;   the  Aegean Sea is to the  वेस्ट  ; and the  ब्लैक  Sea is to  the  north  .
the  Sea of  मरमरा   ,   the   bosphorus  and the Dardanelles ( which together form the  तुर्की  Straits ) demarcate  the   boundary  between  thrace   और   आनातोलिया  ; they also separate  यूरोपीय   और  Asia .
Turkey  's  location at  the  crossroads of Europe and Asia makes it a country of significant geostrategic importance .
the  country  's  official language is Turkish , a  turkic  language , which is spoken by approximately 85 % of the population as mother tongue .
The most numerous  जातीय  group is  the  Turks , who  constitute   between   70  % and 75 %  of  the  जनसांख्यिकी  according  to  The World Factbook .
Kurds  हैं  the largest  जातीय  minority and  ,  according to the  वही  source ,  क्रमांक   around   18  % of the  जनसांख्यिकी  while other  जातीय   अल्पसंख्यकों  are estimated to be at 7–12  %  .
The vast  बहुमत  of the  जनसांख्यिकी   is  Muslim  .
The area  अभी  called  तुर्कों  has been inhabited since the Paleolithic , including  विभिन्न  Ancient  आनातोलियाई   सभ्यताओं  and Thracian peoples .
After Alexander the Great  's  conquest  ,  the  क्षेत्रफल   थी  Hellenized , which continued  साथ  the  रोमन  rule and the transition into  the  Byzantine Empire .
the  Seljuk Turks began migrating  into  the  क्षेत्रफल  in  the  11th century , starting  the  process of Turkification  ,  which was  greatly   त्वरित  by the Seljuk  विजय   over  the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in  1071  .
The  सलजूक़  Sultanate of Rûm ruled Anatolia until the Mongol invasion  in  1243 , upon which  it  disintegrated  into  several small Turkish beyliks .
Starting from the late  13th  century  ,   the  Ottoman beylik  संयुक्त  Anatolia and created an  साम्राज्य  encompassing  much  of Southeastern Europe  ,  Western  एशिया  and North  अफ़्रीकी  .
बाद  the  उस्मानी   साम्राज्य   collapsed  following its  शिकस्त  in  संसार   युद्ध  I , parts of it were  occupied   by  the  विजयी  Allies .
a  cadre of  यंग   सैन्य   अधिकारियों  , led  by  Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and his colleagues , organized a successful resistance to the Allies ; in 1923 they established the modern Republic of Turkey , with Atatürk as its  पहला  president .
Turkey is a democratic , secular ,  एकात्मक   ,  constitutional  गणतंत्र   साथ  a diverse cultural heritage  .
Turkey has become increasingly integrated  साथ  the West through membership in  संगठनों  such as the  परिषद  of Europe , NATO , OECD , OSCE and the G-20 major economies .
Turkey began full membership  negotiations   साथ  the European Union  in   2005  ,  having  been an associate member of the European Economic Community  चूंकि  1963 and having joined the  eu  Customs  संघ  in 1995 .
Turkey has also fostered  बंद  cultural  ,  political and economic relations with the  मध्य  East , Caucasus  ,  the  turkic   राज्य  of  सेंट्रल  Asia and  the  African countries through  सदस्यता  in  संगठनों  such as the  turkic  Council  ,  Joint Administration of Turkic Arts  और  Culture , Organisation of  इस्लामी  Cooperation  और  the  आर्थिक   सहयोग  Organisation  .
Turkey 's  growing   अर्थव्यवस्था   और  diplomatic initiatives  have  led  to  its recognition as a regional power  .
तुर्कों  is the world 's  17th  largest economy by nominal  जीडीपी   और  the 16th largest  by   खरीदना  power parity  .
Caryn Elaine  जॉनसन   ,  best known  as  Whoopi Goldberg  (  , ( born November  13   ,   1955  ) is an  अमरीकी  comedienne ,  अभिनेत्री   ,   singer-songwriter   ,  political activist ,  लेखक  and  बात   दिखाएँ  host .
गोल्डबर्ग  made her  फिल्मी  debut in  the  Color Purple  (  1985 ) ,  playing   celie   ,  a mistreated  ब्लैक  woman in  the  Deep South .
She received  a  nomination  लिये  the  अकादमी  Award for Best Actress and won her first  सुनहरी  Globe  पुरस्कार   लिये   उसके  role  in  the film .
In 1990 , she  निभाई   oda  Mae Brown , a  wacky   मानसिक  helping  a  slain man (  पैट्रिक  Swayze ) save his lover (  demi  Moore  )  in  the   ब्लॉकबस्टर  Ghost .
This performance won  उसके   a   दूसरी  Golden Globe  और  an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress  ;  this made Goldberg  तभी   the  second black  स्त्री  in the history  of  the  अकादमी  Awards to win an  एक्टिंग   oscar—the   पहला  being Hattie  mcdaniel   जो  won for Gone With the Wind in  1939   .
notable  later films include  सिस्टर  Act and  सिस्टर  Act  2  , The Player  ,   बना   in  America  ,  How  स्टेला  Got  उसके  Groove Back , Girl ,  बाधित  and Rat Race  .
वो  is also acclaimed  लिये  her  भूमिकाएँ   as   the  bartender  guinan   in  Star Trek : The Next Generation , as  टेरी  Doolittle in  jumpin  ' Jack Flash  ,  and as  कार्मेन  Tibideaux in Glee  ,  as well as the  आवाज़   of   shenzi   the   लकड़बग्घा  in The  शेर  King  .
Goldberg has been nominated  लिये   13  Emmy Awards  लिये   उसके  work  in  television .
She was co-producer  of  the popular game show Hollywood  वर्गों  from 1998 to 2004  .
She has been the moderator of the daytime talk show The View since  2007  .
Goldberg has  a  Grammy , two Daytime  emmys   ,  two Golden Globes ,  a   टोनी   (  for production , not acting ) , and  an  Oscar .
In  जोड   ,  Goldberg has  a   अंग्रेजों  Academy  फिल्मी   पुरस्कार  , four People 's Choice Awards ,  और   रै  been honored with a star on the  हॉलीवुड  Walk of  कीर्ति  .
She  is  one  of  the few entertainers who have won  an  Emmy  ,   ग्रैमी  , Oscar , and Tony Award .
Augusta is  a  consolidated city  in   the  U.S.  राज्य  of  जॉर्जिया  , located  at   the   पतन   लकीर  of  the  Savannah River ,  at  the head  of  its  navigable  portion  .
As of the  2010  census , the Augusta– Richmond County population  थी  195,844 not  गिनती   the   unconsolidated  cities of Hephzibah and  blythe  .
Augusta is the principal  नगर  of  the  Augusta  –  Richmond  काउंटी  Metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय  Area ,  जिससे  as of  2010  had an estimated  जनसांख्यिकी  of 556,877 , making it both the second-largest city and the  second-largest  metro area in the state after Atlanta  .
it   is  the 116th-largest city in the  संयुक्त  States .
Internationally  ,  Augusta is best known for hosting  the  Masters  टूर्नामेंट  in golf each spring .
A CD-ROM ( )  is  a  pre-pressed  compact disc which contains  आंकड़ा  .
the   नाम  is an  एक्रोनिम  which stands for  ``  Compact Disc Read-only memory  ``  .
कंप्यूटर  can  पढ़ा  CD-ROMs , but can  नहीं  write on  उन्हें  .
cd-roms  are  popularly   प्रयुक्त   to   वितरित  computer software , including video games and multimedia  अनुप्रयोग  , though any data can be stored  (  up to  the  capacity  सीमा  of a disc  )  .
कुछ   cds   ,   पुकारा  enhanced CDs , hold both computer  आंकड़ा   और  audio with the  latter   सक्षम  of being  निभाई  on a CD player , while data (  ऐसे  as software or  डिजिटल  video  )  is  तभी  usable on a computer ( such  as  ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs  )  .
The Yellow Book  is  the  तकनीकी  standard  कि  defines the  स्वरूप  of CD-ROMs  .
एक  of  a  set of  color-bound  books  कि   contain  the  तकनीकी   विशेषताएँ  for  सब  CD formats , the Yellow Book , created by Sony and Philips  ,   थी  the  पहला   एक्सटेंशन   of   कॉम्पैक्ट  Disc Digital Audio .
It  adapted  the format to  थाम  any form  of   आंकड़ा  .
The  शिकागो  Blackhawks ( spelled as Black Hawks before  1986  ,  और  known colloquially  as  the Hawks ) are a professional ice  हॉकी   टोली  based in Chicago , Illinois .
They  हैं   सदस्यों  of the Central Division  of   the   पश्चिमी  Conference  of   the  National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
वे  have  जीती   चार  Stanley Cup  championships  since  उनके   founding  in  1926   ,   सबसे  recently  in  2009–10 .
The Blackhawks are one of the  असली  Six  एनएचएल   टीमों  , along with  the   डेट्रॉयट  Red Wings ,  मॉन्ट्रियल  Canadiens , Toronto Maple Leafs ,  बोस्टन   bruins   और   नई  York Rangers .
Since the Blackhawks have played their  घर   खेल  at the United Center after  having  spent 65 years playing at Chicago  स्टेडियम  .
lent  celebrants carrying  आउट  a street procession during Holy  सप्ताह   .
The violet  रंग  is  प्रायः  associated with penance  और  detachment .
समान   ईसाई   penitential  practice is seen in other  कैथोलिक  countries , sometimes associated with  mortification  of the flesh .
Granada  ,   निकारागुआ  .
Lent  (  Latin  :  Quadragesima )  is  a solemn  observance  in the liturgical year of many  ईसाई  denominations ,  स्थायी  for a period of approximately six weeks leading up to Easter  संडे   .
in  the  सामान्य  Latin-rite  और   सबसे  Western  denominations  Lent  is  taken  to  run from Ash  बुधवार  to Maundy Thursday ( Holy Thursday )  morning  or to Easter  संध्या   .
in  the Catholic  गिरिजाघर  , Lent lasts until  पावन  Thursday  ,  while other denominations run  जबतक  Easter Eve  .
The traditional purpose  of   lent   is  the preparation of the believer through prayer , penance , repentance , almsgiving  ,  and self-denial .
Its  संस्थागत   purpose   is   heightened  in the  सालाना   commemoration   of   पावन   सप्ताह  , marking the death , burial and resurrection of  यीशु  ,  जिससे   recalls  the events of the Bible when Jesus is crucified on Good  शुक्रवार   ,  which then  culminates   in   the  celebration on Easter Sunday of the Resurrection of  यीशु   मसीह   .
दौरान  Lent  ,  many of the  वफादार   कमिट  to fasting or  giving  up  निश्चित  types of  luxuries  as a  रूप   of  penitence .
the   स्टेशन   of  the Cross  ,   a  devotional commemoration of Christ 's carrying the Cross  और  of his execution , are often observed .
Many Roman Catholic  और  some  प्रोटोस्टेंट  churches remove flowers  इससे   उनके  altars  ,  while crucifixes ,  धार्मिक   मूर्तियाँ   ,  and  अन्य  elaborate  धार्मिक  symbols  हैं  often veiled in violet fabrics in solemn observance  of  the event .
In certain pious  कैथोलिक  countries  ,  some adherents mark the season with the traditional abstention from the  खपत   of   मांस  .
In some  देशों   ,  grand religious  जुलूसों  and  सांस्कृतिक   कस्टम  are observed , and  the  faithful attempt to visit seven  चर्च  during Holy Week in  सम्मान  of  यीशु  Christ heading to Mount  कलवारी  .
Lent is traditionally described as lasting for  चालीस  days  ,  in commemoration of  the  forty days which  ,   according  to the Gospels of Matthew  ,  Mark  और  Luke  ,  Jesus  खर्च   उपवास  in  the  desert before the beginning of  उसके  public ministry  ,  where he  endured   प्रलोभन  by the  शैतान  .
However , different Christian denominations  गणना  the forty days  of  Lent differently .
In  सबसे   पश्चिमी   परंपराओं   the  Sundays are  नहीं  counted as  भाग  of  lent  ; thus the period  इससे  Ash  बुधवार  until Easter  consists  of 40 days  जब   the  Sundays are excluded  .
However in  the  Roman Catholic  गिरिजाघर  Lent is  अभी  taken to end  on   पावन   गुरुवार   बल्कि   than   ईस्टर  Eve , and  hence  lasts 38 days  excluding  Sundays  ,  or  44   दिनों  in  कुल  .
This  इवेंट   ,  along with  इसके   परहेज़गारों  customs  हैं  observed by Catholics  ,  Lutherans  ,   methodists   ,   presbyterians   ,  and Anglicans .
Location of Chernobyl  नाभिकीय  power  संयंत्र
the  abandoned city  of  Pripyat with Chernobyl plant in the distance
Abandoned housing  ब्लॉक  in Pripyat
the   chernobyl   विपत्ति   (  , Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that  occurred   on  26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear  शक्ति  Plant  in  Ukraine (  तब  officially the Ukrainian SSR )  ,  which  थी   अंतर्गत   the   सीधा   क्षेत्राधिकार   of  the  सेंट्रल  authorities  of   the  Soviet Union .
an  explosion and fire released large quantities  of   रेडियोसक्रिय  particles  into   the  atmosphere ,  जिससे  spread over much of the western  ussr  and  यूरोपीय  .
the   chernobyl  disaster  is  widely considered  to  have been the worst nuclear  शक्ति  plant accident in history , and is  एक  of only two classified as a level 7 event on the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   नाभिकीय   इवेंट  Scale ( the other being the Fukushima  daiichi   नाभिकीय  disaster in 2011  )  .
The  बैटल  to  contain  the contamination and  avert  a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over  500,000  workers and cost an estimated  18   अरब  rubles  .
The  आधिकारिक  Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been disputed , and long-term effects such as cancers  और  deformities  हैं  still being  accounted  for .
In grammar  ,  a  विषय   पूरक  is a predicative expression that follows a linking verb  (  copula ) and  कि  complements  (   completes  ) the  विषय   of  the sentence by either ( 1 )  renaming   it  or ( 2  )   describing  it .
in  the former  मामला   ,   a  renaming noun  phrase  such as  a  noun or pronoun is called  a  predicative nominal  .
An adjective  following  the copula  और  describing the subject is called a predicative adjective  .
in  either case the predicative complement in effect  mirrors  the  विषय  .
विषय   complements   हैं  used with a  छोटी  class  of   क्रियाएँ  called linking verbs or copula , of  जिससे  be is  the   सबसे   आम  .
Since copula are  stative  verbs ,  विषय  complements are not affected by  कोई   कार्रवाई   of  the  क्रिया  .
विषय   complements  are typically not clause arguments , nor  हैं  they  clause  adjuncts .
Throughout  the  fifty-five year history of the  ग्रैमी  Awards  ,  many significant records have been set .
इस  page  तभी  includes  the  competitive awards won by  विभिन्न  artists .
इस   करता  not include the various special  पुरस्कार  that are  प्रस्तुत  by  the   नेशनल   अकादमी  of Recording Arts  और  Sciences such  as   आजीवन   उपलब्धि  Awards  ,  Trustees Awards , Technical Awards or  लेजेंड  Awards  .
The page however does include  अन्य  non-performance related Grammys ( known  as   the   शिल्प  &  उत्पादन  Fields ) that  may  have been presented to the artist  (   s  ) .
Marshall Bruce Mathers III ( born October 17 ,  1972  )  ,  better  ज्ञात  by his stage  नाम  Eminem  (  stylized as  eminǝm  ) and by  उसके   alter  ego Slim  छायादार   ,   is  an American rapper  ,  record producer , songwriter  और   कर्ता  .
एमिनेम  , along with his  सोलो   करियर  ,  is   a  member  of  his group D12  ,  and also one half of the hip  हॉप   duo  Bad Meets Evil , with Royce  da   5'9  ''  .
Eminem is one of the  best-selling   कलाकारों   in  the  संसार  and is the best-selling artist  of   the   2000s  .
he   रै  been  सूचीबद्ध  and ranked as one of  the  greatest  कलाकारों  of all time by  अनेक  magazines , including  रोलिंग   स्टोन  magazine which ranked him  82nd  on its list of  the  100 Greatest Artists  of  All Time .
The  वही  magazine declared  उसे  The  किंग  of  हिप  Hop .
Including his work with  d12   और  Bad Meets Evil , Eminem has achieved ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200 .
he   रै  sold more than 100  लाख  records worldwide , including 42 million  ट्रैक्स   और   49.1  million  एल्बम  in  the  United States .
As an underground rapper Eminem  released  his debut  सोलो   एल्बम  ,  अनन्त  in 1996 .
the  album was a critical and commercial failure .
He  gained  mainstream  लोकप्रियता  in 1999  बाद  the  रिलीज   of  his major-label debut album The Slim Shady LP .
The  lp  also earned Eminem his first Grammy  पुरस्कार   लिये  Best Rap Album  .
उसके   अगला  two  रिकॉर्ड   the   मार्शल  Mathers LP  ,  and The  एमिनेम  Show , also won Best Rap  एल्बम  Grammy  पुरस्कार  , making  एमिनेम  the  पहला  artist  to   जीत   बेहतरीन  Rap  एल्बम  for  तीन  consecutive LPs  .
This was followed by  another   स्टुडियो  release in 2004 titled  encore  .
एमिनेम  then  गई  on hiatus after  touring  in 2005 .
He  released  his first  एल्बम  in five years  titled   पतन   ,  on May 15 , 2009  .
In  2010   ,  Eminem released  उसके  seventh studio  एल्बम   रिकवरी  .
Recovery was an international success and was  नामित  the best selling album of 2010 worldwide ,  joining  The Eminem  दिखाएँ  , which  थी  the  बेहतरीन  seller of  2002  .
Eminem  जीती   ग्रैमी  Awards  लिये   दोनो   पतन  and Recovery ,  giving  him  a   कुल  of 13  grammys  in his career  .
एमिनेम  has  खोली  other ventures , including his own record label  छायादार  Records with  उसके  manager Paul Rosenberg .
he   भी   रै  his  अपना  radio channel , Shade 45 on  sirius  XM Radio .
Eminem began an  एक्टिंग  career  in  2002 , when he starred  in   the  hip hop drama film 8 Mile .
he  won the Academy Award for Best  असली  Song , becoming the first rap artist ever  to   जीत  the award .
He has also  बना  cameo appearances  in  The Wash  (  2001 ) , Funny People  (  2009 ) and  the  television  श्रेणी   अनुगामी  .
The  एकड़  is  a   ईकाई  of  क्षेत्रफल  used in  the  imperial and U.S.  प्रथागत  systems  .
An  एकड़  is  परिचय  40 % of a hectare –  थोड़ा  smaller than an American football field .
the  acre is  no  longer commonly used ,  हालांकि  a few notable  अपवाद  include  the  United States , Australia  ,  Burma and the  संयुक्त  Kingdom  (  as of 2010 , the acre is no longer officially used in  the  United  किंगडम  , though is  स्टिल   प्रयुक्त  in  रियल   एस्टेट  descriptions ) .
It  is   स्टिल  used , to some  extent  ,  in  Canada  .
the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   प्रतीक  of  the  acre  is   ac   ,  and is defined  as  1/640 of a square mile  .
the   सबसे  commonly used acre today is the international  एकड़  .
In  the  United States both the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   एकड़   और  the slightly different US survey  एकड़   हैं  in use .
The most common  उपयोग  of the acre is  to   माप  tracts of land  .
एक   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   एकड़  is defined  as   4046.8564224   वर्गाकार  metres .
दौरान   the  Middle Ages  ,  an acre was the amount of  जमीन  that could be plowed in  एक  day with a yoke of oxen .
एंटोनी   लाव्वाज़्ये  's discovery of  the  Law of Conservation of Mass  led  to many new findings in the 19th century  .
जोसेफ   proust   's  law of  definite  proportions  और  John Dalton  's  atomic theory branched  इससे  the discoveries  of   एंटोनी  Lavoisier .
Lavoisier 's quantitative experiments  नाज़िल  that combustion involved oxygen  बल्कि   than  what  थी   previously  thought to be phlogiston .
The law of  संरक्षण  of  द्रव्यमान  , or principle of mass conservation ,  राज्य  that  लिये  any  प्रणाली  closed  to  all transfers of matter and  उर्जा   (  both of which have mass ) ,  the  mass of the system must remain  निरंतर  over time , as system  द्रव्यमान  can not change  मात्रा  if it is not added  or   removed  .
Hence , the quantity of mass is `` conserved '' over time .
the  law implies  कि   द्रव्यमान  can neither be  निर्मित  nor destroyed  ,  although it may be  rearranged  in space  ,   or  the  entities   संबद्ध  with it  may  be  बदला  in form , as for example when light  or   शारीरिक  work is transformed  into  particles  कि  contribute  the   वही  mass to  the  system  as   the  light or work had contributed  .
The law implies ( requires )  कि  during any  रासायनिक  reaction , nuclear  प्रतिक्रिया  , or  रेडियोसक्रिय  decay  in   an  isolated  प्रणाली   ,  the mass of  the   reactants  or starting  सामग्री  must  बराबर  the mass of the products  .
The concept of mass  संरक्षण  is  widely  used in  अनेक  fields  ऐसे  as  रसायन   ,  mechanics , and  द्रव  dynamics .
historically  ,  द्रव्यमान  conservation  थी   खोजा  in chemical  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  by Antoine Lavoisier in the  लेट  18th  सदी  , and was  of   निर्णायक  importance  in  the  प्रगति   इससे  alchemy to the modern natural science  of  chemistry  .
The closely  सम्बन्धित  concept of  पदार्थ  conservation was found to hold good in chemistry  to  such high approximation that it  विफल  only for the  ऊँची   energies   treated  by  the  later  refinements  of relativity theory  ,  but  वरना  remains  उपयोगी  and sufficiently accurate for most chemical calculations , even in  आधुनिक  practice .
In  खास  relativity ,  needed   लिये  accuracy  जब   विशाल  energy  हस्तांतरण  between systems is involved , the difference between thermodynamically closed and  पृथक  systems  becomes   महत्वपूर्ण  ,  चूंकि   संरक्षण  of  द्रव्यमान  is strictly  और  perfectly upheld only  लिये   so-called  isolated systems , i.e . those  completely  isolated from all exchanges with the  पर्यावरण   .
In this circumstance , the  mass-energy   equivalence  theorem  राज्य   कि  mass  संरक्षण   is  equivalent  to  total energy  संरक्षण   ,  which  is  the first law of thermodynamics  .
By contrast  ,  for a  thermodynamically  closed system (  i.e.  , one which is  बंद  to exchanges of matter  ,  but open to exchanges of non-material energy  ,  such  as  heat and  कार्य  , with the  परिवेश  ) mass  is   (  usually )  तभी  approximately conserved .
The input or output of non-material energy must change the  द्रव्यमान  of the system  in   आपेक्षिकता  theory , although  the  change  is   प्रायः  small  ,  since  अपेक्षाकृत  large  amounts   of  such  उर्जा  (  by  comparison with ordinary experience ) carry only a  छोटी   राशि   of   द्रव्यमान  ( again  by  ordinary standards of measurement )  .
In  खास  relativity ,  द्रव्यमान   is   नहीं   परिवर्तित   to   उर्जा  ,  चूंकि  energy  in  all of its  फ़ॉर्म  always retains its  समतुल्य   राशि   of  mass  throughout  any transformation  or   translocation   into  , or out of ,  a  system .
however   ,   निश्चित  types of  पदार्थ   (  a different concept  )  may be converted  to  energy , so long as  the   द्रव्यमान   of  the  प्रणाली  is unchanged in the process .
However ,  if   ऐसे   उर्जा   is  removed  इससे   प्रणालियों  , they  जरूर  lose the  द्रव्यमान  that is  संबद्ध   साथ  it .
In general  आपेक्षिकता  , mass ( and energy  )  conservation in expanding  आयतन   of  space is a complex concept  ,  subject to  अलग  definitions , and neither mass nor energy  is  as strictly and simply  conserved  as is  the   मामला  in special relativity and in Minkowski space  .
लिये  a discussion  ,  see mass  in   सामान्य  relativity  .
A pig  is  any of the animals  in  the genus Sus  ,   भीतर  the Suidae family of even-toed  ungulates  .
Pigs include  the  domestic pig ,  इसके   पूर्वज  the wild boar , and several other  जंगली  relatives  .
Young and small pigs are known as  piglets  .
Pigs are omnivores  और  are highly  सोशल  and intelligent animals .
8-inch , -inch , and -inch floppy  डिस्क
8-inch  ,  -inch  (  पूरा  height )  ,  and -inch drives
A 3.5-inch  diskette  's `` floppy '' magnetic  सामग्री  ,  removed   इससे  its housing
A floppy disk , or diskette  ,  is a disk  भंडार  medium composed  of   a   डिस्क   of  thin and flexible magnetic  भंडार  medium , sealed  in  a rectangular plastic  वाहक  lined with fabric that removes dust  अणु  .
वे  are read  और  written by a floppy disk  ड्राइव   (  FDD )  .
Floppy disks  ,  initially as media and  बाद  in  और   3.5-inch   (  90 mm  )   आकार   ,  were  a   सर्वव्यापी  form  of  data storage and exchange from the  mid-1970s  well into the  पहला  decade  of  the 21st century .
by   2010  , computer motherboards were rarely manufactured with  फ्लॉपी   ड्राइव   support  ; `` floppies could  be  used  as  an  बाह्य  USB drive , but ``  ,  8  ``  ,  और   non-standard   ड्राइव  could  तभी   be   संभाला  by old equipment .
While floppy disk  ड्राइव  still  have  some  सीमित  uses  ,   विशेषकर  with  विरासत   औद्योगिक  computer equipment , they have been superseded  by  data storage  विधि  with  much  greater capacity , such as USB  फ्लैश   ड्राइव  , portable external  मुश्किल  disk drives  ,  optical discs  ,   मेमोरी   ताश  , and computer  संजाल  .
An animated  आरेख  of  a   कटर
in   बेसबॉल   ,   a   कटर   ,   or   काटें  fastball , is a  प्रकार  of fastball which breaks slightly toward the pitcher 's glove side as it reaches home plate  .
इस   पिच  is  कही   between   a  slider and a fastball  ,  as  it  is usually  thrown  faster than a slider  लकिन  with  अधिक  motion than a typical  fastball  .
Some  pitchers  use  a  cutter as a way  to  prevent hitters  इससे   expecting   उनके  regular fastballs .
A common technique used  to  throw  a  cutter is  to  use a four-seam  fastball  grip with the baseball set slightly  बंद   बीच  in the hand .
When a  बैटर  is able  to  hit a cutter  पिच  , it  प्रायः  results in soft contact and  an  easy  आउट  , due to the  पिच  's  गति   keeping  the  बॉल  away from the bat  's  sweet spot .
The  कटर  is  typically   2–5  mph slower than a  पिचर   's  four-seam  fastball  .
in   2010   ,   the   औसत  pitch classified as a  कटर   by  PITCHf/x thrown by  a  right-handed  पिचर  was  88.6  mph  ;  the average  four-seamer  was  92.1  mph .
``  What It Takes '' is  a  power  ballad   by  American hard  चट्टान  band  एरोस्मिथ  .
It was  लिखा  by Steven Tyler , Joe  पेरी  , and Desmond Child .
it  was  released  in 1990 as the third single from  एरोस्मिथ   's  critically and commercially successful  1989   एल्बम  Pump  .
In  the  video  the  Making of Pump , A & R man John Kalodner described the  सोंग  as  ``  a masterpiece '' .
During live  प्रदर्शन  , Tyler sings the first  श्लोक   a  cappella and belts out  एक   of  his  हस्ताक्षर   चिल्लाती  right before  the  chorus  .
The album version of the  सोंग  is followed by an untitled hidden track  .
सिर  of Odysseus from a Greek 2nd century BC marble  समूह  representing  odysseus  blinding Polyphemus , found at  the   विला  of Tiberius  at  Sperlonga
विवरण   of  an ancient Roman mosaic of Ulysses  in   ट्यूनीशिया
odysseus  (  or  ;  यूनानी  :  ,  ) , also known  by  the Roman  नाम   ulysses  ( ; ) , was a  legendary  Greek king  of   ithaca   और  a hero  of  Homer 's epic  कविता  the Odyssey .
Odysseus also plays a key role in  होमर   's   इलियड  and  अन्य  works in that same Epic Cycle .
Husband  of  Penelope , father of Telemachus , and son of Laërtes ( or  sisyphus  ) and  anticlea  , Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance , guile ,  और  versatility  (   polytropos   )  , and is hence known by the epithet  odysseus   the   cunning  (  mētis   ,   or  `` cunning  प्रज्ञा  `` )  .
He  is  most  प्रसिद्ध  for the  टेन   eventful  years he took to return home after the decade-long  trojan   युद्ध   और  his  प्रसिद्ध  Trojan Horse  ploy  to  कैप्चर  the  नगर   of   ट्रॉय  .
Erie is a Statutory Town  in  Boulder and Weld counties  in  the U.S. state of Colorado .
The population according  to  the 2010 census is  18,135   और  was recorded as  6,291  at  the  2000  जनसांख्यिकी  .
The Town of Erie is located  बस  west  of  I-25 for  आसान  access to  i-70   ,   डेनवर  International Airport and Colorado 's entire  सामने  Range .
Erie  's  Planning Area spans  48   वर्गाकार  miles , extending  इससे  the north  पक्ष  of  राज्य  Highway  52   दक्षिण  to State Highway 7  ,   और  between US 287  on  the  वेस्ट   और  Interstate  25   to   the  east  .
Erie is approximately  35   मिनट्स   इससे  Denver International Airport  ,  25 minutes to Denver and 20 minutes from Boulder .
The Board of Trustees serves as the legislative and  शासी  body of the Town of Erie  और  is  जिम्मेदार   लिये  establishing  कस्बा   नीतियों   और  goals .
The  फलक  has  the   प्राधिकार  to adopt laws , ordinances and resolutions as needed to conduct the business  of  the Town ,  और  by  अध्यादेश  may enter into  अनुबंध   or   intergovernmental  agreements  to   furnish   ,   प्राप्त  services or to provide for  सहकारी  service delivery .
नियुक्त  by and serving at  the  pleasure of  the  Board  of   trustees  , the Town Administrator is  the   मुख्य  operating and administrative officer of the Town and is responsible for providing professional  नेतृत्व  in  the  administration  और   निष्पादन  of policies and  उद्देश्य  formulated by  the  Board .
The  मिशन  of the Erie Police  विभाग   is  to communicate  और  work with the  जातियाँ  to  maintain  a safe  पर्यावरण  ,  prevent  crime  और   enforce   the  law , while protecting the  अधिकारों  of  सब  .
erie   नगरपालिका  Airport  (  EIK ) is owned and operated by the Town  of  Erie  और  is strategically located in  the  Denver-Boulder  महानगर  area on Colorado Highway  7  , a little over three  मील   वेस्ट   of  Interstate 25 .
The main  रनवे   is   कंक्रीट   प्रशस्त   और  4,700 feet  long  .
the  is a home  वीडियो  game console  उत्पादित  by  सोनी   कंप्यूटर  Entertainment .
It is the successor  to  the PlayStation 2  ,  as  भाग   of  the  प्लेस्टेशन  series .
The PlayStation 3 competes  साथ   microsoft  's Xbox  360  and Nintendo 's Wii as part  of  the  सातवाँ   पीढी  of video game  consoles  .
It was first released  on   नवम्बर  11 , 2006  ,  in Japan ,  साथ   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   बाज़ार  following shortly thereafter .
The console was  पहला  officially announced at E3 2005  .
Originally  नियत  for a  वसन्त  2006 release  तिथि  , it was delayed several times until finally hitting stores at  the  end  of  the year .
It was the first and  फिलहाल  only  कंसोल   to  use Blu-ray  डिस्क  as its primary storage  मीडियम  .
Major features of the console include  इसके  unified online gaming  सेवा   ,   the  PlayStation Network , and its connectivity with the  प्लेस्टेशन  Portable  और  PlayStation Vita  ,  In  सितंबर   2009  the updated PlayStation  3  Slim ,  थी   released  .
इस   पतला  is lighter  और  thinner than the original version  ,   हालांकि   it   lacks  PlayStation 2 backwards  संगतता  ( removed on later  असली  models  )  , but notably  प्रदर्शित   a  re-designed logo and  विपणन  design  .
As  of  November 4  ,  2012  ,  70 million  प्लेस्टेशन  3s  have  been sold worldwide  .
इसके  successor ,  प्लेस्टेशन   4  ,  is   नियत  for a  q4  2013  रिलीज   .
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech  ,   1st  Marqués de  dalí   de  Pubol ( May 11 , 1904January  23  , 1989 ) , known  as  Salvador Dalí (  )  ,  थी  a prominent Spanish surrealist painter  born  in  figueres   ,   स्पेन  .
Dalí was  a   skilled   draftsman  ,  बेहतरीन  known for the striking and  विचित्र  images  in  his  surrealist  work .
His painterly skills are  प्रायः  attributed to the influence  of   पुनर्जागरण  masters .
उसके  best-known  कार्य  , The Persistence  of  Memory , was completed in 1931 .
dalí  's  expansive  artistic repertoire included film , sculpture , and  छायाचित्र  , in collaboration with a  दायरा  of artists  in   a  variety  of  media  .
dalí   attributed  his `` love  of  everything  कि  is gilded and excessive , my  जुनून   लिये  luxury and my  प्रेम   of  oriental clothes ''  to  a  self-styled  `` Arab  lineage   ''  ,  claiming  that his ancestors were descended from  the  Moors  .
Dalí was highly imaginative  ,  and  भी  enjoyed indulging  in   असामान्य  and  वैभवशाली  behavior .
His eccentric manner and  attention-grabbing  public actions  sometimes  drew more attention than his artwork  ,   to  the dismay  of   those   जो   आयोजित  his work in high  esteem  , and to the irritation of his critics .
पारस   प्लेटो  by  silanion
The humanities  हैं  academic disciplines  कि  study human culture ,  using   विधि  that are primarily  विश्लेषणात्मक  ,  नाजुक  , or speculative  ,  and having a significant historical element , as  विशिष्ट  from  the   मुख्यतः   अनुभवजन्य  approaches  of  the  प्राकृतिक   sciences  .
The humanities include  प्राचीन  and  आधुनिक  languages , literature  ,   दर्शनशास्त्र  ,  धर्म  , and  विज़ुअल   और  performing arts such as music and theatre  .
The humanities that are also  regarded  as  सोशल   sciences   शामिल  history ,  मानवशास्त्र   ,   क्षेत्रफल  studies  ,  communication studies , cultural  अध्ययन  , law ,  अर्थशास्त्र  and  भाषाविज्ञान  .
Scholars working  in  the humanities are  sometimes  described as `` humanists '' .
however  , that  पद  also  describes  the philosophical position of humanism , which some ``  antihumanist   ``  scholars in the humanities reject .
Some secondary schools offer  मानवता  classes ,  प्रायः   consisting   of  English literature ,  वैश्विक  studies  ,  and art .
Human  disciplines  like history , cultural  मानवशास्त्र  and psychoanalysis study subject matters to which the experimental method does not apply , and they have  अभिगम  instead to  the  comparative  विधि   और  comparative research .
the  2005 Blue Room Christmas Tree
the   श्वेत  House Christmas  पेड़  , also known as  the  Blue Room  क्रिसमस  Tree , is the official indoor  क्रिसमस  tree  at  the  निवास  of  the  President of the United States , the White House  .
The first indoor Christmas tree  थी   संस्थापित  in the  श्वेत  House sometime in  the  19th century  (  there are varying claims as  to  the  सटीक  year  )  and since 1961 the  पेड़  has had  a  themed motif at  the   discretion  of  the  First  महिला  of  the   संयुक्त  States .
The President of  the  United  राज्य   of   अमेरिका  ( POTUS  )  is the head of state  और  head of government of  the   संयुक्त  States .
the  president leads  the  executive branch of  the  federal government and  is   the  commander-in-chief of  the  United States Armed  शक्तियां  .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests  the  executive  शक्ति  of the United States in the president and charges him with  the  execution  of  federal law , alongside  the  responsibility of appointing federal  कार्यपालिका   ,   राजनयिक   ,   नियामक  ,  और  judicial officers  ,  and concluding  treaties   साथ  foreign powers ,  साथ  the advice and  सहमति   of  the Senate .
The president is further empowered  to  grant  संघीय   pardons   और  reprieves , and to  convene   और  adjourn either  or  both  घरों  of Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
Since  the   founding  of  the   संयुक्त  States  ,   the  power of the  अध्यक्ष  and the federal government have  grown  substantially and each modern president , despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond  हस्ताक्षर  or vetoing congressionally  passed  bills  ,   is   largely  responsible for dictating  the   विधान  agenda  of  his  पार्टी  and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States  .
the  president is frequently  वर्णित   as  the most  शक्तिशाली  person in the world .
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College  to  a four-year term , and is one of only  दो  nationally  निर्वाचित  federal officers  ,  the other being  the  Vice  अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
The  twenty-second  Amendment  ,  adopted in 1951  ,  prohibits  anyone  from  कभी  being  निर्वाचित   to   the  presidency  लिये  a third  पूरा  term .
it  also prohibits a person from being elected to  the  presidency more than  एकबार   if  that person previously  था  served  as   अध्यक्ष  , or  एक्टिंग  president  ,  for more  than  two years of another person 's term  as  president  .
In all ,  43  individuals have served 55 four-year terms  .
on   जनवरी  20  ,  2009  ,  Barack Obama  became  the 44th and current  अध्यक्ष  .
On November  6  , 2012  ,  he was re-elected and is  अनुसूचित  to serve until January  20   ,  2017 .
Senses are physiological capacities of organisms  कि  provide data  लिये  perception .
The senses and  उनके  operation , classification , and  सिद्धान्त  are overlapping topics  पढ़ाई  by a  किस्में  of  फ़ील्ड  ,  सबसे   notably  neuroscience , cognitive psychology  (  or  संज्ञानात्मक   विज्ञान   )  , and philosophy of perception  .
The nervous system has  a  specific sensory system or  अंग  ,  समर्पित   to  each sense .
इंसानो  have a multitude  of   होश  .
sight  ( ophthalmoception )  ,   सुनना  ( audioception ) , taste ( gustaoception  )  ,  महकते  (  olfacoception  or olfacception ) , and touch ( tactioception  )  are  the  five  traditionally  recognized .
While the ability  to   detect  other stimuli beyond those  governed   by   the  traditional senses exists ,  सहित  temperature ( thermoception ) , kinesthetic sense  (  proprioception  )  , pain ( nociception ) ,  संतुलन  ( equilibrioception  )  , acceleration (  kinesthesioception  ) , and various  आतंरिक  stimuli ( e.g  .  the different chemoreceptors  लिये   detecting  salt  और  carbon dioxide concentrations  in  the blood ) , only a small number of  ये  can safely be classified as separate senses in  और  of  themselves  .
What constitutes a sense  is   a  matter  of  some  बहस   ,  leading  to  difficulties in defining what exactly a sense  is  .
Animals also have receptors to sense  the  world  around   उन्हें   ,  with  डिग्री   of  capability  varying  greatly between  प्रजाति   .
Humans have  a  comparatively  कमजोर  sense of smell ,  जबकि  some animals  may  lack one  or  more  of   the   परंपरागत  five senses .
कुछ  animals  may   भी   सेवन  and interpret sensory  stimuli  in very different  तरीके  .
Some  प्रजाति   of  animals are able to  भाव  the world in a way that  इंसानो  can  नहीं   ,   साथ  some species able  to  sense electrical  और   चुम्बकीय  fields ,  और  detect  जल  pressure and  currents  .
Spiders ( order  araneae  )  हैं  air-breathing arthropods that have  आठ  legs  और  chelicerae with fangs that  इंजेक्ट  venom .
They are the  largest   अनुक्रम  of arachnids and  रैंक  seventh in  कुल  species diversity  among   सब  other groups  of   जीवों  .
Spiders are  मिला   विश्वव्यापी  on  प्रत्येक   महाद्वीप  except for Antarctica , and  have  become  स्थापित  in nearly every  आवास   साथ  the exception of  एयर  and sea colonization .
as  of 2008  ,  at  तनिक  43,678 spider species ,  और  109  परिवारों  have  महरूम  recorded by taxonomists ;  however   ,   वहीँ  has been confusion within  the  scientific community as to  कैसा   सब  these families should be classified , as  evidenced  by the over  20   अलग   classifications  that have been proposed  चूंकि   1900  .
Anatomically  ,   मकड़ियों  differ  इससे  other arthropods in that the usual body  खण्ड   हैं  fused into two tagmata  ,  the  cephalothorax   और   उदर  ,  और  joined by  a  small , cylindrical pedicel  .
Unlike insects  ,  spiders do  नहीं  have antennae .
in   सब  except  the  most  आदिम   समूह  ,  the   mesothelae   ,  spiders have  the  most  centralized   बेचैन  systems of  सब  arthropods ,  as   सब  their  ganglia  are  fused  into one mass  in  the cephalothorax  .
Unlike  सबसे  arthropods , spiders have no extensor muscles  in  their limbs  और   बजाय  extend them  by   हाइड्रोलिक  pressure  .
उनके  abdomens bear appendages that have  महरूम   परिवर्धित   into   spinnerets   कि   extrude  silk  इससे  up to  छह   प्रकार  of silk glands within their  उदर   .
Spider  webs   vary   widely   in   आकार  , shape and  the  amount of sticky thread used .
It now appears  कि  the  सर्पिल   orb  web may be one of the  earliest  forms  ,  and spiders that produce tangled  cobwebs  are more abundant  और  diverse than  orb-web  spiders  .
spider-like  arachnids with  silk-producing  spigots appeared in the Devonian period  परिचय  ,  लकिन  these animals  जाहिर  lacked spinnerets .
True spiders  have  been found in  carboniferous  rocks  इससे  , and are  बहुत   समान   to  the  सबसे   आदिम  surviving  अनुक्रम  , the  mesothelae  .
the  main groups of modern spiders , Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae , first  appeared  in the  triassic  period ,  पहले  .
a  herbivorous species , Bagheera kiplingi , was  वर्णित   in   2008  , but  सब  other known species  हैं   परभक्षी  ,  ज़्यादातर   preying   on  insects and on other  मकड़ियों  , although a  few  large  प्रजाति  also take birds and lizards .
Spiders use a  चौड़ी  range  of   रणनीति  to capture prey  :   trapping  it in sticky webs , lassoing it with sticky bolas , mimicking the prey to avoid detection ,  or  running it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations , but  the  active hunters have acute vision ,  और  hunters of the genus Portia show  लक्षण  of  प्रज्ञा  in their choice  of  tactics and ability  to   develop  new  ones   .
Spiders '  गुस्ताखी  are too narrow  to  take solids ,  और   वे   liquidize   उनके  food by flooding it with digestive enzymes and grinding  it  with  the   bases  of their pedipalps  ,  as they do not have  सच्चा  jaws .
Male  मकड़ियों  identify themselves by a variety  of  complex  प्रेमालाप  rituals to  avoid  being eaten by  the  females  .
Males of  सबसे   प्रजाति  survive a  few   matings  , limited mainly by their short life  spans   .
Females weave silk egg-cases  ,  each of which may  contain   सैंकड़ों   of  eggs .
Females of many  प्रजाति  care for  उनके   यंग  , for  उदाहरण  by  carrying   उन्हें  around or by sharing food  साथ  them .
A  अल्पसंख्यक  of  प्रजाति  are  सोशल  , building communal webs that may house  anywhere  from a few to 50,000 individuals .
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration ,  as  in  the  widow  मकड़ियों   ,  to co-operative  शिकार  and  food-sharing  .
Although most spiders live  लिये  at most two  सालो  , tarantulas  और  other mygalomorph spiders can  सजीव  up to  25  years in captivity .
While  the  venom of a  few   प्रजाति  is dangerous  to   इंसानो  ,  वैज्ञानिकों   हैं   अभी  researching  the  use of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides  .
मकड़ी  silk  provides  a combination  of  lightness  ,   शक्ति  and elasticity  कि  is  श्रेष्ठ  to  कि  of synthetic materials ,  और   मकड़ी  silk  जीनों  have been  inserted  into mammals and plants  to  see if these can be used as  रेशा  factories .
as   a  result of their wide range  of  behaviors , spiders have become common  प्रतीकों  in  आर्ट   और  mythology  symbolizing  various combinations  of   सब्र  , cruelty and  रचनात्मक  powers  .
धूसर  's  anatomy  is  an  American  टेलीविज़न  medical drama that premiered on the American Broadcasting Company (  एबीसी   )  ,  as  a  mid-season  replacement on March 27  ,   2005   .
The  श्रेणी   रै   aired  nine seasons , and focuses  on  the fictional lives of surgical interns and residents as  वे   धीरे  evolve into  seasoned  doctors  ,   जबकि  trying to maintain personal lives .
The show 's premise  originated  with Shonda  rhimes  ,  जो   serves   as  an  कार्यपालिका  producer , along with Betsy Beers , Mark  गॉर्डन  , Krista  vernoff   ,  Rob Corn  ,  Mark Wilding , and  allan  Heinberg  .
The series  थी   निर्मित  to  be  racially diverse ,  utilizing  a  color-blind  casting technique  .
It is primarily filmed  in  Los Angeles  ,  California .
the  series  '   समर्थक  is Dr. Meredith Grey ( Ellen  pompeo  )  ,   जो  originally is accepted  into  the  रेसिडेंसी  program at  the   fictional   सिएटल  Grace Hospital  .
Meredith is assigned to  कार्य   अंतर्गत  Dr. Miranda  बेली  ( Chandra Wilson ) ,  साथ   साथ  Dr. Cristina  यांग  (  सैंड्रा  Oh  )  , Dr. George O'Malley (  T.  R.  नाईट  ) , Dr.  izzie  Stevens ( Katherine  heigl  ) ,  और  Dr. Alex Karev (  जस्टिन   कक्षों  ) .
Following  o'malley  's death  और   स्टीवंस  ' departure , the hospital 's merger with  रहमत  West brings in  dr.  Jackson  एवेरी  ( Jesse Williams ) and  dr.  April Kepner ( Sarah Drew )  ,   in  the sixth season  .
The surgical wing is  primarily  supervised by  dr.  Richard Webber ( James  pickens  , Jr. )  ,  who is eventually replaced by Dr. Derek Shepherd  (  Patrick Dempsey ) , and later  dr.  Owen  हंट  ( Kevin McKidd )  .
Dr. Preston Burke (  यशायाह  Washington ) departs at  the  conclusion of the  तीसरा  season , and is  replaced  by Dr. Erica  hahn  ( Brooke Smith ) ,  जो  leaves the  दिखाएँ  during the fifth season  ,  and later Dr.  टेडी  Altman ( Kim Raver  )  ,  जो  departs at the end  of   the  eighth season .
introduced   in   the  second season is Dr. Addison  मोंटगोमरी   (  Kate Walsh ) ,  जो   पत्ते   the  show at  the   समाप्त  of  the   तीसरा   ऋतु  , in order to launch her  अपना   spin-off  medical  नाटक  Private Practice  .
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez  )   और  Dr. Mark Sloan ( Eric Dane ) also enter the show in the second season ,  जबकि   the  latter dies  in  the premiere of  the  ninth season  .
मेरेडिथ   's  half-sister ,  dr.   lexie  Grey  (  Chyler  leigh   )   ,   appears  from season three  और  dies at the end  of  season  आठ   .
dr.  Arizona Robbins ( Jessica Capshaw  )   is  given series regular status at  the  beginning of the  छठे   ऋतु  .
Grey 's Anatomy is  the  highest-rated  नाटक  in  the   कुंजी  18–49 demographic .
previously   among  the overall  top-ten  rated shows in the United States , Grey 's Anatomy has been well received by critics  .
Considered an impact on  संस्कृति  ,  the   श्रेणी  has received numerous awards , and  रै   भी  been  शामिल  in various critics '  शीर्ष  ten lists  .
The  दिखाएँ  has  उत्पादित  several specials , as  खूब   as  distributed  सब  seasons  to  DVD , and released a collection of merchandise .
In  2012  , Grey  's  Anatomy  थी  named the fifth-highest revenue earning show , in terms  of   विज्ञापन  per half-hour .
on  May 11  ,  2012 , the series was  नवीनीकृत  for a ninth  ऋतु  , which premiered on September 27 ,  2012   .
Schizophrenia ( or )  is   a  mental disorder characterized by a  विश्लेषण   of  thought processes and by a deficit of typical emotional responses .
आम  symptoms include auditory hallucinations , paranoid or bizarre  delusions  , or disorganized  वाक  and thinking , and it is accompanied  by  significant  सोशल  or occupational dysfunction .
The onset of  लक्षण  typically occurs  in  young adulthood , with a global lifetime prevalence of  परिचय  0.3–0.7 % .
Diagnosis is  आधारित  on  observed   बर्ताव   और  the  रोगी   's  reported experiences  .
Genetics  ,  early environment  ,  neurobiology , and psychological and  सोशल  processes  appear  to  be  important  contributory   कारकों   ;   कुछ  recreational  और   नुस्खा   दवाएँ   appear  to cause or worsen  लक्षण  .
Current research  is   केन्द्रित  on  the  role of neurobiology , although  no   सिंगल  isolated organic  कारण   रै  been  मिला  .
the   अनेक  possible combinations of symptoms have  triggered  debate  परिचय  whether the  निदान  represents  a   सिंगल  disorder  or  a number of discrete syndromes  .
despite   the  etymology of the term from the Greek  जड़ें  skhizein  (  σχίζειν , `` to split ''  )  and phrēn , phren- (  φρήν  ,  φρεν-  ; `` mind '' ) , schizophrenia  करता  not  imply   a   ``   विभाजित  personality '' , or `` multiple  व्यक्तित्व  disorder ''  (  which is known these days as  dissociative  identity  विकार  ) —a condition with which it is often confused  in  public  बोध  .
बल्कि  , the term means a  ``  splitting of  दिमागी  functions  ''  , because  of  the symptomatic presentation  of  the illness .
the  mainstay  of  treatment  is  antipsychotic medication , which  primarily   दबा  dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin  )  receptor activity .
Psychotherapy  और  vocational and  सोशल  rehabilitation  हैं  also important in treatment .
In more serious  cases—where  there is risk to self and others— involuntary hospitalization may  be  necessary  ,  although  हॉस्पिटल  stays are  अभी   shorter  and less frequent  than  they  एकबार  were .
the  disorder  is  thought  मुख्यतः  to affect  संज्ञान  , but it  भी   प्रायः   contributes  to chronic problems with behavior  और   जज्बात  .
People with schizophrenia  हैं  likely  to  have additional (  comorbid  ) conditions , including major depression and anxiety disorders ;  the  lifetime  occurrence   of   पदार्थ  use disorder is  लगभग  50 % .
Social  समस्याएं  ,  ऐसे  as  long-term   बेरोजगारी  ,  गरीबी  ,  और  homelessness are common .
The  औसत   जीवन   प्रत्याशा   of  people  साथ  the disorder  is  12  to  15 years less than those without  ,  the result of increased physical health  समस्याएं  and  a  higher  आत्महत्या   रेट  (  परिचय   5  % ) .
Paul Leslie  snider   (   अप्रैल  15 , 1951–August 14 , 1980 )  थी  the estranged  husband  and manager of Playboy model Dorothy Stratten , whom he murdered before killing  खुद  the same day .
The Epic  of  Gilgamesh , an epic  कविता  from  मेसोपोटामिया  , is amongst the earliest surviving  works  of literature .
the  literary history of Gilgamesh begins with  पाँच  independent  sumerian  poems about  'bilgamesh  ' ( Sumerian  लिये  Gilgamesh ) , king of Uruk  .
Four of these were used as source material for a combined  एपिक  in  अक्कादी   .
This first combined epic , known as  the   ``  Old  babylonian  ''  संस्करण  ,  तिथियाँ  to the  18th   सदी  BC and is  titled   बाद   इसके  incipit  ,  Shūtur eli sharrī (  ``   surpassing   सब  Other Kings ''  )  .
Only a few fragments of it have survived .
the   बाद  `` Standard  babylonian  ''  संस्करण  dates from the 13th  to  the 10th centuries BC  और  bears the incipit Sha  naqba   īmuru  ( `` He  जो   देखी  the  गहन  ''  )  .
Fragments  of  approximately two thirds of this  longer  ,  twelve-tablet  version have been recovered  .
कुछ   of   the   बेहतरीन   नक़ल  were  खोजा   in   the  library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian  किंग  Ashurbanipal .
The  स्टोरी  centers on  a  friendship between Gilgamesh and Enkidu .
enkidu  is  a  wild man  निर्मित  by the  देवताओं   as  Gilgamesh 's equal to distract  उसे  from oppressing the  लोगों  of Uruk .
Together , they journey  to  the  देवदार   पहाड़  to defeat Humbaba , its  monstrous  guardian .
बाद  they kill the Bull of Heaven  ,  which the  देवी   इश्तार  sends to punish Gilgamesh  लिये  spurning  उसके   अग्रिम  .
As a  दंड  for these actions  ,  the gods sentence  enkidu  to  मौत  .
The  दूसरी  half  of  the epic focuses  on  Gilgamesh  's   तकलीफ  at Enkidu 's death  ,   और  his quest  लिये   अमरत्व  .
In order to learn  the  secret of eternal life  ,   gilgamesh   undertakes  a long  और  perilous  यात्रा  .
he  learns  कि   ``   the   जीवन  that you  हैं   seeking  you will never find .
When the gods created man they allotted to  उसे  death ,  लकिन  life they retained in their  अपना  keeping . ''
This  उद्धरण  was originally attributed to Siduri in  the   बूढ़ा  Babylonian version of the epic ,  और  then  attributed  to the  अमर  flood  नायिका   utnapishtim  in the  अक्कादी  version of the  एपिक  .
nevertheless  ,  gilgamesh  's  कीर्ति  lived on after  उसके  death ,  क्युकी  of  उसके   ग्रेट   भवन   प्रोजेक्ट  , and his account of  कया  Utnapishtim told  उसे  happened during the flood  .
The story has  महरूम  translated into  अनेक  different languages , and Gilgamesh has since become  adapted   in  works of popular fiction .
a  eukaryote  (  or  )  is an  सजीव  whose cells contain complex  structures  enclosed within membranes .
Eukaryotes may more  formally   be  referred to as  the  taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota .
The defining membrane-bound  ढांचा   कि   सेट  eukaryotic cells apart  इससे  prokaryotic  कोशिकाएं  is the nucleus , or nuclear  लिफाफा   ,  within which the genetic  सामग्री  is carried .
the  presence  of   a  nucleus gives eukaryotes  उनके  name , which comes from the Greek  (  eu , `` good '' )  और  (  karyon  , `` nut '' or  ``  kernel  ''  ) .
Most  eukaryotic  cells  भी   contain  other membrane-bound organelles such  as  mitochondria ,  chloroplasts  and the Golgi apparatus  .
All large complex  जीवों  are eukaryotes  ,   सहित   पशु  ,  पौधे  and fungi .
the   समूह  also includes many  एककोशिकीय   जीवों  .
Cell  प्रभाग   in  eukaryotes  is  different from that in organisms without a  केंद्रक   (  Prokaryote ) .
It  involves  separating the duplicated chromosomes ,  through  movements directed by microtubules .
वहीँ  are two types of division  प्रक्रियाओं   .
in  mitosis , one cell divides  to  produce two genetically  एकसमान  cells .
In  meiosis  , which  is  required  in  sexual reproduction  ,  one diploid cell  (  having two  उदाहरण   of  each  chromosome  ,  एक   इससे   प्रत्येक  parent ) undergoes recombination  of  each pair of parental chromosomes , and then  दो   चरण  of cell division , resulting  in  four haploid cells  (  gametes  )  .
Each gamete has just one complement  of  chromosomes , each  a   अद्वितीय  mix of the  सम्बन्धित  pair of  parental  chromosomes  .
eukaryota   appears  to be monophyletic , and so makes  up  one of  the  three domains  of  life .
the   दो  other domains , Bacteria and Archaea ,  हैं  prokaryotes and have  none   of   the  above  सुविधाएँ  .
Eukaryotes  represent  a tiny minority of all living  बाते  ; even in a human body there  हैं  10  टाइम्स  more microbes than human cells .
However , due to their much  larger  size their collective  विश्वव्यापी   बायोमास  is estimated  at  about equal  to   कि  of  prokaryotes  .
They are considered  to   have   पहला   विकसित  approximately 1.6–2.1  अरब  years ago .
The  उपयोग   of   अंतरजाल   सेवाएं  or software with  अंतरजाल  access to defraud victims or  to  otherwise take advantage  of  them , for example  by  stealing personal  सूचना  , which can even lead to identity  चोरी  .
a  very common  रूप  of Internet fraud  is  the  वितरण  of rogue security  तन्त्र  .
Internet  सेवाएं  can  be   प्रयुक्त  to present  बेईमान   solicitations  to  prospective  victims , to conduct  बेईमान  transactions , or to  संचारण   the   proceeds  of fraud to financial institutions or to others connected with the scheme  .
Internet fraud can  occur  in chat rooms ,  ईमेल  ,  संदेश   फलक   ,  or on websites  .
The International Security Assistance  फ़ोर्स   (  ISAF ) is  a  NATO -led security mission in  अफगानिस्तान   कि  was  स्थापित  by  the  United Nations Security Council in  दिसम्बर   2001  by Resolution 1386  ,   as  envisaged by  the  Bonn Agreement .
Its main purpose is to  ट्रैन  the  अफगान  National Security Forces ( ANSF ) and assist  अफगानिस्तान   in  rebuilding key government institutions but is  भी  engaged in the 2001-present war with insurgent  समूह   .
ISAF  थी  initially charged with  securing   काबुल  and surrounding  क्षेत्रों   इससे  the Taliban , al Qaeda and  factional   warlords  , so  as  to allow  लिये  the  स्थापना  of  the  Afghan Transitional Administration headed  by  Hamid Karzai .
in  October 2003  ,  the UN Security Council  प्राधिकृत   the  expansion of the ISAF  मिशन  throughout Afghanistan  ,  and ISAF  subsequently  expanded the  मिशन  in  चार  main  चरण  over the  पूरे  of  the   देश  .
From  2006  to 2011  ,  ISAF had been  शामिल  in increasingly more intensive combat  परिचालन   in   दक्षिणी  and  पूर्वी   अफगानिस्तान   .
troop  contributors include from the United States ,  संयुक्त  Kingdom , NATO member states and a  क्रमांक  of other  देशों   .
the   तीव्रता  of the combat faced  by  contributing nations  varies   greatly  , with the United States , United Kingdom  ,   और  Canada sustaining the majority of  हताहत   in  intensive combat operations , with other  योगदानकर्ता  sustaining significantly less  .
As of early 2010 , there  यहूद  at least 700 military bases inside  अफगानिस्तान   लकिन  more were  अपेक्षित   to  be built in the coming years  .
परिचय  400 of these were used by American‐led NATO  शक्तियां  and  300  by  ansf  .
कोका  ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( INN ) is  a  crystalline  tropane   एल्कलॉएड  that is obtained  इससे   the  leaves of the  कोका  plant .
The  नाम   आता   इससे   ``  coca ''  और   the   एल्कलॉएड  suffix -ine , forming cocaine  .
It is a stimulant  ,  an  भूख   suppressant  , and a topical  anesthetic  .
biologically   ,  cocaine  अधिनियमों  as  a  serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor , also known as a  ट्रिपल  reuptake  inhibitor  (  ट्राई  ) .
it  is addictive  क्युकी   of  its effect  on  the  mesolimbic  reward  pathway  .
Unlike most molecules , cocaine  रै  pockets with both  ऊँची  hydrophilic and lipophilic efficiency  ,  violating the  नियम  of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance  .
This  कल्याणकारी  it to cross the blood–brain barrier far better than other psychoactive chemicals and may  भी  induce blood-brain barrier breakdown .
It is illegal  to   possess  , produce , or  वितरित  cocaine for non-medicinal and  non-government-sanctioned   उद्देश्य  in  लगभग  every  देश  .
पूरे  beef tri-tip rump  ,  roasted medium  विरल
the   tri-tip   is   a  cut of beef from the  नीचे  sirloin  primal  cut .
It is a small  triangular  muscle  ,  usually 1.5 to  2.5  lbs . ( 675 to 1,150g ) per side  of  beef .
The scientific name of  इस  muscle is tensor fasciae latae ,  inserted  in the fascia lata , the connective tissue covering the  quadriceps  femoris , also called quadriceps extensor ,  a   समूह  of four muscles which in  फेरे  insert in the  पटेला  , or  घुटना   कैप  of  the   एनिमल   .
Willmar  is  a city in ,  और  the  काउंटी  seat  of   ,  Kandiyohi  काउंटी  , Minnesota , United States .
The population was 19,610 at  the  2010 census .
Willmar  रै  been assigned ZIP code  56201   by  the United States Postal Service .
U.S . Routes 12 and  71  and Minnesota State  राजमार्गों  23  और   40  are four of the main  रूट  in the  नगर  .
The  स्पीकर  of  the   संयुक्त  States House of  प्रतिनिधि   (  or  स्पीकर  of the House ) is the presiding officer of  the  chamber .
The office was  स्थापित  in 1789  by  Article  i   ,   खण्ड  2 of the United States Constitution ,  जिससे  states in part ,  ``  The House of  प्रतिनिधि   shall   chuse  their Speaker ... ''
The  वर्तमान  Speaker  is  John  boehner   ,  a Republican  जो   represents   ओहियो   's   8th   congressional   ज़िला   .
the  Constitution does  नहीं  require that  the  Speaker  be  a  सदस्य   of  Congress  ,  but no non-member has ever been  निर्वाचित  to the  दफ्तर   .
the  Speaker  is  second in  the  United  राज्य  presidential line of succession , after the  वाइस  President  और  ahead of the President pro tempore of the U.S. Senate .
Unlike some  वेस्टमिंस्टर   प्रणाली  parliaments , in which  the   दफ्तर  of  स्पीकर  is considered non-partisan , in  the   संयुक्त  States the Speaker of the House is  a  leadership position and the office-holder actively works to  नियत  the majority party 's  विधान  agenda .
the  Speaker  प्रायः   करता   नहीं  personally preside over  debates   ,   बजाय   delegating  the  ड्यूटी   to  members of  the  House from the  बहुमत  party .
Aside from  कर्तव्य  relating to heading the  हाउस   और  the majority  राजनैतिक  party , the Speaker  भी  performs administrative and procedural functions , and  represents  his  or  her  congressional   ज़िला   .
a   सायकिल   फ़्रेम  is  the   प्रमुख  component  of   a  bicycle ,  on  to  जिससे   पहियों  and  अन्य  components are fitted .
The modern and most common frame design  लिये  an upright bicycle is  आधारित   on  the safety bicycle ,  और   consists  of two triangles  ,  a  प्रमुख   त्रिभुज  and a paired rear  त्रिभुज  .
इस  is  ज्ञात  as the diamond  फ़्रेम  .
फ्रेम्स  are required  to  be strong , stiff and light  ,  which they  do   by  combining different materials and shapes .
`` Simple gravity pendulum '' model assumes no friction or air resistance .
an  exemplar animation of a  लोलक  showing the velocity  और  acceleration vectors
A  लोलक   is  a  वज़न   निलंबित  from  a  so that it  can  swing  freely  .
When  a  pendulum is displaced sideways  इससे  its resting equilibrium position  ,  it is  विषय  to a  restoring  force due to gravity that  होगा  accelerate it back toward  the   संतुलन  position .
When released  ,   the   restoring   फ़ोर्स  combined with the pendulum  's  mass causes it  to  oscillate  परिचय  the  संतुलन   स्थिति  , swinging back and  forth  .
The time for one complete cycle ,  a  left  झूले  and a right swing  ,  is called  the  period .
a  pendulum  swings   साथ   a  specific period which depends (  मुख्यतः  ) on its length  .
From its  डिस्कवरी  around 1602 by Galileo Galilei  the  regular motion of pendulums  थी  used for timekeeping , and was  the  world 's most accurate  timekeeping   प्रौद्योगिकी  until the  1930s   .
pendulums  are  प्रयुक्त  to regulate pendulum  घड़ियाँ  , and are used in  वैज्ञानिक  instruments  ऐसे   as  accelerometers  और  seismometers .
Historically  वे   यहूद  used as  gravimeters  to  माप  the acceleration  of  gravity in geophysical surveys , and even  as  a standard  of  length .
The word 'pendulum '  is  new Latin , from the  लैटिन  pendulus  ,  meaning 'hanging  '   .
the  simple  गम्भीरता  pendulum is an idealized  गणितीय  model  of  a pendulum .
इस  is  a  weight (  or  bob )  on  the end  of   a  massless cord  निलंबित  from a , without friction .
जब   दिए  an initial push , it will swing  वापस   और  forth  at   a   निरंतर  amplitude .
Real pendulums  हैं   विषय  to friction and air drag ,  so  the amplitude of  उनके   swings  declines .
The First Battle of  सांड   चलाएं   ,  also  ज्ञात  as First Manassas (  the  name  प्रयुक्त  by Confederate  शक्तियां  ) ,  थी  fought on July  21   ,  1861 , in  प्रिंस  William County ,  वर्जिनिया   ,  near the city of  manassas  .
It was  the  first  प्रमुख  land  बैटल   of  the American Civil War  .
बस  months  बाद  the start of  the  war  at  Fort Sumter ,  the  Northern public clamored  लिये   a  march against  the  Confederate  पूंजी  of  रिचमंड   ,  Virginia , which they expected to bring an early end to the rebellion  .
Yielding to  राजनैतिक   दबाव  , Brig .  gen.   irvin  McDowell  led  his  unseasoned   संघ  Army  आरपार  Bull Run  विरूद्ध  the equally inexperienced Confederate Army  of  Brig  .  Gen. P. G.  T.  Beauregard camped  निकट  Manassas Junction .
mcdowell   's   महत्वाकांक्षी   योजना   लिये  a surprise  पार्श्व  attack on the  confederate  left  थी  poorly executed by his officers  और   मेन  ;  nevertheless  , the Confederates , who had  महरूम   नियोजन   to   आक्रमण  the  संघ   बाएँ  flank , found  themselves  at  an  initial  disadvantage   .
Confederate reinforcements under  ब्रिगेडियर  .  gen.  Joseph E. Johnston arrived from  the   shenandoah  Valley by railroad and the course  of  the battle quickly  बदला  .
A brigade  of  Virginians under a relatively unknown  कर्नल  from the Virginia Military  संस्थान  , Thomas J.  जैक्सन   ,  stood their  मैदान   और  Jackson  प्राप्त   उसके  famous nickname  ,  ``  stonewall  Jackson  ''   .
The Confederates then launched a strong  counterattack  , and as the  संघ  troops  began   withdrawing  under  आग  , many panicked and it turned into a rout as McDowell 's men frantically ran without order in  the   दिशा   of   वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
Both armies were sobered by  the   fierce  fighting  और   अनेक  casualties  ,  and realized the  युद्ध   थी  going to be much  longer  and bloodier  than  either had  anticipated  .
Thunderstorm near Garajau  ,   madeira
Weather is the  राज्य   of  the atmosphere , to the degree that it  is  hot  or  cold  ,  wet or dry , calm or stormy , clear  or   cloudy   .
Most  मौसम  phenomena occur in the troposphere , just below the stratosphere  .
मौसम  generally  refers  to day-to-day  तापमान  and precipitation activity ,  whereas  climate is the term for  the  average atmospheric conditions over longer periods of time .
When  प्रयुक्त  without  योग्यता  , ``  मौसम  '' is understood to be the weather of  धरती   .
Weather is driven  by   एयर  pressure ( temperature and  नमी  ) differences between one place and another .
These pressure  और  temperature differences can  occur  due to the sun angle at  कोई  particular spot  ,  which varies  by  latitude from the tropics .
The  दमदार  temperature contrast  between  polar  और  tropical air gives rise to the jet stream .
Weather systems in the  mid-latitudes  , such as extratropical cyclones , are  caused   by  instabilities of the jet stream  प्रवाह  .
क्युकी  the  धरती  's axis  is   tilted  relative to its orbital  प्लेन  ,  धूप   is  incident at different angles at different times  of   the   साल  .
On Earth 's  सतह  , temperatures usually  दायरा   ±40   °c  ( −40  °f  to 100  °f  )  annually  .
Over thousands of years , changes  in  Earth 's  कक्षा  affect the  राशि  and distribution of solar energy received by  the  Earth and influence  long-term  climate and global climate change .
Surface temperature  मतभेद  in turn cause pressure  मतभेद  .
उच्चतर   altitudes   हैं  cooler than lower  altitudes  due  to  differences in compressional heating  .
Weather forecasting is the  अनुप्रयोग  of science and technology to predict  the  state of  the   माहौल  for  a  future  समय   और   a  given location .
The  माहौल   is   a   chaotic  system  ,  so small changes to one part of  the  system can grow to  have  large effects  on  the system as a whole .
Human attempts to control  the   मौसम  have occurred throughout human  इतिहास  , and there  is  evidence that human activity  ऐसे  as agriculture  और   उद्योग  has  inadvertently   परिवर्धित  weather patterns .
अध्ययन  how  the  weather works on other planets has been helpful in understanding  कैसा  weather works on Earth .
A famous landmark in the Solar  प्रणाली  , Jupiter 's  ग्रेट  Red Spot , is  an  anticyclonic  तूफ़ान  known to have existed  लिये  at least 300 years .
However  ,  weather is  नहीं   सीमित  to planetary bodies  .
a  star 's  किरीट   is   constantly  being lost to  स्पेस  , creating what is essentially a very thin  माहौल  throughout the Solar System .
The movement of mass ejected  इससे  the Sun is known  as   the  solar wind .
Katy Perry is  an  American singer-songwriter from Santa Barbara ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
She  हस्ताक्षरित  with Capitol Records .
Perry has released three  स्टुडियो   एल्बम   ,  including  उसके  debut  ईसाई   प्रयत्न  Katy Hudson , One  of   the  Boys , and Teenage Dream  .
Perry 's  मुख्यधारा   करियर  was kicked  बंद  with the massive chart  कामयाबी  of her debut single `` I Kissed a Girl `` .
During  उसके  career , Perry has been nominated for numerous major music awards  ,  primarily for Teenage Dream and  एक   of  the Boys  .
The following is  a  list of  sovereign  states  और  territories where English is an  आधिकारिक  language or language  of  government  .
In 2012  ,   वहीँ  were 88  राज्य  in total ( 60  sovereign   राज्य  and 28 non-sovereign states ) .
in  many countries English  is   the   प्रबल  language  ,  but does  नहीं  have official  औकात  .
In Australia , English  is  spoken by the vast majority  of   the  population and is the only language used in government institutions  ,  but Australia does not  have  an  आधिकारिक  language .
The case is the  वही   in  the  संयुक्त  Kingdom and the United States , though many states and regions  भीतर  the  u.S.  do have English as an  आधिकारिक  language .
English is the dominant language  of   नई  Zealand  और  an official language of  कनाडा  ( along  साथ  French  )  , India ( along with  हिंदी  and several other languages ) , Ireland ( along with Irish ) ,  और  the  फिलीपीन  ( along with Tagalog ) .
English  is  the sole  आधिकारिक  language of the Commonwealth of Nations and the Commonwealth Games .
English is  एक  of  the   आधिकारिक   भाषाएं   of   the  United Nations ,  the   यूरोपीय   संघ  and the International Olympic  कमेटी  .
Many of these  देशों  are  वर्तमान  or former colonies or  dependencies  of the United  किंगडम  ( see  भी  British Empire  )  , or  of  the United States ,  itself   a  former  उपनिवेश   of   the  UK  .
Notable exceptions include Rwanda ,  जिससे  was a former Belgian colony and Eritrea , which was an Italian colony where the British Empire spanned  इसके  control  तभी  in World War II and shortly  बाद  (  1941-1952  )  .
India 's linguistic picture  is   जटिल   .
According to the Constitution  of   इण्डिया  , ``  हिंदी  in  the   देवनागरी  script  ''   is  the official language of  the   संघ   ;  and  अंग्रेज़ी  the 'subsidiary official language ' ; however , English is mandated for  the  authoritative texts of all federal laws and  परम्   अदालत  decisions and (  साथ  with Hindi )  is  one of  the  two languages of the Indian Parliament .
अंग्रेज़ी   is  used almost  exclusively   लिये   उच्चतर  education  ,  business and  विज्ञान  .
पाठ्यक्रम  in majority of the schools are taught  exclusively  in English .
English  is  extensively used  लिये  administrative purposes  in  India .
India is the  second-largest  English-speaking  देश  in the world  by  number of  अध्यक्षों  ,  बाद  the United States .
As such ,  अनेक  consider English to be the de  facto  official  भाषा  of  इण्डिया  .
See Official languages  of   इण्डिया   .
the   भाषाई   मेकअप  of Pakistan is  similarly  complex  .
While the national  भाषा  is Urdu  ,   अंग्रेज़ी  is an  आधिकारिक   भाषा  and  प्रयुक्त  in business  ,  government and  विधि   .
अंग्रेज़ी  is  a  compulsory language in  स्कूलों  .
All school courses are  सिखाया  in English .
पाकिस्तानी  is  the   9th  largest English-speaking country in the world by population .
Southern Cone ( , )  is   a  geographic region composed  of  the southernmost  क्षेत्रों  of  दक्षिण  America , south  of   the   tropic   of   मकर   .
Although  geographically  this includes Southern and part  of  Southeast ( São Paulo  )  of Brazil ,  in  terms  of   राजनैतिक  geography  the  Southern  कोन  has traditionally comprised Argentina ,  चिली   ,  Paraguay , and Uruguay .
in  the narrowest  भाव   ,  it only covers Argentina ,  चिली  and  उरुग्वे   ,  bounded on  the  north by the states of Brazil , Paraguay  ,  Bolivia and Peru ,  on  the west by the  प्रशांत   समंदर  , and  दक्षिण  to the junction between  the   प्रशांत  and Atlantic Oceans  ,  which it  is  the closest  महाद्वीपीय  area of Antarctica ( 1000 km )  .
High life  प्रत्याशा   ,  the  उच्चतम  Human  विकास  Index of  लैटिन  America ,  ऊँची  Standard of  जीना   ,   significant   भागीदारी   in   the  global markets  और  the emerging economy  of  its members  मेक  the Southern Cone  the  most  prosperous   macro-region  in  दक्षिण  America .
For multi-event athletic competitions see Track and Field Competitions , section ``  बैठक  ''  .
बैठक  are sometimes  आयोजित   around  conference tables .
In a meeting , two  or  more people come  साथ  to discuss  एक   or   अधिक  topics , often  in   a  formal  सेटिंग  .
An  आधिकारिक   खेल  in baseball ,  भी  sometimes  पुकारा   a  regulation  खेल   ,   is   a   खेल   कि  has  progressed   परे  the point at which it  can   be   माना   पूरा  if necessary  .
This is approximately the halfway point of  the  game .
In  the  case of inclement weather , any  खेल  which has reached this  पाइंट   may  be  रोका   और  shortened as needed ,  साथ  the result being  फाइनल  ,  और  all records and statistics counted .
A game  जिससे  has not  पहुँचे   इस   पाइंट  before  होने  stopped is  either  considered  a   निलंबित  game  (  to be continued at a later  तिथि   इससे  the point of stoppage ) , or  is   बस   रद्द  and replayed  इससे  the start .
(  This  depends   on  the rules of each individual league . )
in  either  मामला   ,   no  statistics are  गिने   जबतक  the game becomes official .
चूंकि   सबसे  professional baseball games  हैं  nine innings long , the fifth  inning  is  प्रयुक्त  as the threshold for an official  खेल   .
if  the  visiting  team  is  leading  ,   or  the game is tied  ,  the  समाप्त  of the fifth inning marks  इस  point  .
if  the home team  (  which bats last  )  is  already   ahead  in the  स्कोर   ,  and  theoretically   होता  not need  इसके  half of  the   पांचवां   inning  ,  तब  41⁄2  पारी  ( i.e.  ,  the middle of  the  fifth  )  is considered  an  official game .
the   खेल   is   भी   माना   आधिकारिक   if   the   घर   टोली  scores to take the  सीसे  in  the  bottom of the  पांचवां  inning ,  चूंकि  the game would end immediately if  the   वही   बात  happened  in  the ninth .
in   nearly  all  मामले  , the  ``   आधिकारिक  game  ''  status is  प्रयुक्त  to  determine   whether  a rain check will be honored for  प्रशंसक  holding tickets .
if  a  खेल  is  प्रारंभ   लकिन  does  नहीं  reach the point of becoming official  ,   प्रशंसक  are entitled to a  नई  ticket for  the  make-up  खेल  or (  in  most cases  )   कोई  other  उपलब्धियाँ  game of  उनके  choice .
if  a  खेल  is halted  बाद  it becomes official  ,  the  खेल  is simply shortened and  no  rain check is given  .
The `` official  खेल  '' statistic  प्राप्त   कुछ  attention during  the  1995  ऋतु  , when Cal  ripken  ,  jr.  was  approaching  the  रिकार्ड   लिये  consecutive games  निभाई  , previously held by Lou Gehrig .
विशाल  numbers were hung on the side of the B  &  O  गोदाम  at  oriole  Park at Camden Yards to  दिखाएँ  the number of  खेल  in Ripken 's streak  .
प्रत्येक  day , a  नई   क्रमांक  was unfurled during  the  fifth  inning   बाद   प्रत्येक  game had  become  official (  चूंकि  the statistic  होता   नहीं  have counted if the game  था  been  रोका  before  कि  point )  .
A similar  अभ्यास   रै  been  प्रयुक्त   to  count  bas  toward the  demolition  of  अनेक  stadiums ( including Veterans  स्टेडियम   in  Philadelphia  in  2003 ,  बुच   मेमोरियल  Stadium in St. Louis in 2005  ,  and the original Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium in New York City in  2008   )  ; as each game  became   आधिकारिक  ,  the  team  होता   unveil  a new ( lower ) number showing the  क्रमांक   of  games left to be played in  the  stadium  .
a   टेलीफोन  number  or  phone  क्रमांक  is a sequence  of  digits used  to  call  इससे  one telephone  लकीर  to  another  in  a  public switched telephone network .
When  टेलीफोन  numbers were invented , they  यहूद   छोटी   —  as few as one , two or  तीन  digits  —  and were given orally to  a  switchboard  ऑपरेटर   .
As phone systems  have  grown and  interconnected   to  encompass the world , telephone numbers  have  become  longer  .
In addition to  telephones  , they now access other devices , such  as   कंप्यूटर  and fax machines .
the  number contains the  सूचना  necessary to identify uniquely the  intended  endpoint for the telephone call  .
प्रत्येक  such endpoint must have a unique number within  the  public  switched  telephone network  .
सबसे   देशों  use  फिक्स्ड  length  संख्याएँ  (  लिये  normal  लाइनों  at least ) and  इसलिए  the  क्रमांक  of endpoints determines the necessary length of the  टेलीफोन  number .
It  is  also possible for each subscriber to have a  नियत   of  shorter numbers  लिये  the endpoints most often used .
ये   ``   आशुलिपि  ''  or   ``   गति   कॉलिंग  '' numbers are automatically translated to unique  टेलीफोन   संख्याएँ  before the call can be  कनेक्ट  .
Some special  सेवाएं   have  their own short  संख्याएँ   (  e.g.  ,   1-1-9   ,  9-1-1  ,   0-0-0  , 9-9-9 , 1-1-1  ,  and 1-1-2  होने  the Emergency Services  संख्याएँ   लिये   चीन  ,  जापानी  ,  दक्षिण  Korea ,  ताईवान  and  श्री  Lanka  ;  Canada and the United States  ;  Australia ; the United Kingdom  ,  Ireland , South Africa  ,  Poland  ,   सऊदी   अरब  , the United Arab  अमीरात  , Morocco  ,   मकाओ   ,  Bahrain , Qatar , Bangladesh  ,  Botswana , Ghana  ,  Kenya , Hong Kong , Malaysia , Mauritius  ,  Singapore  ,  Zimbabwe ,  त्रिनिदाद  , Tobago ;  नई   जीलैंड  ; Kuwait and the European Union ,  क्रमशः  .  )
अनेक  systems also  allow  calls  भीतर   a  local  क्षेत्रफल  to be  बना   बगैर  dialing the local area code  .
लिये  example , a  फोन  number  in   उत्तर  America  होगा   प्रारंभ  with three numbers (  ऐसे  as  661  ) ,  जिससे   is  the area code , followed by  सात   अंक  split into sections of  तीन   और  four  (   ऐसे  as 550-1212 ) ,  जिससे   is  the  लोकल  number .
Some  क्षेत्रों   अभी  have  अनिवार्य  ten-digit dialing in  प्लेस   ,  even for local calls .
Most telephone networks today (  अपवाद  being  निजी  intercom and secure  फोन  networks  )   हैं  interconnected in the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  telephone network , where the  स्वरूप   of  telephone numbers is standardized by  itu-t  in the recommendation E.164 .
इस   specifies   कि  the entire number should  be  15 digits or shorter , and  शुरू   साथ  a country prefix .
लिये   सबसे   देशों   ,  this is  followed  by an area code or city code  और  the subscriber  क्रमांक  ,  जिससे  might  consist   of  the code for a particular telephone  एक्सचेंज  .
itu-t  recommendation  e.123   describes   कैसा  to represent  an   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  telephone number  in   लिखने   or  print  ,  starting with a  प्लस   चिह्न  (  ``   +  ''  )  and the country code .
When  कॉलिंग   an   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  number  इससे   a  fixed line phone , the  +  must be  replaced   साथ  the international  कॉल   उपसर्ग  chosen by  the   देश   the   कॉल  is  होने   बना  from .
Some mobile  फोन   allow  the + to be entered  सीधे  .
The  स्वरूप  and  आवंटन  of  लोकल  phone numbers are controlled by  प्रत्येक   स्वदेश  's  संबंधित  government , either  सीधे   or  by sponsored organizations (  ऐसे   as  NANPA overseen by NeuStar Inc.  )   .
Before a telephone  कॉल   is  connected  ,   the  telephone number must  be  dialed by  the  calling  पार्टी  or Caller .
The called party  might  have  उपकरण   कि   presents  caller  id  before  the   कॉल  is answered .
a  collection agency  is  a  कारोबार  that  pursues  payments  of  debts  owed  by individuals or  व्यवसायों  .
Most collection  एजेंसियों  operate  as  agents of creditors and  collect   debts  for a fee or percentage of the  कुल   राशि   owed  .
There are many types  of   संग्रहण   एजेंसियों  .
First-party agencies are oftentimes subsidiaries of the original company  the   कर्ज़   is   owed   to  .
Third-party agencies are separate companies  contracted   by  a company  to  collect debts on their behalf for  a  fee .
Debt buyers  खरीदें   the   कर्ज़   at  a percentage  of  its value ,  तब  attempt  to  collect it  .
Each  देश  has its  अपना  rules  और   regulations  regarding them  .
Cannabis flower with  दृश्य  trichomes
Cannabis , also known  as  marijuana (  इससे  the Mexican Spanish marihuana ) ,  और  by  अन्य  names , is a  तैयारी  of the Cannabis plant intended  लिये  use as  a  psychoactive drug and as  आयुर्विज्ञान  .
Pharmacologically  ,  the principal psychoactive  constituent  of cannabis  is  tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) ; it is one  of   483  known compounds in the plant  ,  including  at   तनिक  84  अन्य   cannabinoids  , such as cannabidiol ( CBD ) , cannabinol  (  CBN  )  ,  tetrahydrocannabivarin  ( THCV ) .
and cannabigerol (  cbg   )  .
This  is  a list  of  American football quarterbacks who  have  started  लिये  the  वॉशिंगटन  Redskins , as well as  इसके  predecessors the  बोस्टन  Braves  (  1932 ) and Boston  redskins   (  1933 –  1936  ) ,  in   the  National Football  लीग  (  एनएफएल  ) .
The  वॉशिंगटन   redskins   मताधिकार   थी   originally  founded in Boston  ,   मैसाचुसेट्स  as the Boston Braves , named after the  लोकल  baseball franchise  .
The name was changed the  following  year to  the  Redskins .
In  1937  ,  the  franchise moved to  वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
Of  the  49 Redskins starting  quarterbacks  ,  दो  have been inducted  into  the Pro  फ़ुटबॉल  Hall  of  Fame :  सैमी  Baugh and Sonny Jurgensen .
रॉबर्ट   griffin   iii  2012-present
Jason Campbell 2005-2009
Mark  burnell  2004-2007
चिह्नित  Rypien 1986-1993
Joe Theismann 1974-1985
सैमी  Baugh 1937-1952
1st Special Forces  operational  Detachment-Delta ( 1st  sfod-d   )  , popularly known as Delta Force ,  is  one of  the  United States ' four secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission  इकाई  .
It was formerly listed as the Combat Applications Group by  the  Department of  रक्षा  but has since been officially re-designated the Army  compartmented  Elements  (  ACE  )  .
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively supported by USASOC , it  जलप्रपात  under  the  operational  कंट्रोल   of  the Joint Special  परिचालन  Command .
Delta Force  और  its Navy counterpart  ,  the  नवल  Special Warfare Development Group , are the United States military 's  प्राथमिक  counter-terrorism units  .
Delta  फ़ोर्स  's primary  कार्य   हैं  counter-terrorism , direct action  ,  and national intervention operations  ,  although it is  an   अत्यधिक  versatile group capable of conducting many types of  गुप्त   मिशन   ,  including , but not  सीमित  to  ,  hostage rescues and raids .
the   सेंट्रल  Intelligence Agency 's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and more specifically  इसके  elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) often works with – and recruits –  ऑपरेटर   इससे   डेल्टा   फ़ोर्स  .
Alpha decay  is  one  उदाहरण  type of radioactive decay  ,  in  जिससे   an  atomic nucleus emits an alpha  कण  , and thereby transforms  (   or   'क्षयs   '  )  into  an atom with a  द्रव्यमान  number 4 less and  परमाणु  number  2  less .
Many other types of  decays  are possible .
Radioactive  क्षय  ,  भी   ज्ञात  as nuclear  क्षय  or  radioactivity  ,  is  the process  by  which  a   केंद्रक  of an  अस्थिर   अणु  loses energy by emitting particles  of  ionizing  विकिरण  .
A material that spontaneously emits this kind of radiation — which includes the emission of energetic  अल्फा  particles  ,  beta  अणु   ,  and gamma  किरणें  — is considered  रेडियोसक्रिय   .
There are  अनेक  different  प्रकार   of  radioactive  क्षय  ( see table  नीचे  ) .
a  decay , or loss of energy  ,  results when an atom with one type of  केंद्रक   ,  called  the  parent radionuclide , transforms to an atom  साथ   a   केंद्रक   in  a different state  ,  or  to  a different  केंद्रक  containing different numbers of protons and neutrons .
Either of  ये  products is named the daughter nuclide .
in   कुछ  decays  the   जनक  and  बेटी   हैं  different chemical elements , and thus the  क्षय  process  परिणाम  in  नाभिकीय  transmutation ( creation of  an   अणु   of   a  new element ) .
The first decay processes to be discovered  यहूद   अल्फा  decay ,  बीटा   क्षय  , and gamma decay .
अल्फा  decay occurs  जब  the nucleus ejects an  अल्फा  particle ( helium  केंद्रक  ) .
This is  the   सबसे  common  प्रक्रम  of emitting nucleons , but in rarer types of decays , nuclei can eject  protons  , or  विशिष्ट   nuclei  of other elements  (   in   the  process  पुकारा  cluster  क्षय   )   .
Beta  क्षय  occurs  जब  the nucleus  emits  an  इलेक्ट्रॉन  or positron  और  a type of  न्यूट्रिनो  , in a process that changes a  प्रोटॉन  to a neutron or the  अन्य  way around .
the   केंद्रक   may   कैप्चर   an  orbiting electron  ,  converting a proton into a neutron ( electron capture )  .
All of these  प्रक्रियाओं  result  in   नाभिकीय  transmutation .
By contrast , there exist  रेडियोसक्रिय   क्षय   प्रक्रियाओं  that do not result in  transmutation   .
The  उर्जा  of an  उत्साहित  nucleus may be emitted  as  a gamma ray in gamma  क्षय  , or  प्रयुक्त  to eject an  कक्षीय  electron by  बातचीत  with the excited  केंद्रक  in a  प्रक्रम  called internal  परिवर्तन  .
Radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons , and this results in a change in an element from one isotope to another  .
One type  of  radioactive decay  परिणाम  in  उत्पाद  which are not defined , but  appear   in  a range  of   ``  pieces  ''  of the original nucleus .
This  क्षय   is   पुकारा  spontaneous  परिवर्द्धन  .
इस   क्षय  happens  जब  a large  अस्थिर  nucleus  अनायास  splits into two ( and  occasionally   तीन  ) smaller daughter nuclei  ,  and usually  emits  gamma  किरणें  , neutrons , or other particles as a  consequence   .
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e.  ,  random ) process  at  the  स्तर  of  सिंगल   अणु  , in  कि  , according  to   क्वांटम  theory  ,   it   is  impossible  to  predict when a  particular   अणु   होगा  decay .
However , the chance  कि  a  दिए  atom will decay is constant over  समय  .
For  a   विशाल  number of  अणु  , the decay rate for the collection  is  computable from the measured decay  स्थिरांक  of  the   न्यूक्लाइड  ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ) .
Waxing  is  a form  of  semi-permanent hair  हटाना  which removes  the  hair  इससे  the root .
नई   बाल  will not grow back  in   the  previously waxed area for two to eight weeks  ,  although some people  होगा  start  to   देखिए  regrowth  in  only a week  .
Almost any area of the body can be waxed , including eyebrows  ,   फेस   ,  bikini area  ,   टाँगे  ,  बाहें  , back , abdomen and feet  .
There  हैं   अनेक  types of waxing suitable for removing unwanted hair .
Strip waxing  is   संपन्नता   by  spreading a  मोम  thinly over  the  skin .
a   cloth  or  पेपर   स्ट्रिप   is  then pressed on the  शीर्ष   और  ripped  बंद  the direction of  बाल  growth .
This  removes  the wax along with the hair .
Strip  मोम  can  भी  be made at  घर  using  नीबू   रस  , water , sugar and  मधु  .
Hot waxing utilizes Hot  मोम   (  as opposed  to  strip wax ) .
In this  मामला  , the wax is applied  somewhat  thickly and with no cloth or paper strips .
The wax then hardens  जब  it  cools   ,  thus allowing  the   आसान  removal  by   a   चिकित्सक  without the aid of cloths .
This  वैक्सिंग   विधि   is   बहुत  beneficial to  लोगों  who have sensitive skin .
वॉल  painting (  1st   सदी   ad  )  इससे   pompeii  depicting a multigenerational banquet
Ancient Roman culture  existed  throughout the almost 1200-year  इतिहास  of the civilization of Ancient Rome .
the  term refers to the  संस्कृति  of the  रोमन   गणतंत्र   ,  later  the   रोमन   साम्राज्य   ,  which  ,  at  इसके  peak , covered an area  इससे  Lowland Scotland and  मोरक्को  to the Euphrates  .
Life in  प्राचीन  Rome revolved  around   the  city  of   रोम  , its famed seven  पहाड़ियाँ   ,  and its monumental structures such as the Flavian  amphitheatre  ( now called  the  Colosseum ) , the  फ़ोरम  of Trajan  ,  and  the   pantheon  .
The city  भी  had several theaters , gymnasiums , and many  taverns  ,  baths  , and  brothels  .
Throughout the territory  अंतर्गत  ancient Rome 's control , residential  वास्तुकला  ranged from very modest houses to country villas , and  in   the   पूंजी   नगर  of  रोम   ,  there  यहूद   इम्पीरियल   निवास   on  the elegant Palatine Hill , from which  the   शब्द  palace  is  derived .
The  विशाल  majority of  the  population lived in the city center ,  packed   into  insulae ( apartment blocks ) .
the  city of Rome was the largest megalopolis  of   कि   समय  , with a population that  may  well  have  exceeded one million people , with  a  high end  अनुमान  of  3.6  million and  a   कम   समाप्त  estimate of 450,000 .
Historical estimates  indicate  that around 30 percent  of   the  population under the  नगर   's   क्षेत्राधिकार  lived in  innumerable  urban  centers  , with population  of  at  तनिक   10,000  and  अनेक  military  settlements   ,   a  very  ऊँची   रेट  of urbanization  by  pre-industrial  मानकों  .
The  सबसे  urbanized part  of  the Empire was  इटली  ,  जिससे   था  an estimated rate of urbanization of 32 % ,  the  same  रेट  of  शहरी   of  England in 1800 .
Most  रोमन  towns and cities had a forum ,  मंदिरों  and the same type of buildings  ,  on a smaller scale  ,   as  found in Rome .
The large urban population  जरूरी  an endless supply of  खाना   जिससे  was  a  complex logistical task  ,   सहित   acquiring  , transporting  ,  storing and distribution  of   खाना   लिये  Rome and  अन्य  urban centers .
Italian farms supplied vegetables and  फल  ,  लकिन  fish  और   मांस   यहूद  luxuries  .
aqueducts   यहूद   निर्मित  to  लाओ  water  to  urban centers and wine and oil were imported from Hispania , Gaul and Africa .
There was  a  very large amount  of  commerce between the provinces of the Roman Empire ,  चूंकि   इसके  transportation technology was  बहुत   कुशल   .
the   औसत  costs of transport and  the  technology were comparable with 18th-century Europe .
The  बाद   नगर  of  रोम   किया  not  भरण  the  स्पेस   भीतर  its ancient Aurelian  दीवारें   जबतक   बाद  1870 .
Eighty percent of the  जनसांख्यिकी  under  the   क्षेत्राधिकार   of   प्राचीन  Rome  जिया  in the countryside in  settlements   साथ  less than 10  हजार  inhabitants  .
जमींदार  generally resided in cities and their estates were left in  the  care  of  farm managers .
The plight of rural slaves was  generally  worse than  उनके  counterparts  working  in  शहरी  aristocratic households .
to  stimulate  a  higher  मजदूर  productivity most landlords freed a large number of slaves and many  प्राप्त   मजदूरी   .
Some records indicate  कि  ``  as   अनेक  as  42   लोगों  lived in one  छोटी  farm hut  in  Egypt , while six families owned a single olive  पेड़  . ''  .
Such a rural  पर्यावरण   जारी  to induce migration  of  population to  शहरी  centers until the early 2nd century , when the urban  जनसांख्यिकी   रोका  growing  और   प्रारंभ   to  decline .
Starting  in  the middle  of   the  2nd  सदी   bc   ,   निजी   यूनानी  culture  थी  increasingly in ascendancy , in spite of tirades against the `` softening ''  प्रभाव  of  hellenized   संस्कृति  from the conservative moralists  .
By the time of Augustus  ,  cultured Greek household  स्लेव   सिखाया  the Roman young  (   sometimes  even the girls  )  ; chefs  ,  decorators ,  secretaries   ,  doctors , and hairdressers—all came from  the   यूनानी  East .
Greek sculptures  सुशोभित   hellenistic   लैंडस्केप  gardening on the  palatine   or  in the villas ,  or   यहूद   imitated  in Roman sculpture  गज  by  यूनानी  slaves  .
The Roman cuisine preserved in  the   cookery   किताबे  ascribed to Apicius is  essentially   यूनानी  .
रोमन  writers  disdained  Latin for a cultured Greek style .
Only in law and governance was the Italic  प्रकृति   of  Rome 's  accretive   संस्कृति   परम्  .
Against this  इंसान   पृष्ठभूमि  , both the urban and rural setting , one  of  history 's most influential civilizations  took   आकार   ,   leaving  behind a cultural  विरासत   कि   survives  in part  आज  .
James Joseph  ``  Duffy ''  waldorf   ,   jr.   (  born August  20  , 1962 )  is  an American professional  मनःस्थिति  .
कांच   बोतलों   (  for cucumber  स्लाइस  ) on shipping  pallets
a  Soviet mayonnaise  जार
A modern  ``  French  kilner  '' jar
Glass production  involves  two  प्रमुख  methods – the  फ्लैश   कांच  process ,  जिससे  produces sheet glass  ,  and glassblowing which produces bottles and other  containers  .
a  season is a  subdivision   of  the year  ,  marked by changes in weather ,  पारिस्थितिकी  , and hours of daylight .
Seasons  परिणाम  from  the  yearly revolution of the  धरती  around  the  Sun and the tilt of the Earth 's  अक्ष   सापेक्ष  to the plane of revolution .
In temperate and polar  regions  , the  सीज़न  are marked by changes  in  the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface ,  विसंगतियाँ  of  जिससे  may cause  पशु  to go  into  hibernation  or   to  migrate , and plants to  be  dormant .
During May ,  जून  and July , the northern hemisphere is exposed  to   अधिक   सीधा  sunlight because the hemisphere  चेहरों  the sun .
the  same is true  of   the  southern hemisphere in November ,  दिसम्बर  and  जनवरी   .
It is  the  tilt of the Earth that causes  the  Sun to  be  higher in the sky during  the  summer months which increases  the  solar flux  .
However , due to  मौसमी   lag  , June , July and August are the hottest months in the northern  गोलार्ध  and December , January and February  हैं  the hottest  महीने  in the  दक्षिणी  hemisphere  .
In  शीतोष्ण  and subpolar regions , generally  चार  calendar  -आधारd  seasons ( with their adjectives ) are  पहचाना  : spring (  vernal  ) , summer  (  estival ) , autumn ( autumnal ) and winter (  hibernal  )  .
However ,  ecologists  mostly use a six  ऋतु  model for temperate climate regions that  शामिल  pre-spring ( prevernal )  और  late summer (  serotinal   )  as distinct  सीज़न   साथ   साथ  the  परंपरागत   चार  .
Hot regions have two or three  सीज़न  ; the rainy ( or wet , or monsoon ) season and the  शुष्क  season , and  in  some tropical areas  ,  a cool  or  mild season .
in  some  भाग  of the  संसार  , special ``  सीज़न  ''  हैं  loosely defined based  on   महत्वपूर्ण  events such as  a   hurricane  season  ,   बवंडर  season or a  दावानल  season .
The  छह   ecological  seasons
The four calendar seasons , depicted in an  प्राचीन   रोमन   मोज़ेक   इससे   ट्यूनीशिया
the  Battle of Fort Sumter ( April 12–14 , 1861 ) was the  बमबारी   और  surrender of Fort Sumter  ,  near Charleston ,  दक्षिण   कैरोलिना  , that started the  अमरीकी  Civil War .
Following  घोषणाओं  of  secession  by seven Southern states ,  दक्षिण  Carolina demanded that  the  U.S. Army  लापरवाही  its facilities in Charleston  हार्बर  .
on  December  26  , 1860  ,  U.S.  प्रमुख  Robert Anderson  surreptitiously   स्थानांतरित  his  छोटी  command from  the  indefensible Fort  moultrie   on  Sullivan  's  Island to  फोर्ट   sumter  ,  a   substantial   किला  controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor  .
An  attempt  by U.S. President James Buchanan  to  reinforce  और  resupply Anderson  ,  using the unarmed merchant  जलयान  Star of  the   वेस्ट  , failed when  it   थी  fired  upon  by shore batteries on January  9  ,  1861  .
South Carolina authorities then  जब्त   सब  Federal  प्रॉपर्टी  in  the   चार्ल्सटन   क्षेत्रफल  , except for  फोर्ट  Sumter .
दौरान   the   जल्दी   महीने  of 1861 , the  हालात  around Fort Sumter  increasingly  began to resemble a  घेरा  .
In March ,  ब्रिगेडियर  . Gen.  P.   G.  T.  beauregard  , the first  सामान्य  officer  of  the  newly  formed  confederate  States of America ,  थी  placed  in   कमांड  of  confederate   शक्तियां  in Charleston .
Beauregard energetically directed the  strengthening  of batteries around  चार्ल्सटन  harbor aimed at  फोर्ट  Sumter  .
Conditions in the fort  grew  dire as the  संघ  soldiers rushed to  पूरा  the installation of  अतिरिक्त  guns .
एंडरसन  was  छोटी   of  men  ,  food ,  और  supplies .
the   resupply  of Fort Sumter  became  the  पहला  crisis of the administration of President  अब्राहम  Lincoln .
He  notified  the Governor of South Carolina , Francis W. Pickens , that he  थी   sending  supply ships  ,  which resulted in an ultimatum  इससे  the  confederate  government :  evacuate  Fort Sumter immediately  .
Major  एंडरसन  refused  to  surrender .
Beginning at 4:30 a.m.  on   अप्रैल  12  ,  the Confederates  bombarded  the  फोर्ट   इससे  artillery batteries surrounding the harbor .
Although  the  Union garrison returned fire  ,  they  यहूद   significantly   outgunned  and , after 34  घंटों  , Major  एंडरसन  agreed to evacuate .
वहीँ  was  no   घाटा   of  life on either side as a  सीधा  result of this engagement , although a  गन   विस्फोट  during  the   आत्मसमर्पण  ceremonies on April 14 caused two  संघ  deaths .
Following the  बैटल   ,  there was widespread  support  from  दोनो  North and  दक्षिण  for further  सैन्य  action .
Lincoln 's immediate call for  75,000   स्वयंसेवक   to  suppress  the  rebellion resulted  in  an additional four southern  स्लेव  states  भी  declaring  उनके  secession  और  joining the  confederacy   .
The  सिविल   युद्ध  had  begun  .
3G , short for third  पीढी   ,  is the third generation of mobile telecommunications technology .
3G  दूरसंचार  networks support services  कि  provide  an   सूचना  transfer rate  of   at  least 200 kbit/s  .
However  ,  many services advertised  as  3G  provide  higher  गति  than  the   न्यूनतम  technical  आवश्यकताएँ  for  a   3g  service .
Recent 3G  रिलीज   ,  often denoted 3.5G and  3.75g  , also  provide   मोबाईल  broadband  अभिगम  of  अनेक  Mbit/s to  स्मार्टफ़ोन  and  मोबाईल  modems in laptop computers .
3G finds application  in   बेतार   आवाज़  telephony , mobile  अंतरजाल  access , fixed wireless Internet access , video  काल्स  and mobile TV .
``  Mazel Tov ! '' written on a  वाइन   कांच  tag
Traditionally , after the  दूल्हे  breaks the  कांच  , the guests shout `` Mazel Tov ! `` .
a   जन्मदिवस   केक  , iced with the words  ``  מזל  טוב  '' ( mazal tov ) , as  is  often done  in  Israel .
Here the  phrase   is  written in Hebrew cursive .
``  mazel  tov ''  or  `` mazal tov '' (  यहूदी  /  यहूदी  :  ``  מזל טוב ''  ,  Hebrew :  ``   mazal  tov  ''  ; Yiddish  :  ``  mazel  tov '' ;  lit   .
`` good luck '' )  is   a  phrase used to express congratulations  लिये  a happy and significant occasion or event .
hepatitis  C is  an  infectious disease affecting primarily the liver , caused by the hepatitis C  वायरस  ( HCV  )   .
The infection is  प्रायः  asymptomatic , but  दीर्घकालिक  infection can  सीसे  to scarring of the liver and  ultimately   to  cirrhosis ,  जिससे  is generally apparent  बाद  many years .
In  कुछ  cases , those with cirrhosis will  go  on to develop liver  विफलता   ,  liver cancer or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices .
HCV is spread primarily by  blood-to-blood  contact  संबद्ध  with intravenous  ड्रग  use  ,   poorly  sterilized medical  उपकरण  and  transfusions  .
an   अनुमानित  130–200 million  लोगों   विश्वव्यापी  are  संक्रमित  with .
The existence of  (  originally ``  non-   a   non-   b   hepatitis  '' )  थी   postulated  in the 1970s and  सिद्ध  in  1989  .
only infects humans and chimpanzees .
The virus persists in  the  liver in  परिचय  85 % of  those  infected  .
This  persistent  infection can  be  treated  साथ   दवा  :  the  standard therapy is  a   संयोजन  of peginterferon  और  ribavirin , with either boceprevir or telaprevir  added  in some cases .
Overall , 50–80  %  of people treated are  cured   .
Those who develop  cirrhosis  or liver cancer may require  a  liver transplant .
is   the  leading cause of liver transplantation , though the virus usually  बारंबार  after  प्रत्यारोपण  .
No vaccine  विरूद्ध  is available  .
A flexible  बिता  account (  fsa  )  ,  also known as a flexible spending  व्यवस्था  , is one of a number of tax-advantaged  वित्तीय  accounts that can  be  set up  through   a  cafeteria plan of an employer  in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   .
An  fsa  allows an  कर्मचारी  to set aside a portion of earnings to pay for qualified expenses as established  in  the cafeteria  योजना  ,  सबसे  commonly  लिये  medical expenses  लकिन  often  लिये  dependent care  or  other expenses .
Money deducted from  an  employee  's  pay into an FSA is  नहीं  subject to payroll taxes ,  resulting   in   substantial  payroll  कर  savings  .
One significant disadvantage to using  an  FSA is that funds not used by  the  end of  the   योजना  year are lost to the  कर्मचारी   ,  known as  the   ``  use it or  खोना  it  ''  rule  .
The most common  प्रकार  of flexible spending account , the medical expense  fsa   (   भी  medical FSA or health  fsa   )  , is  समान   to  a health savings  खाता  ( HSA  )   or  a health reimbursement  खाता  (  hra  ) .
However ,  जबकि   hsas  and HRAs are almost exclusively used as  components  of a consumer driven health  परवाह  plan ,  चिकित्सा   fsas  are commonly offered with more  परंपरागत   स्वास्थ्य  plans  as  well .
In addition , funds  in   a  health  बचत  account are not lost when the  योजना  year is over , unlike funds in an  fsa   .
Paper forms or an FSA  डेबिट  card ,  भी  known as a Flexcard ,  may  be used to access the account  निधि  .
टेनेसी  (  )   (  ) is a  u.S.   राज्य  located in  the  Southeastern United States  .
टेनेसी   is  the 36th most extensive  और  the  17th  most populous of the 50 United States  .
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky  और   वर्जिनिया  to the  उत्तर  , North Carolina  to  the east , Georgia  ,  Alabama , and Mississippi  to  the  दक्षिण  , and Arkansas  और   मिसौरी  to the  वेस्ट  .
the  Appalachian  kyu  dominate the  पूर्वी  part  of   the  state  ,  and  the  Mississippi River forms the state  's   पश्चिमी   किनारा  .
टेनेसी  's capital  और  second largest city is Nashville  ,  which has a  जनसांख्यिकी  of 609,644 .
Memphis  is  the state 's  largest  city , with  a  population of  652,050  .
The state of Tennessee is rooted  in   the   watauga  Association ,  a  1772 frontier pact  generally  regarded as the  पहला  constitutional  सरकारी   वेस्ट  of the Appalachians .
What is now Tennessee was  initially   भाग   of   उत्तर  Carolina , and  बाद   भाग  of  the   दक्षिणपश्चिम  Territory  .
Tennessee  थी  admitted to  the  Union as the 16th  राज्य  on June 1  ,  1796  .
Tennessee was  the  last state to leave the Union and join  the  Confederacy at the outbreak of  the  U.S.  सिविल  War  in  1861  ,  and the first state  to  be readmitted to the  संघ  at  the  end  of  the war .
Tennessee furnished more  सैनिको  for the  confederate  Army  than  any other state , and  अधिक  soldiers for the  संघ  Army than any other Southern  राज्य  .
In the 20th  सदी   ,   टेनेसी   transitioned  from  an  agrarian economy  to  a more  diversified   अर्थव्यवस्था  ,  aided  at times  by  federal entities  ऐसे  as the Tennessee Valley Authority  .
in  the  जल्दी   1940s   ,  the city of Oak  लकीरें  was established to  हाउस  the Manhattan Project 's uranium enrichment facilities  ,  helping to  निर्माण  the world 's  पहला  atomic  बमबारी  .
टेनेसी   रै  played  a  critical role  in  the development of  अनेक  forms  of   अमरीकी  popular music  ,  including  चट्टान   और  roll ,  ब्लूज़  , country , and rockabilly .
Beale  गली  in  मेम्फिस  is considered by many to  be  the birthplace of  the  blues , with musicians such as W.C .  सुलभ   performing  in its clubs  as  early  as  1909 .
Memphis was  भी  home to Sun Records , where musicians  ऐसे   as  Elvis Presley ,  इसहाक़  Hayes  ,  Johnny Cash , Carl Perkins , Jerry  ली   लुईस  , Roy Orbison , and Charlie  समृद्ध  began their recording careers , and where rock and roll  took   आकार  in the 1950s .
the  1927 Victor recording  सत्र  in  ब्रिस्टल  generally mark the beginning of  the  country music  विधा   और  the rise of the  ग्रैंड  Ole Opry  in  the  1930s   helped  make  नैशविले   the  center of the country  म्यूज़िक   रिकॉर्डिंग  industry  .
Three bricks and mortar museums recognize  टेनेसी  's  भूमिका   in  nurturing various forms of popular music  :  the Memphis Rock N ' Soul Museum , the  देश  Music Hall of Fame  और  Museum in Nashville , and the International  rock-a-billy  Museum in Jackson .
In addition  ,  the  rockabilly  Hall of Fame , an online site recognizing the development of rockabilly in which Tennessee played a crucial  भूमिका  ,  is  based in Nashville  .
Tennessee 's major  उद्योग  include  कृषि  ,  निर्माण  , and tourism  .
Poultry , soybeans , and cattle  हैं   the  state 's primary agricultural products ,  और   प्रमुख  manufacturing exports include  रसायन   ,  transportation  उपकरण  , and electrical equipment .
the  Great  smoky   kyu   नेशनल  Park ,  the   स्वदेश  's  सबसे   visited   नेशनल  park ,  is  headquartered in the  पूर्वी  part of the state ,  और  a section of  the  Appalachian Trail roughly follows the  tennessee-north  Carolina  किनारा  .
Other  प्रमुख   पर्यटक  attractions  शामिल  the Tennessee  एक्वेरियम  in  चट्टानूगा   ,  the Sunsphere in  knoxville  ,  dollywood  in Pigeon  forge  ,  the   पार्थेनन  , the Country Music Hall  of   कीर्ति  and Museum , and Ryman  ऑडिटोरियम   in   नैशविले  ,  और  Elvis Presley 's  graceland  residence and tomb  in   मेम्फिस   .
One  डिज़ाइन   रूपांतर   of   a  cock ring .
a  cock  रिंग  is a ring that can be placed  around   a  man 's penis  ,   प्रायः  at the base ,  primarily   to   slow  the flow of blood  इससे  the erect  penile   ऊतक   ,   यूँ  maintaining an erection  लिये  a much longer period of  समय  .
Cock rings can be worn  around   बस   the  penis or both the penis  और  scrotum  ,   or  just  the  scrotum  अलोन  , though this is  प्रायः  called a  testicle   कफ  .
Rings can  be  made of a  किस्में  of different  सामग्री  , most commonly leather , rubber ,  or  silicone  ,  though nylon and metal  हैं   भी  used either  as  the main  घटक  or part of the closure .
The  पद  cock ring  is   sometimes   प्रयुक्त   as   a  synonym  लिये   a   प्रिंस  Albert piercing , a piercing of the penis that  is  usually  ,   हालांकि  not  सदा  , a metal ring  .
When used in cases of erectile dysfunction  वे  are known by various  names  such as  ``  erection  रिंग  ''  और   ``   टेंशन  ring '' .
The headquarters  of  Major League Baseball  at  245 Park Avenue , Midtown Manhattan  ,   नई  York City , USA  .
Major League Baseball ( MLB ) is a  पेशेवर  baseball league , consisting of teams that play in  the  National League and the American League  .
Dating  to   1876  and 1901 respectively , the  दो   लीग   मिलाया  in 2000  into  a single  संगठन  led  by  the Commissioner of Baseball , after 100  सालो  as  पृथक   विधिक  entities .
MLB constitutes  एक   of   the   प्रमुख  professional sports leagues of the United  राज्य  and Canada .
it  is composed of 30  टीमों  —  29  in the United  राज्य  and one  in  Canada .
Teams in MLB play  162  games  प्रत्येक   ऋतु   over   छह  months ( April through September ) .
Five teams in  प्रत्येक  league  अग्रिम  to  a  four-round postseason tournament  कि  culminates in the World Series , a  best-of-seven-games  championship series between  the  two league champions which dates to 1903 .
The  संगठन  oversees many minor-league baseball leagues  जिससे  operate about 240 teams  संबद्ध  with the  major-league   क्लब   .
साथ  the International Baseball Federation ,  the  league  भी  manages the international  संसार  Baseball  क्लासिक  tournament .
MLB has the highest season attendance of  कोई  sports league in the world with nearly 75 million  spectators  in 2012 .
Delaware ( )  is  a U.S. state located on the  अटलांटिक   coast  in the Mid-Atlantic region  of  the United States .
it  is bordered to  the  south and west  by  Maryland , to the  पूर्वोत्तर  by New Jersey , and  to   the  north  by  Pennsylvania .
the   राज्य  takes  इसके   नाम   इससे   थामस  West  ,   3rd  Baron  de  La  warr  ,  an  English nobleman  और   वर्जिनिया   's  first  औपनिवेशिक  governor  ,  after  जिसको  what is  अभी   पुकारा  Cape Henlopen was originally  नामित   .
डेलावेयर  is  स्तिथ  in the northeastern  portion  of  the  Delmarva  प्रायद्वीप  and  is  the  दूसरी  smallest , the sixth least  populous  , but the  छठे  most densely  आबादी  of the fifty United  राज्य  .
डेलावेयर  is divided into three counties .
From north to south ,  ये  three counties are New Castle , Kent ,  और  Sussex .
While  the  southern  दो  counties have  historically  been predominantly agricultural  ,   नई  Castle County has been more industrialized .
Before  इसके  coastline  थी  explored by Europeans  in  the 16th century  ,  Delaware was inhabited  by  several  समूह  of Native  अमेरिकी   ,  including the Lenape  in  the north and Nanticoke in  the  south .
It  थी  initially colonized by  डच   व्यापारियों   at  Zwaanendael , located near the present town of Lewes , in 1631 .
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating  in  the American Revolution and on December 7 ,  1787  , became the  पहला  state  to  ratify the Constitution of the  संयुक्त  States , thereby  बनने  known as The First State .
Energy Transformation  in  Energy Systems Language
Energy transformation or  उर्जा  conversion is the  प्रक्रम  of changing  एक   रूप  of energy to another .
in   भौतिकी  , the term energy  describes   the   क्षमता  to produce certain changes  भीतर  a system , without  लिहाज़  to limitations in  परिवर्तन  imposed by Entropy .
परिवर्तन  in total energy  of   प्रणालियों  can only be  संपन्नता  by adding  or  subtracting energy from them  ,  as energy is a  मात्रा  which  is   conserved  , according  to  the first  विधि  of  ऊष्मागतिकी   .
According  to  special relativity , changes  in  the energy of systems will also coincide with changes in  the  system  's  mass ,  और  the total  राशि  of  द्रव्यमान  of a system is a measure of its energy  .
Energy in  a   प्रणाली  may  be   रूपांतरित   so  that it resides  in   a  different state  ,   or  a different type of energy .
Energy  in  many states may  be   प्रयुक्त  to do many varieties of physical work  .
उर्जा  may be used  in  natural processes  or   मशीने   ,   or  else  to  provide  कुछ   सेवा   to  society  (  such  as  heat  ,  light , or  गति  )  .
For example , an internal  दहन  engine  converts  the  संभावित  chemical energy in gasoline and  ऑक्सीजन  into heat , which is then transformed into the propulsive energy ( kinetic energy that  चालें  a  गाडी  )  .
A solar cell converts solar radiation into  विद्युत   उर्जा  that  can  then  be   प्रयुक्त  to  लाइट   a   बल्ब  or  शक्ति  a computer .
The  जेनेरिक  name for a device  जिससे   converts   उर्जा  from one form to another , is a transducer .
In  सामान्य   ,  most types of  उर्जा  , save for  थर्मल   उर्जा  , may be converted  efficiently  to any  अन्य  kind of energy  .
Sometimes this occurs with  an  efficiency of essentially 100 % ,  ऐसे  as  जब  potential energy is converted to kinetic energy  as  an object  जलप्रपात   in  vacuum  ,   or   जब  it orbits  nearer  or farther from  another   ऑब्जेक्ट  ,  in  space  .
Conversion  of   अन्य  types of energies to heat may also  occurs  with nearly perfect  दक्षता  ( many types of  घर्षण  do this  )  .
Exceptions for perfect  परिवर्तन  efficiency (  भी  for isolated  प्रणालियों  ) occur when  उर्जा  has already been partly distributed among  अनेक   उपलब्धियाँ  quantum states for a collection of particles , which are  freely   अनुमत  to explore any  राज्य   of  momentum  और   स्थिति   (  phase  स्पेस   )  .
In  ऐसे  circumstances  ,  a measure called Entropy ,  or   evening-out  of  उर्जा   वितरण  in such  राज्य  , dictates  कि  future states of  the   प्रणाली  must be of at least equal evenness  in  energy distribution .
( There is no way , taking  the  universe as a whole , to collect energy into fewer states ,  एकबार  it has  स्प्रेड  to them ) .
A consequence  of  this  आवश्यकता  is  कि  there are limitations to the efficiency  साथ  which thermal energy can be converted to  अन्य  kinds of energy  ,  since thermal energy in equilibrium at a given temperature already  represents  the maximal evening-out of energy between  सब  possible states .
ऐसे  energy is sometimes  माना   ``   degraded  energy , '' because it  is   नहीं  entirely  usable   .
The second  विधि  of thermodynamics is  a  way of stating that , for  इस  reason , thermal energy  in  a  प्रणाली  may be converted to other kinds  of   उर्जा  with efficiencies approaching 100  %  ,  तभी  if the entropy  (   even-ness   or  disorder ) of  the  universe is increased by other means  ,   to  compensate for the decrease in entropy associated with  the  disappearance of  the  thermal energy and  इसके  entropy content .
Otherwise  ,   तभी  a part of thermal  उर्जा   may  be converted to other  kinds  of energy ( and thus , useful work  )   ,  since the remainder of  the  heat must be reserved to be transferred to  a  thermal reservoir at a lower temperature , in  ऐसे  a way  कि  the increase in Entropy for this process more than compensates for the entropy decrease  संबद्ध   साथ   परिवर्तन  of the  बाकी   of  the heat into other types  of  energy  .
The  नेशनल   हॉकी  League (  एनएचएल  ; )  is  an ``  unincorporated  not-for-profit association '' which  operates  a major professional ice hockey league of 30  franchised   सदस्य  clubs ,  of  which  सात  are currently  स्तिथ  in Canada and 23  in  the  संयुक्त  States .
Headquartered  in  New York City , the NHL  is   widely   माना  to be  the  premier professional ice hockey  लीग  in the world , and  एक  of the major professional sports leagues in the United States  और  Canada  .
the   स्टेनली  Cup  ,  the oldest professional  खेल  trophy in North America , is  awarded   annually   to  the  लीग   playoff  champion at the end of each season .
The league was organized  on  November  26   ,  1917 ,  in  Montreal  ,  Quebec , Canada , after  the   बर्खास्तगी   of   परिचालन  of its predecessor  संगठन  , the National Hockey Association  (   नह   )   ,  which had been founded in 1909 .
it  started with four teams and ,  through  a series of expansions ,  contractions   ,   और  relocations ,  the   लीग  is  अभी  composed  of  30  क्रियाशील  franchises  .
the  nation to which  the  name  of   the  league originally referred was Canada  ,  although  the  league has now  महरूम  binational since 1924  जब  it  विस्तारित  into the  संयुक्त  States .
बाद  a  श्रमिक   विवाद  that led  to  the cancellation of the entire  2004–05   ऋतु   ,  the league resumed play under a new collective bargaining  अनुबंध  that included a salary cap .
In  2009  , the  एनएचएल  enjoyed  रिकार्ड   highs  in  शर्तें   of   sponsorships  , attendance  ,  and television audiences  .
The NHL  draws   अनेक  highly  skilled  players from  सब   over  the  संसार  and currently has players from  परिचय  20 different countries  .
हालांकि  Canadians have historically constituted the  बहुमत  of the  खिलाड़ी  in the NHL  ,  over the past  चार  plus decades the percentages of US and European  खिलाड़ी  have increased both  क्युकी  of  the  NHL 's continued expansion from six  to   तीस   क्लब  since 1967 , and the increased availability of highly skilled  यूरोपीय  players .
This  is   the  complete  सूची   of  the ratified  और  unratified  amendments  to  the   संयुक्त  States  संविधान   जिससे  received the approval of  the  United  राज्य  Congress .
twenty-seven  amendments have  महरूम  ratified since the  असली  signing  of   the  Constitution , the  पहला  ten of which are known collectively as the Bill of Rights  .
the  procedure  लिये   amending  the  संयुक्त  States  संविधान  is governed  by  Article V of the original text .
वहीँ  have been many  अन्य   प्रस्ताव  for amendments to the United States  संविधान   introduced  in  कॉंग्रेस  , but not  सुपुर्द   to  the  राज्य   .
Before an amendment  can   लो  effect ,  it  must  be  proposed  to   the  states  by   a  two-thirds  vote   of  both houses  of   कॉंग्रेस  or by  a  convention  (  known  as  an Article V convention )  पुकारा  by two-thirds  of  the  राज्य  , and  ratified  by three-fourths of  the   राज्य  or by three-fourths of conventions thereof , the  विधि   of  ratification  होने   संकल्पित  by Congress at  the  time  of  proposal .
to  date  ,  no  सम्मेलन   लिये   proposing  amendments has been  पुकारा   by  the states  ,  and only once—in 1933  लिये  the ratification  of   the   twenty-first  amendment —has  the   सम्मेलन   विधि  of  अनुसमर्थन  been employed .
FMR LLC (  वफ़ादारी  Management and Research ) or Fidelity  निवेश  is an American  बहुराष्ट्रीय  financial services  निगम  .
It  is  one  of  the largest mutual fund and  वित्तीय  services  समूह   in   the   संसार  .
It was founded in  1946   और   serves  North American  निवेशकों   .
वफ़ादारी   ventures  is  इसके  venture capital arm .
Fidelity  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Limited (  फील  ) , was  an   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   संबद्ध  founded  in   1969  ,  सेवारत  most countries in  the  rest of the world .
In  सितंबर   2011   ,  FIL was rebranded as  'fidelity  Worldwide Investment  '  .
वफ़ादारी  Investments  manages  a large  परिवार  of mutual funds ,  provides  fund distribution and investment  सलाह  services , as  खूब   as  providing discount  brokerage  services  ,   रिटायरमेंट   सेवाएं  , wealth  प्रबन्धन  ,  प्रतिभूति   निष्पादन   और  clearance ,  जीवन   बीमे  and  a  number of other services .
June  2006  was  the  sixth month  of  that year .
It  began  on a Thursday  और  ended after  30  days on a Friday The following events also occurred during the month:
समाजशास्त्र  is the scientific study of human society and  इसके  origins , development , organizations , and institutions .
It  is  a  सोशल  science which uses various methods of empirical investigation and critical  विश्लेषण   to  develop a body of knowledge  परिचय  human social activity , structures  ,   और   कृत्यों  .
A  लक्ष्य  for  अनेक   sociologists  is to conduct research which may be  लागू   सीधे  to social policy and welfare  ,  while others focus primarily on refining the  सैद्धांतिक  understanding of social  प्रक्रियाओं  .
Subject  पदार्थ  ranges from the micro  स्तर   of  individual agency and interaction to the macro level of systems  और  the social  ढांचा   .
the  traditional  focuses  of sociology include social  स्तरीकरण   ,  social class , culture , race and ethnicity , gender and sexuality , social  गतिशीलता   ,   धर्म  , secularization  ,   विधि  , and deviance .
as   सब  spheres  of   इंसान  activity are affected by  the   interplay  between  सोशल  structure and individual  एजेंसी   ,   समाजशास्त्र   रै  gradually expanded its  फ़ोकस  to  further   विषय   ,   ऐसे   as  health ,  चिकित्सा  , military and penal  संस्थानों  , the Internet , environmental  समाजशास्त्र  ,  राजनैतिक  economy and the role  of  social  कार्यकलाप   in  the  विकास   of  scientific  ज्ञान  .
The  दायरा  of social scientific methods has also expanded  .
सोशल  researchers draw upon a  किस्में  of qualitative and  quantitative   तकनीकों   .
The linguistic  और  cultural turns of the  mid-twentieth  century led  to   increasingly  interpretative , hermeneutic , and philosophic approaches  to   the   विश्लेषण   of  society .
conversely   ,  recent decades  have  seen the rise of new analytically , mathematically  और   computationally  rigorous techniques , such as agent-based modelling and social network analysis  .
Sociology should not be  उलझन   साथ  various  सामान्य   सोशल  studies courses which bear little relation  to   समाजशास्त्रीय   सिद्धान्त  or  सोशल   विज्ञान  research methodology  .
Thunder is  the  sound caused by  बिजली  .
Depending on the nature of the lightning and distance of the  श्रोता  ,  थंडर   can  range  इससे  a sharp , loud  क्रैक  to a long  ,  low rumble ( brontide ) .
The sudden increase  in  pressure and temperature from  बिजली  produces  रैपिड   विस्तार  of  the  air  surrounding  and within a bolt of lightning .
In turn , this  विस्तार   of  air  creates  a sonic  शॉक  wave , similar to a sonic boom  ,  which produces  the   ध्वनि  of thunder  ,  often referred to as  a  clap  ,  crack , or  peal   of   थंडर  .
The distance of  the  lightning  can  be calculated by  the  listener based  on   the  time interval  इससे  when the lightning  is  seen  to   जब  the sound is heard .
Palma  (  , , ) ,  in  full Palma  de  Mallorca , is the major city and  बंदरगाहों   on  the island of Majorca (  mallorca   )  and capital city of  the   autonomous  community of  the  Balearic Islands in  स्पेन   .
The  names   ciutat   de  Mallorca ( City of  majorca  ) and Ciutat  (  City ) were  प्रयुक्त  before the War  of   the  Spanish Succession and are still used by people in Majorca  .
However  ,  the official name was Mallorca , the same  as   the  island .
it  is  situated  on the south coast of  the   द्वीप  on  the  Bay  of   पालमा  .
As  of   the  2009 census  ,  the  जनसांख्यिकी   of   the   नगर  of Palma proper was 401,270 , and  the  population of  the  entire urban  क्षेत्रफल   थी  517,285 ,  रैंकिंग  as  the  twelfth largest  शहरी  area  of   स्पेन   .
Almost half of the total population  of  Majorca live in Palma  .
The  cabrera   द्वीपसमूह  , though widely separated from Palma proper  ,  is administratively considered part of the  नगरपालिका  .
इसके   विमानक्षेत्र  , Son Sant Joan , serves over 22 million  यात्री  each  साल  .
the   marivent  Palace was offered by  the  city  to  the then Prince  जुआन   कार्लोस  I  of   स्पेन   .
The royals have  चूंकि  spent their  गर्मियाँ  holidays in Palma .
Luthor redirects  यहाँ   .
For other uses , see Luther ( disambiguation  )   .
Alexander  जोसेफ   ``  Lex '' Luthor  is   a   fictional  character , a supervillain appearing in comic books  प्रकाशित   by  DC Comics .
Luthor  is  the archenemy of  सुपरमैन   ,  and as a high-status supervillain  ,  has also come into  विरोध  with  बैटमैन  and other superheroes in the DC Universe .
निर्मित  by  जेरी   siegel  and Joe Shuster ,  the  character first appeared in  कार्रवाई  Comics #  23  ( April 1940 ) .
Luthor  is   वर्णित  as `` a power-mad ,  दुष्ट  scientist  ''  of high intelligence and incredible  technological  prowess .
luthor   's  goals  typically  center  on   हत्या  Superman , the foremost obstacle  to  achieving the villain  's  megalomaniacal goals .
Despite periodically  wearing  a powered exoskeleton , Luthor has traditionally  lacked  superpowers or a dual identity .
The character  थी  originally depicted as a mad scientist who , in the vein of pulp novels , wreaks havoc on the world  साथ  his futuristic  weaponry   .
In his earliest appearances  ,  Luthor is shown with a  पूरा  head of red hair  .
despite  this ,  the  character later  became  hairless  as  the result  of   an  artist  's  mistake  .
a  1960 story by Jerry Siegel  विस्तारित  upon Luthor 's  उत्पत्ति   और  motivations , revealing him  to  be a  बाल्यकाल   dost  of Superman 's who lost his  बाल  when a fire  नष्ट  his  प्रयोगशाला   ;  Luthor vowed revenge .
Following the  1985  limited series  संकट   on  Infinite Earths , the  अक्षर  was re-imagined  as   a   machiavellian  industrialist  और  white-collar criminal , even briefly serving as President of the United States .
In recent years , various  लेखक  have  revived  Luthor  's   mad   वैज्ञानिक  persona from the 1940s  .
the  character was  क्रमित  as the 8th Greatest  विलेन   by  Wizard on its 100 Greatest Villains  of  All Time list .
IGN 's list  of  the Top  100   कॉमिक  Book  खलनायक  of  सब  Time ranked  luthor   as   #  4 .
luthor  is also  वर्णित  as a  ``   megavillain   ''   by  comic book critic  पीटर   sanderson  , one  of   a  few genre-crossing  खलनायक   जिनकी   adventures   लो  place `` in a world  in  which  the  ordinary  कानून  of nature are slightly suspended ''  ;  characters such  as  Professor  moriarty  ,  गिनती  Dracula , Hannibal Lecter , Doctor Doom , and  darth  Vader  ,   भी   अनुरूप   इस  description .
Martin  लूथर   किंग  ,  jr.  Day  is  a United States federal holiday  अंकन  the birthday  of  Rev  .  Dr.  मार्टिन  Luther King ,  jr  .
it  is observed on the third  सोमवार   of  January  प्रत्येक  year  ,  which is around the time  of  King 's  जन्मदिवस  ,  जनवरी  15 .
The  फ्लोटिंग  holiday is  समान  to holidays  नियत  under  the  Uniform Monday Holiday  अधिनियम   ,  though the  अधिनियम  predated the  स्थापना  of  मार्टिन  Luther King , Jr. Day by 15 years .
King was the chief spokesman for  nonviolent   सक्रियता  in  the   सिविल  rights movement ,  जिससे   सफलतापूर्वक  protested racial discrimination  in   संघीय  and state law  .
The campaign for a federal holiday in King  's  honor began soon after his  हत्या  in  1968  .
रोनाल्ड  Reagan  हस्ताक्षरित   the   अवकाश  into  विधि  in 1983  ,  and it was  पहला  observed on  जनवरी  20 , 1986 .
at  first  ,  some  राज्य  resisted observing  the   अवकाश  as such ,  giving  it alternative names or combining it  साथ  other holidays  .
It was  officially  observed in all  50  states  लिये   the  first time  in  2000  .
The camera phone solution  allows  instant sharing of  तस्वीरें  .
As it 's automatic and instant ,  the  user does not have  to   उपयोग   a  cable or  removable  media  to   कनेक्ट  to a personal computer .
a  camera  फोन  is  a  mobile phone  जिससे   is  able to capture still photographs (  और   प्रायः   वीडियो  ) .
Since early in the 21st  सदी   the  majority  of  mobile phones in use are  कैमरा  phones .
Most camera phones are simpler than  पृथक  digital cameras  .
Their  usual  fixed  फ़ोकस  lenses and  छोटी   सेंसर  limit their performance in poor lighting .
Lacking a physical shutter  ,   सबसे   have   a  long shutter  lag   .
फ्लैश  , where present , is  प्रायः   कमजोर  .
ऑप्टिकल  zoom  और  tripod screws are rare .
कुछ  also lack a USB  कनेक्शन  , removable memory card , or  अन्य  way of transferring their  तस्वीरें   अधिक   जल्दी   than  by  the  phone 's inherent  संचार   विशेषता  .
Some of  the   अधिक  expensive  कैमरा  phones have only a few of these technical disadvantages , which apply  सबसे  acutely  in  low light conditions and in any case  have  not inhibited their widespread  उपयोग  .
Most model  लाइनों  improve in  ये  regards every year  or  two  .
Some  ,  such as the Droid Incredible only have a menu choice  to  start  an  application program to activate the camera .
अन्य  , such as the BlackBerry  तूफ़ान  2 ,  droid  X  ,  Motorola V980 and Nokia  5800  also have a separate  कैमरा  button for quickness  और  convenience .
खिड़कियाँ   फोन  can  be  configured  to   operate   as   a  camera even if the phone is asleep .
Some  कैमरा  phones are designed to  resemble  separate low-end digital  कॉम्पैक्ट   कैमरे  in  रूप  and to  कुछ  extent in features and picture quality , and  हैं   ब्रांडेड   as  both mobile phones and cameras  ,  including certain Sony phones .
The  प्रिंसिपल   लाभ  of camera phones  हैं  cost  और  compactness ;  बेशक   लिये   a   उपयोक्ता  who carries a  मोबाईल  phone anyway  ,   the  additional size and cost are negligible .
Smartphones that are  कैमरा  phones may run mobile applications to add  सामर्थ्य   ऐसे  as geotagging and image stitching .
A few high  समाप्त  phones can use their touch  स्क्रीन   to   सीधा  their  कैमरा   to  focus  on  a particular object in the  फ़ील्ड  of  दृश्य  ,  giving  even an inexperienced user a  उपाधि   of  focus control  exceeded  only by  seasoned  photographers using  हस्तचालित   फ़ोकस  .
`` Whatever Happened  to   the   man  of  कल   ?  ''  is  a  1986  comic book story featuring  the   dc  Comics character of Superman .
Written  by   एलन  Moore with help from long-time  ,  and  जल्द   to  be retiring , Superman editor  ,  Julius  schwartz  ,  the  story  थी  published in two parts  ,   शुरूआत  in Superman  #  423  और   समाप्ति  in Action  कॉमिक्स  # 583 , both  प्रकाशित  in  सितंबर  1986 .
the  story was drawn  by  long-time artist  रूखा  Swan , in his  फाइनल  major contribution to  the  Superman  शीर्षक  , and was inked by George Pérez in the  समस्या   of  Superman and  कर्ट  Schaffenberger  in  the  समस्या  of Action  कॉमिक्स  .
The story was  an   काल्पनिक   टेल   जिससे  told the final story of the Silver Age Superman and his  long   इतिहास  ,  जिससे  was being  rebooted  following the events  of  Crisis on Infinite Earths , before his modern  परिचय  in the John Byrne series , The Man of Steel .
Moore  चाही  his plot  to  honor the long history  of  the character and to  serve  as a complete conclusion to his mythology  .
The story  is  a frame story  नियत  ten years  बाद  Superman was last seen  ,  where  लोइस  Lane  recounts  the tale of the  समाप्त   of   सुपरमैन   's  career to a reporter from the Daily Planet .
उसके  story includes numerous violent attacks against  सुपरमैन   by  his enemies , the public revelation of his secret identity  of  Clark Kent and a  क्रमांक   of  deaths of those closest  to   उसे   .
The  स्टोरी  has been cited as  एक  of  the  best stories of the  अक्षर  of Superman ,  और   आलोचकों  and audiences frequently choose it  as   एक  of the most memorable comics ever published .
It is  प्रयुक्त   as  an  उदाहरण  of how to close the long-time continuity of a comic book  अक्षर   .
The  स्टोरी  's legacy  रै  endured with  समान  stories written as tributes to it  .
The title is a  सन्दर्भ  to one  of  the nicknames  of   सुपरमैन  as the Man of  कल  , and  थी  used in  the  title  of  another  सुपरमैन  .
The Bugatti Veyron EB  16.4  is  a  mid-engined grand touring car , designed and developed  by  the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim  ,  France by  bugatti   ऑटोमोबाइल   s.a.s   .
The  सुपर  Sport version  of  the Veyron  is  the fastest street-legal production  car  in the world ,  साथ  a top  गति  of  .
The original version has a  शीर्ष  speed of  .
It  थी  named Car  of  the Decade ( 2000–2009  )  by the  बीबीसी  television  कार्यक्रम   शीर्ष  Gear .
The  मानक   veyron  won Top Gears Best Car Driven  सब  Year  पुरस्कार  in 2005 .
On  6   अप्रैल   2013  , Bugatti  नियत  the record  लिये   the  fastest  roadster  in  the  world with  the   veyron  Grand Sport Vitesse  ,  reaching on  औसत  a top speed of .
The Veyron 's chief  पंक्तियां  was Hartmut Warkuss , and the exterior  थी  designed by Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen , with much of the engineering work being  conducted  under  the   मार्गदर्शन   of  engineering  मुख्य   वुल्फगांग   schreiber  .
A  क्रमांक  of  खास  variants  have  been produced .
in  December 2010 ,  bugatti   began   offering   prospective  buyers the ability to customize  exterior  and interiors colours by  using  the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on  the  marque 's official website .
the  institution of the Eucharist has been a key  थीम   in   the   depictions  of the Last Supper  in   ईसाई   आर्ट   ,   as  in  इस  16th-century  जुआन  de Juanes  पेंटिंग  .
`` At the Last Supper  ,  on the night he  थी   गद्दारी   ,  our Savior instituted  the  Eucharistic sacrifice of his Body and Blood . ''
(  catechism   of  the Catholic Church  1323  )
Eucharist in  the  Catholic  गिरिजाघर  refers  to  both the celebration  of   the   द्रव्यमान  ,  कि  is , the Eucharist  liturgy  , and the bread and  वाइन  which  बाद  the consecration are  transubstantiated  (  बदला   in  substance )  into  the body  और   रक्त  of Jesus Christ , Lord and God , a declaration  प्रतिपादित  by the  परिषद   of  Trent with an anathema against anyone  जो   अस्वीकृत  this  .
Blessed Sacrament is a  devotional  term used in the  रोमन  Catholic Church to refer to the  eucharistic  species ( the  देह  and  रक्त  of Christ ) .
the  following is a list of colleges  और  universities in  the   u.S.  state of Louisiana  .
A short  स्टोरी   is  a  ब्रैड  work of  साहित्य  , usually written in  कथा  prose .
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions  in  the  17th  century  ,  the short story  रै  grown to encompass a body  of   कार्य  so diverse as to defy  आसान  characterization .
at   इसके  most prototypical the short story  सुविधाएँ  a  छोटी  cast of  नामित  characters  ,  and focuses on a self-contained incident with  the  intent of evoking  a  `` single effect '' or mood .
In  so  doing ,  छोटी   कहानियां   मेक  use  of   प्लाट   ,   अनुनाद  , and other dynamic components  to  a far greater degree  than   is  typical of an  किस्सा   ,  yet to a far  lesser  degree than  a  novel .
While the short story is largely distinct from  the  novel  ,  authors of  दोनो  generally draw from  a  common pool of  साहित्यिक  techniques .
Short  कहानियां  have  no  set length .
in   शर्तें  of  शब्द  count there  is  no official demarcation  between   an  anecdote  ,  a  छोटी  story , and a novel  .
बल्कि  , the  रूप  's parameters are given by the rhetorical and practical context in  जिससे  a given story is produced and considered , so that what constitutes  a  short story may differ between genres  ,  countries , eras  ,  and commentators .
Like  the  novel , the short story  's   predominant   आकार  reflects the demands of  the  available  बाज़ार   लिये   प्रकाशन  , and the evolution of the  रूप  seems closely  tied  to  the  evolution of the publishing industry and  the   सबमिशन  guidelines of  इसके  constituent  घरों  .
The  छोटी  story has been considered both  an  apprenticeship  रूप   preceding  more lengthy  works  , and a crafted form in its  अपना   सही  , collected  साथ  in books of similar  लंबाई   ,  price , and distribution  as  novels  .
Short story writers may  define  their works as  भाग   of  the artistic  और  personal expression of  the  form .
They may also attempt  to  resist categorization by genre and fixed form .
Area codes  in  Michigan
Area code 810 is the telephone area  कोड  serving  पूर्वी   मिशिगन   .
The raccoon (  ,   procyon  lotor ) , sometimes  spelled  racoon ,  भी   ज्ञात  as the  आम  raccoon , North American  raccoon   ,   उत्तरी  raccoon and  colloquially  as coon  ,  is  a  medium-sized  स्तनधारी   देशी  to  उत्तर  America .
the  raccoon is  the  largest of the  procyonid   परिवार  ,  having   a  body length of and a body weight of  .
इसके  grayish  कोट  mostly consists  of   घना  underfur  जिससे  insulates  विरूद्ध  cold weather  .
Two of the  raccoon   's  most  distinctive  features  हैं   इसके  extremely dexterous  सामने  paws  और  its  फेशियल  mask , which are themes in the mythology of  अनेक   देशी  American tribes .
raccoons   हैं  noted  लिये   उनके  intelligence , with studies showing that they are  समर्थ  to  याद  the solution to  कार्य  for up  to  three years .
The  आहार  of the omnivorous raccoon  ,  which is usually nocturnal , consists  of  about 40  %  invertebrates , 33 % plant foods , and  27  % vertebrates .
The  असली  habitats of the  raccoon  are deciduous and mixed  वनों  , but due to their  adaptability  they have extended their range to mountainous areas ,  तटीय   marshes  ,  और  urban areas ,  जहाँ  some homeowners consider them  to   be  pests .
As  a   परिणाम   of   escapes   और  deliberate introductions in the mid-20th century , raccoons  हैं  now also distributed across the  यूरोपीय  mainland , the Caucasus region and Japan  .
हालांकि  previously thought  to  be solitary , there  is  now  प्रमाण   कि  raccoons engage in gender-specific social behavior  .
सम्बन्धित   महिलाओं   प्रायः   share  a common  क्षेत्रफल  ,  जबकि  unrelated  males   सजीव   साथ  in groups  of  up  to  four animals to  maintain  their positions against foreign males during the mating  ऋतु  , and other potential invaders .
Home range sizes vary anywhere from  3  hectares  (   7  acres )  लिये  females  in   शहरों  to 50 km2 ( 20 sq  mi   )   लिये  males in prairies  .
After a gestation period of about 65 days , two  to  five young , known  as  `` kits '' ,  हैं  born in spring  .
the  kits are subsequently raised by their mother  जबतक   dispersion  in  लेट   पतन  .
Although  खिलाते  raccoons  have  been known to live  over  20 years , their  औसत  life expectancy in  the   जंगली  is only 1.8 to 3.1 years  .
In many  क्षेत्रों   ,   शिकार   और  vehicular injury are  the  two  सबसे  common causes of death .
The 2010 Haiti  भूकंप  was a catastrophic magnitude 7.0  mw   भूकंप  ,  साथ  an  उपरिकेंद्र  near  the  town of Léogâne ( Ouest Department ) ,  लगभग  west  of  Port-au-Prince , Haiti  's  capital .
the  earthquake occurred  at   16:53  local  समय  ( 21:53  utc  ) on Tuesday , 12  जनवरी  2010 .
By 24 January , at least  52  aftershocks  measuring  4.5  or   वृहद  had been recorded  .
An estimated three  लाख  people were affected  by   the  quake  .
the   उच्चतम  reliable death count was  अनुमानित  at 220,000 .
Haitian government estimates were higher  .
The government of  हैती  estimated  कि  250,000 residences  और  30,000 commercial buildings had  collapsed  or  यहूद  severely damaged .
the   भूकंप   caused  major damage in Port-au-Prince , Jacmel  और   अन्य   settlements  in the region  .
Many  notable  landmark buildings were significantly  क्षतिग्रस्त  or destroyed , including the Presidential Palace , the  नेशनल   सभा   भवन  , the Port-au-Prince Cathedral , and the main jail .
Among those  मारे  were Archbishop of Port-au-Prince Joseph  सर्ज   miot  , and opposition leader Micha  gaillard   .
The headquarters of the United Nations  स्थिरीकरण   मिशन   in   हैती   (  MINUSTAH  )  , located in  the  capital , collapsed , killing  अनेक   ,  including the  मिशन  's Chief , Hédi Annabi  .
Many  देशों  responded to appeals for  humanitarian   सहायता  , pledging  निधि  and dispatching  बचाव   और   चिकित्सा  teams , engineers and support personnel  .
Communication systems ,  एयर  ,  जमीन  , and sea  हस्तांतरण   सुविधाएं   ,   अस्पताल  ,  और  electrical networks had been damaged by the earthquake , which  hampered  rescue and aid efforts ; confusion  over  who was in charge  ,   एयर  traffic congestion  ,  and problems with  prioritisation  of flights further complicated early relief work .
Port-au-Prince  's  morgues  यहूद   अभिभूत   साथ  tens  of  thousands of bodies .
These  था   to   be  buried in mass graves  .
as  rescues tailed  बंद  , supplies  ,  medical care and sanitation became priorities .
देरी  in  सहायता   वितरण  led to angry appeals from aid workers  और  survivors , and looting  और  sporadic violence were  observed  .
On  22  January the United  राष्ट्र  noted that  the  emergency phase  of   the   राहत  operation was  आरेखण  to  a  close  ,  and on  the  following day the Haitian government officially  पुकारा  off the search for survivors .
Mister  ed  is a  fictional   talking  horse , originally appearing in  छोटी  stories by Walter  R.  Brooks , and  बाद  in an American television situation  कॉमेडी  produced  by   filmways  that  पहला  aired in syndication from  जनवरी   5   to   जुलाई   2   ,  1961 , and  तब   on  CBS  इससे  October 1  ,  1961 to February  6   ,  1966 .
The stars of the  दिखाएँ   यहूद   मिस्टर   ed  , a  palomino  horse who could  ``  talk ''  ,  played by gelding Bamboo  harvester  and voiced  by  former Western  स्टार   allan  Lane  (  who  गई   uncredited   लिये  the entire  लंबाई  of  the  series ) , and  उसके   मालिक  ,  an  eccentric and enormously  klutzy  ,  yet   दोस्ताना   ,  architect  नामित  Wilbur Post  (  Alan  यंग  ) .
Much  of  the program 's  ह्यूमर  stemmed from the  फैक्ट  Mister Ed would speak  तभी  to Wilbur , as well as Ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker .
Other running  चुटकुले  centered  on   wilbur   's  character being  a   विशाल  klutz and  inadvertently  causing harm  to  himself or others .
According to  the  show  's  producer , Arthur Lubin , Young  थी  chosen  as  the lead character  क्युकी   he  `` just  लगा  like the sort of guy a horse would  बात   to  ''  .
lubin  , a friend of Mae West , scored a  तख्तापलट   by  persuading the  स्क्रीन  icon to guest star in one  एपीसोड  .
In the United States , reruns aired on  उपनाम   at  Nite  इससे   कूच   3  , 1986 ,  to  February 1  ,  1993  .
Sister station TV Land also reran the show from 1996–98 and  again  from  2003-06  .
The series  is  currently  ब्रॉडकास्ट  every morning on  इस  TV  ,  along with Highway Patrol ,  और  The Patty  ड्यूक  Show .
It is  भी   फिलहाल  broadcast on Hallmark Movie Channel .
As of January 1  ,  2011 ,  the  first two seasons  of   the  show are  उपलब्धियाँ   on  Hulu .
the   rapture   is  a  पद   in  Christian eschatology  जिससे   refers   to  the  ``  being caught up '' discussed in 1  thessalonians  4:17 , when  the   ``  dead in Christ  ''   और  ``  we  who are alive  और  remain '' will  be   ``  caught  up  in the clouds  ''  to meet  ``   the   रब  in  the   एयर  '' .
the  term ``  rapture   ''  is  प्रयुक्त  in at least  दो  senses  .
In  the  pre-tribulation  दृश्य  , a group of people will  be  left behind  on   धरती  after another  समूह  literally  पत्ते   ``  to meet the Lord in the  एयर  . ''
This is now  the   सबसे  common use  of  the term ,  विशेषकर  among fundamentalist Christians  और  in the United States .
the  other , older  उपयोग  of the  पद  `` Rapture '' is  बस  as a synonym  लिये  the final resurrection  generally   ,  without  a   विश्वास  that  a   समूह  of people is  बाएँ  behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after  the   कार्यक्रम   of  1  thessalonians  4:17 .
This distinction is important as  कुछ   प्रकार  of Christianity  never  refer to ``  the  Rapture  ''  in religious education , but might  उपयोग  the older and more general sense  of   the  word `` rapture  ''  in referring  to   कया  happens during  the  final resurrection  .
There are many  दृश्य  among Christians  regarding  the  समय   of   मसीह  's return ( including whether  it  will occur in one event  or  two ) , and various views regarding the  गंतव्य  of the aerial gathering described in 1 Thessalonians 4 .
Denominations such  as   रोमन  Catholics , Orthodox Christians  ,  Lutheran Christians , and Reformed  ईसाइयों   मानना   in  a rapture  तभी  in  the  sense  of   a   सामान्य  final  क़यामत  , when Christ returns a single time .
They do not  मानना  that a group of people is  बाएँ  behind on earth  लिये  an extended Tribulation  काल  after  the  events of 1  thessalonians  4:17 .
Pre-tribulation  rapture   धर्मशास्त्र   थी   विकसित  in  the   1830s   by   जॉन  Nelson  darby   और  the  plymouth  Brethren  ,  and  popularized  in  the  United  राज्य   in   the   जल्दी  20th century  by  the wide  परिसंचरण   of   the   scofield  Reference Bible .
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born February  6   ,  1985 )  is  an American  पेशेवर  basketball player  साथ  the  ब्रुकलीन  Nets  .
the   philistine  cities of Gaza , Ashdod , Ashkelon , Ekron  ,   और   gath
The Philistines ( , , , or ; , Plištim ) ,  pleshet  or Peleset  ,  were  a  people who as part  of  the Sea Peoples appeared  in   the  southern coastal area of Canaan at the beginning of the Iron Age (  circa  1175 BC  )  , most probably from the Aegean region .
According to the Bible , they  शासित  the  पाँच  city-states ( the `` Philistine Pentapolis  ''  ) of Gaza ,  ashkelon   ,   ashdod  ,  ekron  and Gath ,  इससे  Wadi Gaza in  the   दक्षिण  to the Yarqon River in the north  ,  but with no fixed  किनारा   to  the  ईस्ट   .
the  Bible paints them as the  किंगडम  of Israel  's  most dangerous enemy  .
originating   कही  in the Aegean  ,  their population  थी  around  25,000  in the 12th century  bc  ,  उठती  to a peak of  30,000   in  the  11th   सदी  BC , of which  the  Aegean  तत्व  was not more  than  half  the  total , and perhaps much  कम  .
nothing  is known  लिये   निश्चित  about the original language or languages of the Philistines , however  वे  were  नहीं   भाग   of  the Semitic  canaanite  population .
वहीँ  is  कुछ  limited evidence  in   पक्ष   of  the assumption  कि   the  Philistines were  indo-european-speakers   either   इससे   यूनानियों  and/or Luwian speakers  इससे   the  coast of Asia Minor .
Philistine-related words found in the Bible are not  सामीती   ,   और  can in some cases ,  साथ  reservations , be traced  वापस  to  proto-indo-european  roots .
by   the  beginning of the 1st Millennium BCE they had adopted  the  general Canaanite language  of   the  region  .
the  Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (  asvab   )  is a multiple choice  परीक्षण  ,  administered   by   the  United  राज्य  Military  प्रवेश   प्रसंस्करण  Command , used  to   determine  qualification for enlistment  in  the  संयुक्त  States armed  शक्तियां  .
It  is   प्रायः  offered  to  American high school  विद्यार्थी  when  वे  are in the 10th , 11th and  12th  grade , though  anyone  eligible  लिये  enlistment may  लो  it .
Although  the  test  is  administered  by   the   सैन्य  , it is not  (  and  never  has been  )  a requirement  कि   a   test-taker   साथ  a qualifying score  enlist  in the armed forces .
in  financial  हिसाब  , a  संतुलन  sheet or statement of financial position is  a  summary  of   the  financial balances  of  a sole proprietorship , a business partnership , a corporation or other  कारोबार   संगठन  , such  as  an LLC or an LLP  .
Assets ,  देनदारी  and ownership equity are listed as of a specific  तिथि  , such  as  the end of  इसके   वित्तीय  year .
a  balance  चादर   is  often described as a `` snapshot of a company 's  वित्तीय   कंडीशन   ''   .
of  the  चार  basic financial statements  ,   the   संतुलन  sheet is  the   तभी  statement which applies to a single point in time of a  कारोबार  '  पंचांग  year .
A standard company balance  चादर  has three parts  :   एसेट  , liabilities  और  ownership equity .
the  main  श्रेणी   of   एसेट   हैं  usually  सूचीबद्ध   पहला  , and typically in order of liquidity .
Assets  हैं  followed  by  the liabilities .
The difference between the  एसेट   और   the  liabilities  is  known  as   इक्विटी   or   the  net assets or the net worth  or  capital  of  the  कम्पनी  and according to the  हिसाब  equation ,  जाल  worth must  बराबर  assets  ऋण  liabilities .
Another  रास्ता  to look at the  वही  equation is that assets equals liabilities plus owner 's equity .
Looking at the  समीकरण  in this  रास्ता  shows how  एसेट  were financed :  either   by  borrowing  धन  ( liability ) or by  using  the owner  's  money  (   मालिक   's  equity  )  .
संतुलन   चादरें  are  प्रायः   प्रस्तुत  with assets in one section  और  liabilities and net worth  in  the other  खण्ड  with the two  भाग  `` balancing . ''
A business operating entirely in cash can measure its  profits   by  withdrawing  the  entire bank  संतुलन   at   the  end of  the   काल   ,   प्लस  any cash  in  hand .
However  ,  many businesses are not paid immediately ;  वे  build  up  inventories of goods  और  they acquire buildings and equipment .
In  अन्य   शब्द   :  businesses have  एसेट   और   so  they can  नहीं  ,  भी   if   वे  want  to   ,  immediately  फेरे   ये   into  cash  at   the  end  of  each period .
Often , these businesses owe money to  आपूर्तिकर्ता  and to tax  अधिकारियों   ,  and the proprietors do not  withdraw  all  उनके  original capital and profits at the end  of  each period  .
in   अन्य   शब्द  businesses also  have  liabilities .
.17   hornady   मैग्नम  Rimfire ,  commonly  known as  the  .17 HMR , is  a   rimfire  rifle cartridge developed by the  ammunition   कम्पनी  Hornady  in  2002  .
It descended  इससे   the  .22  मैग्नम  by necking down  the  .22 Magnum case  to  take  a  .17  कैलिबर  ( 4.5 mm )  गोली  , and  it  is more costly  to   shoot  than traditional  .22  caliber rimfire cartridges .
commonly  loaded with a 17 grain ( 1.1 g ) bullet , it  can   उद्धार  muzzle velocities in excess  of  2550  ft/s  ( 775 m/s  )  .
The  schaumburg  Flyers were a professional  बेसबॉल   टोली   आधारित   in  Schaumburg ,  इलिनोइस   ,  in the United States  .
The  flyers  were to be a  चार्टर  member  of  the North American League  ,  which is not affiliated with Major  लीग  Baseball , however , the team  folded   in   कूच  2011  ,  before they began play in the NAL .
From  the  1999 season  to  the 2010 season  ,   the   flyers  played their home  खेल  at Alexian Field  ,  near the Elgin O'Hare Expressway .
The team formerly played in  थंडर  Bay ,  ओंटारियो  , where they were known as the  थंडर  Bay Whiskey  jacks  .
the  team was  originally  a member of the Northern League from 1993 to 2010  .
on   जुलाई  27 , 2009 , the Flyers played host to Battle of the Sexes II  ,  which pitted the Flyers against  the   नेशनल  Pro  fastpitch  Softball Champions ,  the  Chicago Bandits .
Played  by  official softball rules  ,  the game was seen by an  अतिप्रवाह   रिकार्ड  crowd of 8,918  ,   और  was  जीती  by the Bandits  4-2  .
In 1999 , the  flyers   नियुक्त  their  पहला   मैनेजर  , Ron Kittle .
Kittle is best  ज्ञात  for his playing  दिनों  with the Chicago  श्वेत  Sox  ,  and former  शिकागो  Cubs and White  sox   खिलाड़ी  Greg Hibbard was the pitching  कोच  .
During the early  सालो  of  the  franchise , Kittle did a series of TV commercials to promote the team  ,  using the  gimmick  `` Ma Kittle . '' where he played  दोनो   खुद  and  उसके   ``   ma  . ''
The ads  यहूद  successful at sparking some  आरंभिक   ब्याज  in the team as  the  Flyers hoped to steal away fans from  the  nearby Kane County Cougars  .
The ad mimicked the highly successful Converse ads where Larry Johnson  स्ट्रक्चर   as  both himself  और  `` Gramama . ''
At the end of the 2001 season , however ,  kittle   resigned  from  उसके   managerial   स्थिति   ,   और  Jim Boynewicz  थी  hired to replace him .
in   2004  , the  flyers  made it  to  the  उत्तरी  League  चैंपियनशिप  Series against the St.  पॉल   संतो  .
Despite  अग्रणी   the   five-game  series 2-1 ,  schaumburg   आखिरकार   खोया   the  series  .
in   खेल  5  ,  Flyers  राहत   पिचर   lyle  Prempas allowed a game winning  ग्रैंड  slam  by  St.  पॉल  infielder Marc  mirizzi  in  the  ninth inning .
the  Flyers  appeared  in the  उत्तरी   लीग   playoffs   चार   टाइम्स  ( 1999  ,   2003   ,  2004 ,  2006  )  लकिन  never won the championship  .
कुछ  famous players who played  लिये  the  flyers   यहूद   पूर्व   ओकलैंड  A  's  outfielder Ozzie  canseco   और   पूर्व  Chicago Cubs outfielder  ड्वाइट  Smith  .
Rachel  हन्ना  Weisz ( / vice / ; born  7  March 1970 ) is  an  English film  और   थिएटर  actress  और  former fashion  मॉडल  .
Weisz  began  her  एक्टिंग  career  at   ट्रिनिटी   हॉल   ,  Cambridge in the early  1990s  ,  तब   प्रारंभ   working  in  टेलीविज़न  ,  appearing  in Inspector  मोर्स  , the  अंग्रेजों  mini-series Scarlet and  ब्लैक  , and  the   टेलीविज़न   फिल्मी  Advocates II .
She  बना  her film début  in  the film  मौत   यंत्र  ( 1994 ) ,  लकिन  her  भेदन  role came  in  the film  कड़ी  Reaction ( 1996  )  , leading to  a  high-profile  भूमिका  as Evelyn Carnahan-O'Connell in  the  films  the  Mummy ( 1999 ) and The  मम्मी  Returns (  2001  )  .
Other  notable   films  featuring  वाइज़  are  दुश्मन  at  the   गेट्स   ,  About a Boy ,  constantine  , The Fountain  और  The  निरंतर  Gardener  ,  for  जिससे  she received  an   अकादमी   पुरस्कार  , a Golden  ग्लोब  and a Screen  अभिनेताओं  '  गिल्ड  award  लिये   उसके  supporting role as Tessa  quayle  .
She  रै  been  labelled  an `` English  रोज़  ''  चूंकि  her minor role  in  Stealing Beauty ( 1996 ) .
Weisz also works  in  theatre .
Her stage breakthrough was  the   1994  revival of  noël  Coward  's  play Design for Living  ,  which  अर्जित  her  the   लंदन  Critics  वृत्त   पुरस्कार  for the most promising  newcomer  .
वाइज़  's  प्रदर्शन  also include the 1999 Donmar Warehouse production of Tennessee  विलियम्स  ' Suddenly , Last Summer , and their 2009 revival  of   a  Streetcar  नामित  Desire  .
Her  portrayal   of  Blanche  dubois  in the  latter   खेल  earned her the Critics ' Circle Theatre  पुरस्कार  for  बेहतरीन   अभिनेत्री  .
वो  has  recently  played Evanora in  oz  the Great and Powerful  .
the  American Civil War  (  ACW )  ,  also known  as  the War between  the  States or simply the  सिविल  War ( see naming  )  ,  थी  a civil  युद्ध  fought from  1861  to 1865 between the  संयुक्त  States  (  the  ``  Union ''  or   the  `` North  ''   )  and several Southern  स्लेव   राज्य   कि  declared their secession and formed  the  Confederate States of  अमेरिका   (   the   ``  Confederacy  ''  or the `` South  ''  ) .
The war had  इसके   उत्पत्ति  in  the   समस्या  of  गुलामी  ,  विशेषकर  the  एक्सटेंशन  of slavery into the  पश्चिमी  territories .
Foreign  शक्तियां  did not intervene .
बाद  four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and  नष्ट  much of the South  's  infrastructure  ,  the Confederacy  collapsed   ,  slavery was abolished , and the  मुश्किल  Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and  guaranteeing   अधिकारों  to  the  freed slaves began  .
in  the 1860 presidential  चुनाव  , Republicans  ,  led by  अब्राहम  Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories  .
Lincoln  जीती  , but  पहले  his inauguration  on  March  4  , 1861 , seven cotton-based  स्लेव   राज्य   formed   the  Confederacy .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक  President James  बुकानन  and  the  incoming  republicans  rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would  नहीं   initiate   सिविल   युद्ध   .
आठ   बाकी  slave states  जारी  to reject  काल्स  for secession .
confederate   शक्तियां   जब्त  numerous federal  दुर्गों   भीतर  territory claimed  by  the  confederacy  .
A Peace Conference  विफल  to find a compromise  ,  and both sides  prepared   लिये   युद्ध   .
The  confederates  assumed that European  देशों   यहूद   so   निर्भर  on `` King  कपास  `` that they would intervene  ;   none  did and none recognized the  नई   confederate  States of America  .
Hostilities began  on  April  12   ,  1861 ,  जब   confederate  forces  fired   upon  Fort  sumter  , a key fort  आयोजित   by  Union  सैनिकों  in South  कैरोलिना  .
Lincoln called for  प्रत्येक  state  to  provide troops  to   retake   the   फोर्ट   ;  consequently  ,  four more slave states  joined   the  Confederacy , bringing  उनके  total to eleven  .
The Union soon controlled the border states  और  established  a  naval blockade  कि   अबोध  the southern  अर्थव्यवस्था  .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive  in  1861–62  .
the  autumn 1862 Confederate  अभियान  into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam  ,   dissuading  British intervention .
Lincoln issued  the   emancipation  Proclamation  ,  which  बना  ending slavery a  युद्ध  goal .
to  the west , by summer 1862  the  Union destroyed the Confederate river navy  ,   तब  much of their western armies  ,   और  the Union  at   vicksburg  split the Confederacy  in   दो  at  the  Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E.  ली   's   confederate  incursion north ended at  the   बैटल  of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to  ulysses  S.  ग्रान्ट  command of  सब   संघ  armies in 1864  .
in   the   पश्चिमी  Theater ,  विलियम  T. Sherman drove  ईस्ट  to  कैप्चर   अटलांटा  and marched  to  the sea ,  destroying   confederate   अवसंरचना  along the  रास्ता  .
The Union  marshaled  the resources and manpower to attack  the   confederacy  from all  दिशानिर्देश  , and could afford to fight  लड़ाइयों  of attrition  through  the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate  पूंजी  .
The  defending  Confederate  फौज   विफल  , leading to  ली   's   आत्मसमर्पण   to  Grant  at  Appomattox Court House on  अप्रैल   9  ,  1865   .
the  American Civil War  थी  one of the earliest  सच्चा   औद्योगिक  wars .
Railroads  ,   the   टेलीग्राफ  ,  steamships  , and  mass-produced   हथियार   यहूद   employed   extensively  .
The  mobilization  of civilian factories , mines  ,  shipyards , banks  ,  transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World  युद्ध   i  .
it   remains  the  deadliest  war in  अमरीकी  history  ,  resulting  in  the  मौतों  of an  अनुमानित   750,000  soldiers and an  undetermined  number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston  estimates  the death toll at  टेन  percent of all Northern males 20–45 years  बूढ़ा  ,  और   30  percent of  सब   दक्षिणी  white males aged 18–40 .
आलू  bread is  a  form  of  bread in which potato replaces a portion  of   the   नियमित   गेहूं   आटा   .
It is cooked  in   a  variety of methods , including  by  baking it on  a  hot griddle  or  pan , or in  an   ओवन   .
it   may   be  leavened or unleavened  ,   और  may have a variety  of  other ingredients baked  into  it .
The ratio of potato to wheat flour  varies   significantly  from recipe to recipe ,  साथ   कुछ  recipes having  a  majority of potato  ,   और  others  having  a  बहुमत   of   गेहूं   आटा   .
Some recipes  कॉल  for mashed potatoes , with others  कॉलिंग  for dehydrated potato flakes .
It is available  as   a  commercial product in many  देशों  ,  साथ  similar variations in ingredients  ,   कुकिंग   विधि  , and other variables .
The Pacific  समय  Zone  observes   मानक  time by subtracting eight  घंटों  from Coordinated  सार्वभौमिक  Time ( ) .
The  क्लॉक  time in  इस   मण्डल  is  आधारित  on the mean  सौर  time of the 120th meridian west of  the   ग्रीनविच  Observatory .
During  daylight  saving time  ,   इसके  time offset is .
In the United  राज्य  and Canada ,  इस   समय  zone is  generically   पुकारा  Pacific Time  (  PT )  .
Specifically ,  it  is Pacific Standard  समय  ( PST )  जब   observing  standard  समय   (   शीत  )  ,   और  Pacific Daylight Time ( PDT )  जब  observing daylight saving time  (  summer )  .
सबसे  of  कनाडा  uses daylight saving  समय   .
In  मैक्सिको  the UTC−8  समय   मण्डल  is known as the Northwest  मण्डल   ,  which is  synchronized  with the  u.S.  PDT daylight saving schedule .
The  largest  city  in  the Pacific Time  मण्डल   is  Los Angeles in California  इससे  USA ; the city 's metropolitan area  is  the largest in the zone .
The zone  is  one hour ahead of the  अलास्का  Time Zone ,  एक   घंटा  behind the  पहाड़  Time Zone  और  three hours behind the  पूर्वी  Time  मण्डल  .
Stereo 8 ,  commonly   ज्ञात   as   the  eight-track cartridge  ,   eight-track  tape , or simply eight-track ,  is  a magnetic  टेप  sound recording technology  .
it  was popular in the United States from  the  mid-1960s  through  to  the  early 1980s  ,  but was relatively unknown in  अनेक   यूरोपीय  countries .
it  was , however , very  लोकप्रिय  in the United  किंगडम  during this period  .
Stereo  8  was  निर्मित  in 1964  by  a consortium led  by   विधेयक  Lear of Lear Jet Corporation ,  साथ   साथ  Ampex  ,  Ford  मोटर   कम्पनी  ,  सामान्य  Motors , Motorola , and  आरसीए   विक्टर  Records  (  RCA ) .
It  थी   a  further  विकास  of the similar Stereo-Pak four-track cartridge  निर्मित  by Earl `` Madman '' Muntz .
A later  quadraphonic  version  of  the format was announced  by  RCA in April 1970  और  first known as Quad-8 ,  तब  later changed  to   बस  Q8  .
Ramesses II (  1303  BC –  जुलाई   or   अगस्त   1213  BC  ;  Egyptian : ,  alternatively  transcribed  as   rameses  and Ramses or  )  ,  referred  to as Ramesses the Great , was the  तीसरा  Egyptian pharaoh  (   reigned  1279 BC – 1213 BC  )  of the Nineteenth dynasty .
He is often regarded as the greatest , most celebrated , and most powerful pharaoh  of  the Egyptian Empire .
His successors and later Egyptians called him the `` Great  पूर्वज  . ''
रामेसेस  II led several military expeditions into the Levant  ,   re-asserting  Egyptian  कंट्रोल  over Canaan .
he  also led expeditions to the south ,  into  Nubia , commemorated in inscriptions at Beit el-Wali and Gerf Hussein .
at  age fourteen , Ramesses was appointed Prince  रीजेंट  by  उसके  father Seti I .
he   is  believed  to  have taken  the  throne  in   उसके  late teens  और  is known to have ruled Egypt  इससे   1279  BC  to   1213  BC for 66 years and  2  months , according to both Manetho and Egypt  's  contemporary  ऐतिहासिक  records .
he  was once said to  have  lived to be  99  years old , but  it  is  अधिक  likely that he died in  उसके  90th  or   91st   साल  .
If he became Pharaoh  in  1279 BC  as  most  egyptologists   आज  believe , he  होता   have  assumed the  सिंहासन  on  may  31  ,  1279  bc  , based on  उसके  known accession  तिथि  of III Shemu day  27  .
Ramesses II celebrated an  unprecedented   14   sed   त्यौहार  (  the   पहला  held  बाद  thirty years of  a   pharaoh  's  शासनकाल   ,  and then every  तीन  years ) during his  reign—more   than  any other  pharaoh   .
On  उसके   मौत   ,   he  was  दफ्न  in a tomb in the Valley of  the   किंग्स  ;  उसके  body was later  स्थानांतरित   to  a royal  संचय  where  it   थी  discovered in 1881 , and  is   अभी   on   प्रदर्शक  in the  कायरो  Museum  .
The early part of his  शासनकाल  was focused  on   भवन   शहरों  ,  मंदिरों   और   स्मारक  .
He  स्थापित  the city of Pi-Ramesses  in  the  nile  Delta as his new capital and  प्रमुख  base for his campaigns in  सीरियाई  .
इस  city was built  on  the remains of the  नगर  of  avaris  ,  the   पूंजी  of the Hyksos when they took  over  ,  और  was the location of the main Temple of Set .
He is also known  as  Ozymandias in the Greek sources , from a transliteration  into   यूनानी  of a  भाग   of  Ramesses 's  सिंहासन  name  ,   ,  ``  ra   's  mighty truth , chosen of Ra '' .
the   टेक्सास   रेंजरों  are a professional baseball team located in  the   dallas-fort  Worth Metroplex  ,   आधारित  in Arlington  ,  Texas .
the   रेंजरों  franchise  is   फिलहाल  a member  of   the  Western Division  of  Major  लीग  Baseball 's  अमरीकी  League  .
चूंकि  ,  the  Rangers  have   निभाई  in  रेंजरों  Ballpark in  आर्लिंगटन  in Arlington , Texas  .
The team  's  name is borrowed from  the  famous  विधि  enforcement  एजेंसी   of  the  वही   नाम   .
The franchise was established in  1961  by the name  of  the Washington Senators , an expansion team awarded  to  Washington  ,   d.C.   ,   बाद  the city  's   पहला  ballclub , the original Washington Senators  ,  moved to  मिनेसोटा  and  became  the Twins .
बाद  the season , the new Senators moved  to  Arlington , Texas ,  और   debuted  as the Rangers  the  following  वसन्त  .
The  टेक्सास  Rangers Baseball Club has made  छह   दिखावे   in  the  एमएलबी  postseason ,  सब  following division championships ,  in   1996  , 1998 , 1999 ,  2010   ,  2011  और  2012 .
In 2010 , the Rangers advanced past the Division  श्रेणी  for the  पहला   समय   ,  defeating the Tampa Bay Rays .
टेक्सास   तब  brought home their first  अमरीकी  League  pennant   बाद   धड़कन  the New York Yankees  in   छह  games .
In the 2010 World Series ,  the  franchise 's first , the Rangers  गिरी   to  the San Francisco  दिग्गज  in five  खेल  .
Their lone victory made  उन्हें  the first Texas  टोली  to win  a  World  श्रेणी  game , the Houston Astros having been  swept  in their 2005 World Series appearance .
They repeated as  अमरीकी  League  champions   the  following  साल   ,   तब  lost the 2011  संसार   श्रेणी  to the St.  लुई   कार्डिनल्स  in seven games .
Gaius  जूलियस  Caesar (  ,  July 100  bc  – 15 March  44   bc  ) was a  रोमन  general , statesman , Consul  और  notable author of Latin prose  .
he  played  a   नाजुक  role  in   the   कार्यक्रम  that led to  the   निधन  of the Roman Republic  और  the rise of  the  Roman  साम्राज्य  .
In 60 BC  ,  Caesar , Crassus and Pompey  formed  a political alliance that was to dominate Roman politics for several years .
उनके  attempts to amass  शक्ति  through  populist   tactics   यहूद  opposed by  the  conservative elite within  the  Roman Senate , among them Cato the Younger with  the  frequent support  of  Cicero  .
Caesar 's conquest of  gaul  ,  समाप्त  by 51  bc  , extended Rome 's  territory  to the  अंग्रेज़ी  Channel and the Rhine .
Caesar became the first  रोमन  general to cross  दोनो  when he built a bridge  आरपार  the  राइन  and conducted  the  first  आक्रमण  of Britain  .
ये  achievements granted him  बेमेल   सैन्य  power and threatened to  ग्रहण  the standing of Pompey  ,  who had realigned himself with  the  Senate after the  मौत  of Crassus in  53  BC .
With the  gallic  Wars concluded  ,   the   सीनेट  ordered Caesar to  lay  down his  सैन्य  command and return to Rome .
सीज़र   refused  ,  और   चिह्नित   उसके  defiance in  49  BC by crossing the Rubicon with  a   लीजन  , leaving his province and illegally entering Roman  territory  under arms .
सिविल  war resulted , from which he emerged  as   the  unrivaled leader of Rome .
After  assuming  control  of   सरकारी  , Caesar began a  कार्यक्रम  of social  और  governmental reforms ,  सहित  the creation  of  the Julian calendar .
He centralised  the   अफसरशाही   of  the Republic  और   थी   आखिरकार  proclaimed `` dictator  in   perpetuity   ''  .
But the  underlying   राजनैतिक  conflicts had  नहीं  been  resolved   ,  and on the Ides  of  March ( 15  कूच  )  44  BC , Caesar was  assassinated   by  a group  of  senators led by  मार्कस   junius  Brutus .
A  नई  series  of  civil  युद्धों  broke  आउट  , and the constitutional government of the Republic  थी  never  लौटी   .
Caesar 's adopted heir  octavian  ,  बाद   ज्ञात  as  augustus  ,  रोज़  to sole power , and the  era  of  the  Roman Empire  began  .
Much of Caesar 's  जीवन   is   ज्ञात   इससे  his  अपना   खाते  of his military campaigns ,  और  from other  समकालीन  sources ,  मुख्यतः  the letters  और  speeches of Cicero and the  ऐतिहासिक  writings  of  Sallust .
The later biographies of Caesar by  suetonius  and Plutarch  हैं   भी   प्रमुख   स्त्रोत  .
Caesar is deemed to be one  of  the greatest  सैन्य  commanders of history  .
Linguistic map of  सीरियल   ,  Cameroon ,  और  Benin .
Sign  in  English , outside the University of Lagos
There are hundreds  of   भाषाएं  spoken in Nigeria .
The  प्रमुख  languages are  योरूबा   ,  Hausa ,  इग्बो  , Edo , Fulfulde , Kanuri  ,   और  Ibibio  .
The official language of Nigeria ,  अंग्रेज़ी   ,  the former  औपनिवेशिक  language , was chosen  to  facilitate  the  cultural  और   भाषाई  unity  of  the  देश  .
अंग्रेज़ी  , however , remains an exclusive  बचाना  of the country  's  urban elite , and is not widely spoken  in   ग्रामीण  areas , which comprise  तीन  quarters  of  the countries population .
सीरियल  's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a  पूरे  , encompassing three major  अफ़्रीकी   भाषाएं  families  :  Afroasiatic , Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo .
Nigeria also has  अनेक  as-yet unclassified  भाषाएं  ,  ऐसे   as   cen  Tuum , which may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior  to  the  स्प्रेड  of  the  current language  परिवारों  .
Daucus carota ( common  names  include wild carrot ,  (   uk  )  बर्ड   's  nest ,  बिशप   's  lace  ,   और  Queen Anne 's lace ( North America )  )  is a  flowering  plant in the  परिवार  Apiaceae ,  देशी  to temperate regions of Europe  ,   दक्षिणपश्चिम   एशिया  and naturalised  to  North America and Australia  .
Domesticated carrots are  cultivars   of  a subspecies  ,  Daucus carota subsp .  sativus   .
In the  संयुक्त   राज्य  , the title of  संघीय  judge  प्रायः  means a  न्यायधीश  appointed  by  the President of the  संयुक्त  States and confirmed  by   the  United States Senate  pursuant  to the  नियुक्ति  Clause in Article II  of  the  संयुक्त  States Constitution  .
In  जोड  to the Supreme Court  of   the  United States , whose  अस्तित्व  and  कुछ  aspects of whose  क्षेत्राधिकार   हैं   परे  the  संवैधानिक  power of  कॉंग्रेस  to  alter  , acts of Congress  have  established  13  courts  of  appeals ( also called  ``  circuit courts '' ) with appellate  क्षेत्राधिकार   over  different regions of the  संयुक्त  States , and 94  संयुक्त  States district  न्यायालयों  .
प्रत्येक   न्यायधीश  appointed to  ऐसे   a  court may be categorized as a federal judge  ;   ऐसे  positions include the Chief Justice and  संबद्ध  Justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals , and district  न्यायाधीशों  of  the  United States district courts .
All  of   ये  judges  वर्णित  thus  दूर  are  referred  to sometimes  as  `` Article III  न्यायाधीशों   ''  because  वे  exercise  the  judicial power  vested  in the judicial  शाखा   of  the  संघीय   सरकारी  by Article  iii   of  the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the  अदालत  of International Trade exercise  न्यायिक  power pursuant to  आलेख  III  .
Other judges serving  in  the federal courts  ,  including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges  ,  are also  sometimes  referred to as  ``  federal judges  ''  ; however , they are neither appointed by the  अध्यक्ष  nor confirmed  by  the Senate  ,  and  उनके  power derives from  आलेख   i  instead .
See Article I and Article III tribunals  .
Nelly Kim Furtado  (  born  दिसम्बर  2  ,  1978 )  is  a Canadian singer  ,   songwriter   और  actress .
She has sold 20 million albums  विश्वव्यापी  and  अधिक  20  लाख  singles , bringing her  कुल   बिक्री  to  over  40  लाख   रिकॉर्ड  around the  संसार  .
Furtado  पहला  gained fame with  उसके  debut album , Whoa , Nelly !
, which  शाखित   दो  successful  singles  , `` I 'm  जैसे   a  Bird ``  और  `` Turn  बंद  the Light `` .  ``
i  'm  जैसे  A Bird  ''  won a 2001 Juno Award for Single of the  साल   और   a  2002  ग्रैमी  Award for Best Female Pop Vocal  प्रदर्शन  .
in  2003 ,  फ़र्टाडो   released  Folklore  ,  which  उत्पादित  three international singles—  ``  Powerless (  कह  What You Want )  ``  ,  ``  Try  ``  and  ``  Força  ``  .
तीन  years later  वो  released  ढीला   ,  a  विश्वव्यापी   वाणिज्यिक  success  .
the   एल्बम  spawned four  number-one   हिट्स  : ``  promiscuous   ``  , `` Maneater `` , ``  कह   it  Right ``  और  ``  सब  Good Things (  आइये  to  an   समाप्त  ) `` .
After  a  three-year  ब्रेक  , she released her  पहला   full-length   स्पेनी   एल्बम  , Mi  योजना  , and Furtado received  a  Latin Grammy for Best  मादा  Pop Vocal Album  .
In 2012 , Furtado 's  चौथी  English-language  स्टुडियो  album , The Spirit  अविनाशी   थी  released .
Furtado 's  कार्य   रै  earned  उसके   numerous   पुरस्कार   और  accolades , including 2 Grammy Awards  ,  10 Juno Awards , 3 MuchMusic Video Awards and a star  on  Canada 's Walk  of  Fame .
जीव  of the  रात्रि  is the  दसवाँ   स्टुडियो  album by  चुंबन  .
it  is  the  band 's last  एल्बम  for  कासाब्लांका  Records , the only label the group had ever recorded for at  कि  point  .
the  album  थी  dedicated to the memory of Casablanca founder and early Kiss supporter Neil Bogart  ,  who  था  died  of  cancer  दौरान  the  रिकॉर्डिंग  sessions .
It is  भी  the band 's last album recorded with Ace  frehley  credited as an  आधिकारिक  member ( until 1998  's  Psycho  सर्कस  ) , and  इसके  first album  साथ  Vinnie  विंसेंट   as  the  initially  uncredited lead guitarist (  विंसेंट  would later be credited , but not featured pictorially on the cover , of 1985  's  reissue  of   the  album ) .
Touch is a crucial means of receiving  सूचना  .
This  फ़ोटो   shows   tactile  markings  identifying  stairs for  visually   impaired  people .
the   somatosensory  system is  a  diverse sensory system comprising  the   receptors  and processing centres to produce  the   संवेदी  modalities such as  टच   ,  temperature , proprioception (  देह  position ) , and nociception  (  pain ) .
the  sensory  receptors  cover  the   स्किन  and epithelia , skeletal muscles , bones and joints ,  आतंरिक  organs , and the cardiovascular  प्रणाली  .
While touch is considered one  of  the five  परंपरागत   होश  , the impression of touch is formed  इससे  several modalities .
In medicine , the  colloquial  term `` touch '' is  प्रायः  replaced with ``  दैहिक  senses  ''   to  better reflect the variety  of  mechanisms involved .
Somatic  होश  are sometimes referred  to  as  somesthetic   होश  , with  the  understanding  कि  somesthesis includes touch ,  proprioception  and ( depending on usage  )   भी  haptic perception  .
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using different receptors  :  thermoreceptors , nociceptors  ,  mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors  .
Transmission of information  इससे  the receptors passes via sensory nerves through tracts in the spinal  cord  and into the brain .
प्रसंस्करण  primarily occurs in the primary somatosensory area in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex .
The cortical  homunculus  was devised by Wilder Penfield .
At its  सरलतम  , the system  works  when  कार्यकलाप  in a  संवेदी  neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus such as heat ;  इस  signal  आखिरकार  passes to an area in the brain uniquely  attributed  to that area  on   the   body—this   allows  the processed stimulus to be  लगा  at the correct  स्थान  .
The point-to-point mapping  of  the body  सतहों   in   the  brain  is   पुकारा  a  homunculus  and  is  essential in the creation of  a  body image .
This brain-surface  (   ``  cortical  ''  )  मैप  is not  अपरिवर्तनीय  , however  .
नाटकीय  shifts can occur in response  to  stroke or  चोट   .
Magnolia is a large  genus  of about 210 flowering plant species in the subfamily  magnolioideae  of the family  magnoliaceae  .
It is named  बाद   फ्रेंच  botanist  पियरे   magnol  .
Magnolia is an ancient genus .
appearing  before bees did  ,   the   पुष्प  evolved to  प्रोत्साहित  pollination  by  beetles .
to   avoid   क्षति  from  pollinating  beetles ,  the  carpels  of  Magnolia  पुष्प   हैं  extremely  मुश्किल  .
Fossilised specimens of Magnolia acuminata have  महरूम  found dating to  20   लाख  years ago , and of plants  identifiably  belonging to the Magnoliaceae  डेटिंग   to   95  million  सालो   पहले  .
another  aspect  of  Magnolias that is considered to represent an  ancestral  state  is  that the  पुष्प  bud is enclosed in  a  bract rather than in sepals ;  the  perianth  भाग   हैं  undifferentiated and  पुकारा   tepals  rather  than  distinct sepals and petals .
magnolia  shares the tepal characteristic with several other flowering plants near the base of the flowering plant lineage  ऐसे  as Amborella and Nymphaea ( as well as  साथ  many  अधिक   recently  derived plants such as Lilium ) .
The  प्राकृतिक   दायरा   of  Magnolia species is  a   disjunct   वितरण  , with a main centre  in  east  और   southeast  Asia and a secondary  केन्द्र   in   पूर्वी  North  अमेरिका  ,  सेंट्रल  America ,  the  West Indies ,  और   कुछ  species in South America .
thumb
`` White Christmas '' is an Irving Berlin song reminiscing  परिचय  an old-fashioned  क्रिसमस  setting .
According to the Guinness  किताब   of   संसार  Records  ,  the version sung by Bing Crosby  is  the  best-selling  single  of  all time  ,   साथ  estimated  बिक्री  in excess of 50 million  नक़ल  worldwide .
Accounts vary as to when  और   जहाँ  Berlin wrote  the  song  .
एक  story is that he  लिखा  it in 1940 , in warm La Quinta , California  ,  while staying at  the  La Quinta  होटल   ,  a  बारंबार  Hollywood retreat also favored  by   writer-producer   फ़्रैंक  Capra  ,  although the Arizona  biltmore  also claims  the  song  थी  written there  .
He often stayed up all night writing  —  he told his secretary , `` Grab your pen and  लो   bas   इस  song .
I just wrote the best  सोंग  I 've ever written  —  heck  ,  I  बस  wrote the best  सोंग  that  anybody   's  ever written ! ''
cross-country  skiing ( or XC skiing ) is  a  form  of   स्की  touring in which  भागीदार  propel  themselves  across snow-covered terrain  using  skis and poles .
the   कार्यकलाप   is  popular in many places with  विशाल  snowfields , primarily  उत्तरी  Europe  ,  Canada , and  अलास्का  .
cross-country   स्कीइंग   is  part  of  the Nordic skiing  खेल  family , which includes ski  कूद  , Nordic  संयुक्त   (  cross-country skiing and ski jumping ) , Biathlon ( skiing  और   राइफल   marksmanship   )  and  ski-orienteering  (  जिससे   शामिल  map navigation along snow trails  और   ट्रैक्स   )  .
Cross-country skiing is the  आधुनिक   स्टाइल  of skiing that most resembles prehistoric skiing , particularly when done  in  the backcountry .
it   is  also related to Telemark skiing  .
a  use tax in United States  is  complementary  to  sales tax which means  ,  if you buy a Taxable product/services without paying any Sales tax  to   विक्रेता   ,   तुम   owe  use tax .
तुम   जरूर   स्वः  assess  उपयोग  tax and  अदा  it directly to  the   राज्य  where the  उत्पाद  were consumed or services were rendered .
Use  कर   typically  is  a  tax on consumption  लकिन  if you buy an  मद  ( without  paying  sales tax  )  and store  it  in  अपना   गोदाम   initially  , use tax applies to that location where goods were  भंडारित   .
बाद  on when  the  final consumption takes  प्लेस  at some other location , you are required to pay  the  differential of tax  रेट  to  the  jurisdiction of ultimate place of  खपत  .
This really means  कि  you do n't have  to   अदा  both Sales Tax  as  well as Use Tax on one transaction .
it  is only one or the other that you  हैं  required  to   अदा  on  खरीदें  of  taxable   products/services  .
If  विक्रेता  does n't charge any  बिक्री  tax on  इसके  invoice then  it  is the obligation  of  the  खरीदार  to self assess  उपयोग  tax  और  pay it  to   the  appropriate Jurisdication  .
उपयोग  Tax  is  generally charged at the same tax rate of  बिक्री  Tax  लकिन  in  कुछ   राज्य  the tax rate  is  different  .
उपयोग  tax is  भी  termed as ``  खपत  Tax '' or `` Consumer  उपयोग  Tax ''  .
a  use tax  is   a  type of excise tax levied in  the  United States by numerous state governments .
it  is  assessed  upon tangible personal property  खरीदा   by  a resident of the assessing state for  उपयोग  , storage ,  or   खपत  in  कि  state (  नहीं  for resale  )  , regardless of  जहाँ   the  purchase took place  .
If a resident of a state makes a purchase  भीतर   उसके  home state  ,  full sales tax is  सशुल्क  at the time of the transaction .
The  उपयोग  tax  applies   जब  a  निवासी  of the  assessing  state  purchases  an item that  is  not  विषय  to his home  राज्य  's sales  कर  .
Usually , this is due to out-of-state purchases ,  as  well as ordering  वस्तुएं  through the mail ,  by  phone  ,   or  over the Internet  इससे  other states .
the  use tax is  typically  assessed  at  the  वही  rate as the sales tax that would  have   महरूम  owed (  if  any ) had the same  goods  been purchased  in  the state  of   निवास   .
For example  ,  a resident of Massachusetts , with a  6.25   %   ``   बिक्री   और   उपयोग  tax '' on  निश्चित  goods and  सेवाएं   ,  purchases non-exempt goods or services in  नई   हैम्पशायर   लिये  use ,  भंडार  or  अन्य  consumption  in  Massachusetts .
Under New  हैम्पशायर  law , the New Hampshire  विक्रेता  collects no sales taxes on  the  goods , but the Massachusetts purchaser/user must still pay 6.25 %  of  the  बिक्री  price  सीधे  to the  विभाग  of Revenue in  मैसाचुसेट्स  as a use  कर  .
If the same goods are purchased in a  us   राज्य  that  करता  collect  बिक्री  tax for such goods  at   समय  of purchase  ,   whatever  taxes were paid by  the  purchaser to that state can be deducted ( as a tax credit )  इससे  the 6.25 % owed  लिये  subsequent use ,  भंडार  or  खपत  in Massachusetts .
With few exceptions  ,  no state  's  vendors will charge  the  native state 's sales tax on goods shipped  आउट   of  state , meaning  सब   goods  ordered from  out-of-state   हैं  essentially free of sales  कर  .
the  purchaser  is  therefore required to declare and  अदा   the  use tax to his home state on  ये  ordered goods .
The assessing jurisdiction  may  make the use  कर  payable annually  ,  but some states  आवश्यकता   a  monthly payment .
For example , where  a   वर्मांट   निवासी   रै   नहीं  paid at  तनिक  6 %  बिक्री  tax on property  brought  in for use in the state , Vermont law requires filing a tax return  (  Form  su-452  and payment )  by  the 20th  दिन   of  the month following non-exempt purchases to  avoid   a  $ 50  लेट  fee , a 5 %  दंड   प्रति  month , to a maximum of 25 %  ,   प्लस  statutory interest on the unpaid tax and penalties .
Typical exemptions include  purchases   by  charitable  non-profit   संगठन  or governmental  एजेंसियों  , purchases for resale  in   कॉमर्स   ,  and purchases via `` casual sales '' by individuals not in the ordinary course of business .
Also  नोट  that  वहीँ  are thousands of tax jurisdictions in the U.S.  और   अनेक  have  ever-changing   सूचियाँ  of  विशिष्ट  types of goods  और   सेवाएं  that  हैं  not  taxable   .
as  an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires payment  of   कर  on ``  pre-written  '' ( not custom ) software purchased and downloaded over the Internet  लिये  installation and use in  मैसाचुसेट्स  , regardless  of  where it originates .
however  , the  वास्तविक  use  of  the same  तन्त्र  downloaded by a Massachusetts resident to a server in another state remains a non-taxed `` service '' .
in  contrast , Arkansas generally does not tax anything delivered  over  the Internet ( such as downloaded  तन्त्र  or  म्यूज़िक  ) , except VoIP  जिससे   is   specifically   पारिभाषित   as  taxable `` telecommunications services '' .
तन्त्र  ( pre-written or custom )  ``   वितरित  thru a tangible medium '' ( i.e. , on disk ) in Arkansas  is  taxable even if ordered  ऑनलाइन  , except `` custom  तन्त्र  for a particular customer ''  जिससे  is  non-taxable  `` programming services  ''   भी  if  वितरित  on a disk  .
in  most cases , this complexity is part of  the  underlying sales tax  कानून   ;  but  जबकि  a brick-and-mortar store has to deal  साथ  only the sales tax laws  of  its own location  ,  remote sellers have  to  deal  साथ  the use  कर  laws of many jurisdictions—up  to  every US state  और  locality that  प्रकृती  them ,  if  the  कम्पनी   रै   a  presence or `` nexus  ''  in  प्रत्येक   राज्य  ( as  विशाल   ``   brick-and-mortar  '' sellers like Wal-Mart  और  Best  ख़रीदे   do  )  .
In  आयुर्विज्ञान  , pulmonary hypertension ( PH )  is   an  increase of  रक्त  pressure in  the  pulmonary artery  ,  pulmonary vein , or  pulmonary   capillaries  , together known as the lung  vasculature   ,   अग्रणी  to  shortness  of  साँस  , dizziness , fainting  ,  and  अन्य  symptoms , all of  जिससे   हैं  exacerbated by exertion .
pulmonary  hypertension can be a  कठोर   बीमारी   साथ  a markedly decreased exercise  सहिष्णुता   और   दिल   विफलता   .
it  was  पहला  identified by  dr.  Ernst von Romberg  in   1891  .
according   to   the  most  हाल   वर्गीकरण  ,  it  can be one of  पाँच  different  प्रकार  : arterial  ,   venous  ,  hypoxic  ,  thromboembolic   or  miscellaneous .
सही
सही
sanuk   ,  a  प्रभाग   of  Deckers Outdoor Corporation ,  is  a footwear brand based in Southern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Sanuk , the Thai  शब्द  for fun  ,  was founded by Southern California native Jeff  kelley  when he started  बनाना  sandals out of indoor-outdoor  पिंजरा   .
the   पहला  product created was green  carpeted   और  entitled  the  `` Fur Real ''  बाद  one  दूकान   मालिक  asked  if  the novelty  चन्दन   थी   ``  For Real .  ''
The  फर  Real first became  a   runaway  hit through boutique stores and not the intended surf shops  .
the  novelty act was followed up by a sandal wrapped  in  wire mesh  ,  a  तेंदुआ  print version , and styles made out  of   a  poncho material in a  किस्में  of  रंगों   .
Sanuk has grown to include style options for  मेन  ,  महिलाओं   और  youth  और   is   वितरित  across  the  United  राज्य   और   in   over   50  countries throughout Europe , Asia  ,  South America and Australia .
Sanuk centers itself around a  धनात्मक  lifestyle  वकालत  the slogan  ,   ``  Smile ,  pass   it  on ! `` .
In computer science , array programming  भाषाएं  ( also known  as  vector or multidimensional languages  )  generalize operations on  scalars  to apply transparently  to  vectors , matrices  ,  and  उच्चतर   आयामी  arrays  .
सरणी  programming primitives concisely express broad ideas about data  हेरफेर  .
The  स्तर  of  conciseness  can  be   नाटकीय  in certain cases :  it  is not  uncommon   to   ढूँढें  array programming language one-liners that  आवश्यकता   अधिक  than  a  couple of  पृष्ठों  of Java code .
apl  , designed by  केन  Iverson , was  the  first programming language to provide array  प्रोग्रामिंग  capabilities .
The mnemonic APL  refers  to the title  of   उसके  seminal book ``  a  Programming Language '' and not  to  arrays  प्रति   se  . Iverson  's   योगदान  to rigor  और  clarity was  संभवतः   अधिक  important than the simple extension of  आयाम   to  functions  .
In  the  United States an annuity contract is  निर्मित  when an insured party  ,  usually  an  individual ,  pays  a life insurance company a single premium  कि  will later  be  distributed back to  the   insured  party over  समय  .
Annuity contracts traditionally  provide  a  गारंटी  distribution of  आय  over time  ,  such  as   via  fixed  भुगतान  , until  the   मौत  of  the  person or persons  नामित  in the  अनुबंध  or until a final date , whichever comes first  .
However ,  the  majority of  आधुनिक  annuity  ग्राहक   उपयोग  annuities only  to   accumulate  funds  फ़्री  of income and  पूंजी  gains taxes and to later take lump-sum  withdrawals  without using the guaranteed-income-for-life  विशेषता   .
President Barack  ओबामा   .
Barack Obama with  उसके  first Supreme  अदालत   nominee   ,  Sonia Sotomayor  .
following   is  a list  of   सब  United States  संघीय  judges appointed by President  बराक  Obama during his presidency  .
as  of April 30 ,  2013  , 187 Obama nominees to Article III judgeships have been  पुष्टि  by the United States Senate , namely  दो  Justices to the Supreme Court  of   the   संयुक्त  States ,  35  judges to the United States  न्यायालयों  of appeals  और   150   न्यायाधीशों  to the United States district  न्यायालयों  .
25   further  nominations are  फिलहाल  awaiting Senate action .
There  हैं  currently 16  vacancies  on  the   संयुक्त  States Courts of Appeals , 67  vacancies   on   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  district courts and 22 additional federal judiciary vacancies that  हैं  anticipated to  occur  before  the  end of  ओबामा  's  दूसरी  term .
Obama has not  बना  any recess  नियुक्ति   to   the  federal  न्यायालयों  .
ओबामा  has made two nominations to  the   संयुक्त  States  अदालत   of   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Trade , an Article III  ट्रिब्यूनल  .
Obama  भी  designated sitting judge  एमिली  C. Hewitt  of   the  United States Court  of   संघीय  Claims , an Article  i  court  ,  to be Chief  न्यायधीश  of that court  .
इस   is  a list of  एयरपोर्ट   in  Mexico , sorted  by  location .
Mexico  रै  about 1,834 airports  ,  ranking  2nd  in  क्रमांक  of airports in North America , and 3rd  in  the world .
Only major National and International  एयरपोर्ट  are  दिखाया  .
Agency  कर्ज़  also  ज्ञात   as   an   एजेंसी  bond is  a  security , usually a bond ,  जारी   by  a U.S. government-sponsored agency .
the  offerings  of   ये  agencies are backed  लकिन  not  गारंटी   by  the US  सरकारी  since  the   एजेंसियों  are private entities .
Some prominent issuers of these securities  हैं   छात्र  Loan Marketing Association ( Sallie  mae   )   ,   संघीय  National Mortgage Association ( Fannie  mae  )  और  Federal Home Loan  बंधक   निगम  ( Freddie Mac  )   .
एजेंसी  securities are usually exempt from state  और   लोकल  taxes , but not federal tax  .
एजेंसी  debt is  भी   पुकारा   an  agency security .
The Susquehanna Steam  इलेक्ट्रिक   स्टेशन   ,   a   खौलते   जल  reactor .
the  reactors are located inside the rectangular containment buildings towards the front of the cooling towers .
Three nuclear-powered  अमरीकी   warships   ,  ( top to  नीचे  ) nuclear cruisers USS Bainbridge and  uss  Long  बीच   साथ   uss  Enterprise the first  nuclear-powered  aircraft  वाहक  in 1964 .
Crew members are  स्पेलिंग  out  आइंस्टीन   's   mass-energy  equivalence formula E  =  mc2  on  the flight  डेक  .
The  रूसी   nuclear-powered   हिमभंजक  NS Yamal on  a  1994 joint expedition with the NSF .
नाभिकीय  power  is  the  उपयोग  of sustained nuclear fission  to  generate heat  और   विद्युत  .
Nuclear power  पौधे   provided  about 5.7 % of  the  world  's  energy  और   13  %  of   the  world  's   विद्युत  ,  in  2012 .
in  2013  ,   the  IAEA report that there  हैं  437 operational nuclear  शक्ति  reactors  (   हालांकि   नहीं   सब  are producing electricity ) , in 31  देशों  .
In addition , there are approximately 140  नवल  vessels using nuclear propulsion  in  operation  ,  powered by  कुछ  180  रिएक्टरों   .
वहीँ  is an ongoing debate about the  उपयोग  of nuclear energy .
Proponents , such as the  संसार  Nuclear Association ,  the  IAEA  और  Environmentalists for Nuclear  उर्जा   contend  that nuclear power is  a  sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions .
Opponents , such  as  Greenpeace International and NIRS ,  मानना  that nuclear power poses many threats to people and the environment .
Nuclear power plant accidents include the Chernobyl disaster (  1986   )  , Fukushima Daiichi nuclear  विपत्ति  (  2011  ) ,  और   the  Three Mile Island  दुर्घटना   (  1979 )  .
वहीँ   have  also been  कुछ  nuclear-powered submarine mishaps  .
Research into safety  सुधार  is  continuing  and nuclear  संलयन  ,  believed  to be  safer   ,  may be used in the future  .
as   of  2012 , according to the IAEA  ,  worldwide there  यहूद  68 civil  नाभिकीय   शक्ति  reactors  अंतर्गत  construction in  15  countries .
In the US the  पंक्तियां  of almost half  इसके   रिएक्टरों  have been extended to  60  years , and plans to build  another   दर्जन  are under serious consideration  .
However , Japan 's 2011 Fukushima  daiichi   नाभिकीय  disaster  prompted  a rethink of nuclear energy  नीति  in many  देशों   .
जर्मनी   decided  to  बंद   सब  its reactors  by  2022 , and Italy has banned nuclear  शक्ति  .
Following  फुकुशिमा  , the International Energy Agency halved  इसके   अनुमान   of  additional nuclear generating capacity to  be  built by 2035 .
Photograph of the Berlin  वॉल  taken from  the  West  पक्ष  .
the   वॉल  was  निर्मित  in  1961   to   prevent  East  germans  from fleeing  इससे  Communism  .
It  थी  an  iconic  symbol of  the  Cold  युद्ध   और  its fall  in   1989  marked the end of the War .
the  Cold  युद्ध  , often dated from 1947 to 1991  ,  was  a  sustained  राज्य  of political and military  टेंशन  between powers in the Western Bloc , dominated  by   the  United States with NATO  among  its allies , and  शक्तियां  in the Eastern  bloc  , dominated by the  सोवियत   संघ   साथ  with  the  Warsaw Pact .
This began after the success of their temporary wartime  गठबंधन  against Nazi Germany , leaving  the  USSR  और   the   us   as  two superpowers with  profound  economic and political differences .
A neutral faction arose with the  non-aligned  Movement founded by Egypt ,  इण्डिया   ,   और  Yugoslavia ; this  गुट  rejected  संघ  with either the  us-led  West or the Soviet-led East  .
The Cold  युद्ध  was so named because the two major powers—each possessing  नाभिकीय  weapons and thereby threatened with mutual assured destruction —never met in direct military combat .
बजाय   ,   in  their struggle for global  influence  they  सगाई   in  ongoing psychological warfare and  in  regular indirect  confrontations  through  प्रॉक्सी   युद्धों  .
Cycles of relative  शांत  would be followed by high tension  ,  which could have led to  संसार  war  .
the  tensest times were  दौरान  the Berlin Blockade (  1948–1949   )  , the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ) , the Suez Crisis ( 1956 ) ,  the  Berlin Crisis  of   1961   ,  the  क्यूबन   मिसाइल  crisis ( 1962  )  , the Vietnam  युद्ध  ( 1959–1975 )  ,   the   योम  Kippur  युद्ध  ( 1973  )   ,  the  सोवियत  war in  अफगानिस्तान  ( 1979–1989  )  , the Soviet downing of Korean  एयर  Lines Flight 007  (  1983 )  ,  and  the   ``  Able Archer '' NATO military  exercises  (  1983  ) .
The conflict was expressed through  सैन्य  coalitions , strategic conventional  फ़ोर्स  deployments ,  extensive  aid  to  client states ,  espionage  , massive  प्रचार  campaigns ,  conventional  and  नाभिकीय   बाहें  races ,  appeals  to neutral nations  ,  rivalry at  खेल   कार्यक्रम   (  in particular the  ओलंपिक   )   ,  and technological competitions  ऐसे  as the Space Race  .
the   us   और  USSR became involved  in   राजनैतिक  and military  विरोध   in  the Third World countries of Latin America  ,  Africa , the Middle  ईस्ट  ,  और  Southeast Asia  .
To  alleviate   the  risk of a potential nuclear war ,  दोनो  sides  sought  relief of  राजनैतिक  tensions  through  détente  in  the 1970s  .
In the 1980s  ,  the United States increased diplomatic , military  ,   और  economic pressures on the Soviet  संघ  , at  a  time when the communist state  थी  already suffering from  आर्थिक  stagnation .
In the mid-1980s  ,  the new Soviet President  मिखाइल  Gorbachev introduced the liberalizing reforms of  perestroika  ( `` reorganization  ''  ,  1987  ) and  ग्लास्नोस्त  ( `` openness ''  ,  ca . 1985 ) .
Pressures for national independence grew  stronger  in Eastern Europe  ,  especially Poland .
वे  reached a  तोड़कर  point when  गोर्बाचेव  refused  to   उपयोग  Soviet  सैनिकों  to  support  the  faltering  government  of  East  जर्मनी  in late  1989  .
भीतर  weeks all the satellite states broke free  इससे  Moscow in a peaceful wave of revolutions (  वहीँ   थी  some violence in Romania ) .
The  pressures   escalated  inside the Soviet Union , where Communism fell and the  ussr   थी   formally  dissolved in late 1991 .
the   संयुक्त  States  remained  as the  संसार  's only  महाशक्ति  .
The Cold War  और  its events have  बाएँ  a significant legacy ,  और  it is often  referred  to in popular culture , especially in media  featuring  themes of  espionage  and  the  threat of  नाभिकीय  warfare  .
Pikes  शिखर  State Park is a state park of Iowa  ,  USA , featuring a  bluff  overlooking the Upper Mississippi  नदी  opposite the confluence of the Wisconsin River .
The  पार्क  is operated  by  the Iowa  विभाग  of Natural Resources  .
It is nearly a  हजार  acres ( 4 km2 ) in extent .
The nearest city  is  McGregor , Iowa .
Iowa Highway 76 approximately defines  इसके  northern  boundary   .
It gets  इसके  name from  the  Iowa  अवतार  of Pikes Peak , a particularly  ऊँची  point overlooking the gorge of  the  Upper  मिसिसिपी  , and  जैसे   pikes  Peak in Colorado ,  is  named for Zebulon Pike .
वहीँ  are hiking  trails  , campgrounds  और  RV facilities  .
पहाड़   बाइक  are  permitted  in  निश्चित   portions  of the park  .
aside   इससे  recreational development ,  the  land in the park was never  साफ   और  to a  विशाल  extent  remains  as  it  was before the advent  of   श्वेत   उपनिवेश  .
It is  भाग  of a larger complex of  पार्क  ,  reserves   और  refuges  जिससे   शामिल   पुतला  Mounds National  स्मारक  ,  the  various  components  of the  पीला  River State Forest ,  the  enormous  अपर  Mississippi  नदी  National Wildlife and Fish Refuge  और  much smaller , much less well known Driftless Area  नेशनल  Wildlife Refuge .
the  Northeast Iowa Legacy Trail System is undergoing  विकास  , and will connect  तत्व  of these  साइट  .
Zac Brown  बैंड   is  an American  country/folk  band based in Atlanta ,  जॉर्जिया  .
The  लाइनअप  consists of Zac Brown  (  lead vocals ,  गिटार  ) , Jimmy  de   मार्टिनी  ( fiddle , vocals  )  , John Driskell Hopkins ( bass guitar  ,   vocals  ) , Coy  bowles  (  गिटार  , keyboards )  ,  Chris Fryar  (   ड्रम   )  ,  मिट्टी   कुक   (  guitar ,  keyboards  , mandolin ,  स्टील   गिटार  , vocals  )  ,  और  Daniel de  लॉस   रेयेस  (  percussion  ) .
the  band has toured throughout the  संयुक्त  States ,  सहित   a  slot on the 2009 and  2010  Bonnaroo Music  पर्व  .
They have also recorded five studio albums , and charted nine Number  एक  singles on  the  Billboard country  चार्ट  : `` Chicken Fried `` , `` Toes  ``  ,  ``  Highway 20 Ride ``  ,  `` Free  ``   ,  `` As She 's Walking  दूर  `` , ``  colder  Weather `` ,  ``  Knee  गहन   ``  , `` Keep  me  In Mind `` ,  और  `` Goodbye  in  Her Eyes ``  in  addition  to  the singles `` Whatever It Is ``  और  `` No Hurry  ``   ,  which peaked at number 2  on   the   वही  chart .
बात   रेडियो  is a radio  स्वरूप  containing  चर्चा  about  topical  issues  .
सबसे  shows are regularly hosted by  a  single individual  ,   और  often feature interviews with a number of different  अतिथि   .
Talk  रेडियो  typically  शामिल  an element of listener participation  ,  usually by  प्रसारण  live conversations between  the  host  और  listeners who `` call in '' (  प्रायः  via telephone ) to the show .
Listener  योगदान  are usually  screened  by a show  's  producer  (  s  )  in  अनुक्रम  to  अधिकतम   दर्शक  interest  और  ,  in  the case of  वाणिज्यिक   बात  radio , attract advertisers .
generally   ,   the   shows  are  व्यवस्थित  into  खण्ड  ,  प्रत्येक  separated  by  a pause  लिये   विज्ञापन  ;  however   ,  in public  or   non-commercial   रेडियो  ,  म्यूज़िक  is sometimes played  in  place  of  commercials to separate the program segments .
Variations of talk radio include conservative  बात   ,  hot  बात  ,  उदार  talk  और   खेल   बात  .
While talk radio  रै   historically  been  संबद्ध  with  am/fm   ,  starting  around  2005 the technology  लिये   internet-based  talk-radio shows became cost effective in the  रूप  of podcasts .
Now , it is possible for an individual to  उपयोग  a  किस्में  of  सेवाएं   to  host an Internet-based  talk-radio  show without carriage by a  परंपरागत  radio station  .
In addition  tv  programming from talk  और  news outlets such  as  BBC , CNN  ,  Bloomberg  और   फॉक्स  are now often available expanding the world of talk radio  further  .
Talk  रेडियो   सुनना  is now enjoyed not  तभी  on  radios  , but a wide variety  of  other  डिवाइस  and services including  pcs  using iTunes , station directories  ऐसे  as Tunein  ,  show directory smartphones with  ऐप्स  such  as  Stitcher .
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the family Hippidae ,  containing  the  following  species:
Hippa  adactyla  Fabricius ,  1787
Hippa admirabilis ( Thallwitz , 1892 )
Hippa alcimede  (   de   man  , 1902 )
hippa   australis  Hale , 1927
Hippa  carcineutes   holthuis  &  मैनिंग  , 1970
Hippa  celaeno   (  de Man , 1896 )
Hippa  granulatus  ( Borradaile  ,  1904 )
hippa  hirtipes ( Dana ,  1852   )
Hippa indica  haig  ,  मुरुगन  & Balakrishnan  नायर   ,  1986
hippa  marmorata  (   hombron  &  jacquinot  , 1846 )
Hippa ovalis  (  A.  milne-edwards  ,  1862  )
hippa  picta ( Heller , 1861 )
Hippa  strigillata  ( Stimpson ,  1860  )
Hippa testudinaria  (  Herbst ,  1791  )
Hippa  truncatifrons  ( Miers  ,  1878 )
It is  closely   सम्बन्धित  to the genus Emerita , and  प्रजाति  have  प्रायः  been  transferred   between  the  दो  genera  .
जकार्ता  ( ) , officially  ज्ञात  as  the  Special Capital  प्रदेश  of Jakarta (  )   ,  is  the  capital and largest city of  इंडोनेशिया  .
Located on  the  northwest  coast   of   जावा   ,  Jakarta is the country 's economic ,  सांस्कृतिक   और  political  केन्द्र  ,  और  with a population  of  10,187,595  as  of  नवम्बर  2011  ,  it is the most populous city in Indonesia and in  southeast   एशिया   ,  and is the  तेरहवीं  most populated city in the world  .
The official metropolitan area , known as Jabodetabek ( a  नाम  formed by  combining   the  initial  syllables   of  Jakarta ,  bogor   ,  Depok , Tangerang  और  Bekasi ) , is the second largest  in  the world  ,  yet  the  metropolis 's suburbs still continue  परे   it  .
जकार्ता  is listed as a global city in  the   2008  Globalization and World Cities Study Group  और  Network  (   gawc   )  research  .
and has  an   क्षेत्रफल  of  .
इस  area has  जनसांख्यिकी  of well  over  28 million , making  it  one of the world 's largest conurbations in terms of number of  निवासियों   .
in  2011 , Jakarta  क्रमित  17th  among   the  world 's 200 largest cities , a  जम्प  from its 2007  रैंकिंग   of  171 .
Jakarta has grown more rapidly  than  Kuala  lumpur  , Beijing  और  Bangkok .
स्थापित   in   the  fourth century  ,   the   नगर  became an important trading port for the Kingdom  of  Sunda .
It was the de facto  पूंजी  of the Dutch East Indies ( when it was known as  batavia  )  और  has continued  as   the  capital of  इंडोनेशिया  since the  देश  's  स्वतंत्रता  was  घोषित  in 1945 .
The  नगर   is  the  सीट  of  the  ASEAN Secretariat  .
Jakarta is served by the Soekarno–Hatta  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   विमानक्षेत्र  , Halim Perdanakusuma International  विमानक्षेत्र   ,   और  Tanjung Priok  harbour  ; it is  कनेक्ट   by  several intercity and commuter railways , and served by several bus lines  कार्यशील  on reserved  busways  .
A  ठेठ  home air conditioning window unit  .
Air conditioning is  the   प्रक्रम  of altering the properties  of  air  (   primarily   तापमान  and humidity  )  to  अधिक  favourable  शर्तें  .
अधिक  generally  ,   एयर  conditioning can  refer  to any form of technological cooling , heating , ventilation , or disinfection that  modifies  the condition of air .
an  air conditioner  (  often referred  to  as air con  ,  AC  or  A/C , and not to be  उलझन   साथ   the   संक्षिप्त  for alternating  वर्तमान  )  is   a  major or home  appliance   ,  system ,  or   यांत्रिकी  designed to change the  एयर   तापमान  and humidity within an area ( used for cooling and sometimes  हीटिंग   depending  on the air  गुण  at  a  given time ) .
The cooling  is  typically done  using  a simple refrigeration  साईकिल   ,  but  sometimes  evaporation is used , commonly for comfort cooling in buildings and  मोटर   वाहनों   .
In construction , a complete  प्रणाली  of  हीटिंग  , ventilation and  एयर  conditioning is referred  to   as  `` HVAC `` .
``  6   पैर   7  Foot '' ( also styled as `` 6'7 ''  )  is a song by American rapper Lil Wayne featuring  लेबल  mate , Cory Gunz .
It  is  taken  इससे  his ninth studio  एल्बम  ,  tha  Carter IV ( 2011  )   .
it  was officially  released  on iTunes  on  December 16 , 2010 .
It was produced by  ``  A Milli `` producer  बांग्लादेश  .
The song samples `` Day-O  (  The  banana   नाव  Song ) `` by Harry  belafonte  .
DC Talk  (  styled as dc Talk  )  ,  is  a Grammy -winning Christian rap trio .
The group was  formed   in  Lynchburg , Virginia in 1987  by  Toby McKeehan , Michael Tait ,  और   केविन   अधिकतम  Smith .
They  have  released five  प्रमुख  studio  एल्बम  together : DC  बात   (   1989  )  ,   nu  Thang  (  1990 ) , Free  at   पिछला  (  1992   )  , Jesus Freak  (  1995  )  ,  और  Supernatural ( 1998 )  .
In 2002  ,  the Encyclopedia  of  Contemporary Christian Music  पुकारा  DC Talk  ``   the  most popular overtly Christian act of all time . ''
In 2000 , the group released  an  EP  titled   सोलो  which contained  दो  solo songs from each member  .
Since  कि  time  ,  DC  बात  has  महरूम  on an  indefinite   अंतराल  ,  और  the three  बैंड  members have  प्रत्येक  led  सोलो  careers .
वे  have performed  और  recorded individual songs together several times  दौरान  the 2000s ,  हालांकि  the group never  officially  reunited or disbanded  .
The  समूह  's musical style evolved significantly throughout  उनके   करियर  .
Their first two releases  ,  DC Talk  और   nu  Thang , were of the  हिप  hop genre .
DC Talk  's  third album ,  फ़्री   at   पिछला   ,   भी  mainly took influence from  the  hip  हॉप   स्टाइल  , although  उनके  music began taking on a rock sound .
the  trio 's  पिछला  two albums , Jesus Freak  और  Supernatural , were predominantly pop rock  .
the  Bible is a compilation of many shorter books written at  अलग  times and  बाद   समवेत  into  the   biblical  canon  .
All but  the   shortest  of these books have  महरूम  divided into  अध्याय   ,   generally  a page  or  so in  लंबाई   ,  since the early  13th   सदी  .
Since the mid-16th century  ,  each  अध्याय   रै   महरूम   further  divided  into  ``  आयतें  ''  of  a  few   छोटी  lines or sentences .
Sometimes  a   वाक्य   spans  more than one  श्लोक   ,  as in the case of  ,  and sometimes there  is  more than  एक  sentence  in  a single verse  ,  as in the case of .
As the chapter  और  verse divisions were not part  of   the  original texts  ,  they  रूप   भाग  of the paratext of the Bible .
The Jewish divisions of the  यहूदी  text differ at various points from those used  by  Christians .
For  उदाहरण  ,  in   यहूदी   परंपरा  , the  ascriptions  to many Psalms are regarded as independent verses  ,  making  116   अधिक  verses  ,   whereas  the  स्थापित   ईसाई  practice is to count  और  number each Psalm ascription together with the  पहला  verse following it .
Some chapter divisions also occur in different places ,  e.g   .  in Hebrew Bibles is numbered  as  in Christian translations .
An index ( plural  :   indexes   )   is   a   सूची   of   शब्द   or  phrases (  'headings  ' )  और  associated pointers ( 'locators '  )  to  जहाँ  useful material relating to that heading can  be   मिला   in  a document .
In a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings  होगा   शामिल   names  of people ,  स्थान  and events  ,   और  concepts selected by  a  person as  होने  relevant and of  ब्याज  to a possible reader of the book .
the  pointers are typically page numbers , paragraph  संख्याएँ   or  section numbers .
In a library catalog the words  हैं  authors  ,  titles ,  विषय  headings , etc.  ,  and the pointers  हैं  call  संख्याएँ   .
Internet search engines  ,   ऐसे  as  google   ,  and full text  searching   सहायता  provide  अभिगम  to information  लकिन   हैं   नहीं  as selective as an index ,  as  they provide  non-relevant   कड़ी  , and  may   मिस   प्रासंगिक  information if  it  is not  phrased  in exactly the way they expect .
in  United States  वित्तीय  regulation , a  संदिग्ध  activity report ( or SAR  )  is a  रपट  made  by  a financial institution  to  the Financial Crimes  प्रवर्तन  Network ( FinCEN )  ,  an agency of the United  राज्य  Department of the  राजकोष   ,   regarding  suspicious or  potentially   संदिग्ध  activity .
Facebook  on  the Ad-tech  2010
Facebook  is   an  online social  नेटवर्किंग  service  ,  whose name  तना  from the  colloquial   नाम  for  the   किताब  given to students at the  प्रारंभ  of the  अकादमिक   साल  by some university administrations in  the  United States  to   सहायता  students get  to   जान  each other .
It  थी   संस्थापित  in  फ़रवरी  2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his  कॉलेज   roommates   और  fellow Harvard  विश्वविद्यालयों  students Eduardo  saverin   ,   एंड्रयू  McCollum ,  डस्टिन  Moskovitz  और  Chris  ह्यूजेस  .
The website  's  membership was initially limited by  the  founders to Harvard students , but was expanded to other  कॉलेजों  in the Boston area , the Ivy  लीग  , and  स्टैनफोर्ड   विश्वविद्यालयों  .
It gradually added support for  विद्यार्थी  at  विभिन्न  other universities before opening to  ऊँची  school students  ,  and eventually to anyone  aged   13  and  over  .
फेसबुक  now  allows  any  उपयोक्ता  who declare  themselves  to  be   at  least 13  सालो   बूढ़ा   to  become  पंजीकृत  users  of  the site .
Users must register  पहले   using  the site  ,  after which they may  बनाएँ  a personal profile , add  अन्य  users as  मित्रों  , and exchange messages , including  स्वचालित  notifications when they update  उनके   प्रोफ़ाइल  .
Additionally , users may join  common-interest  user groups  ,  organized by workplace  ,  school or  कॉलेज  , or other  विशेषताएँ  , and  categorize   उनके  friends into lists such  as  ``  लोगों  From Work '' or `` Close Friends '' .
As of September 2012 , Facebook  रै  over  एक  billion  क्रियाशील  users .
According to a May 2011  उपभोक्ता  Reports  सर्वेक्षण   ,  there are 7.5 million  children  under 13  साथ   खाते  and 5 million under 10 , violating the site  's  terms of service .
In May 2005 , Accel partners invested $ 12.7 million in Facebook , and  जिम  Breyer added  $  1 million of his own  धन  to the  घट   .
A January 2009  compete.com   पढ़ाई   क्रमित  Facebook  as  the most used  सोशल  networking service by worldwide monthly active users .
Entertainment Weekly  शामिल  the  साईट  on  इसके  end-of-the-decade `` best-of  ''  list  ,   saying  ,  ``  How on earth did we stalk our exes , remember our co-workers ' birthdays , bug  हमारी  friends  ,   और  play  a  rousing  खेल  of Scrabulous  पहले  Facebook  ?   ''
आलोचकों  , such  as  Facebook Detox , state that  फेसबुक  has turned into a  नेशनल   obsession   in  the  संयुक्त  States  ,  resulting  in  vast amounts of time  खोया   और   प्रोत्साहित  narcissism  .
quantcast  estimates Facebook has 138.9  लाख  monthly unique U.S. visitors in May  2011  .
According to Social Media Today  ,   in   अप्रैल  2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million )  of   the  U.S. population had a  फेसबुक   खाता  .
Nevertheless , Facebook  's  market growth  प्रारंभ  to stall in some regions , with  the  site  खोने  7  लाख  active users in  the  United States  और  Canada  in  May 2011 .
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering  on   फ़रवरी   1  , 2012 , and was  headquartered  in Menlo Park ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   .
फेसबुक  Inc. began  selling   भण्डार  to the  पब्लिक   और   व्यापार   on   the   नैस्डैक  on May 18 , 2012 .
Sulfonamide  कार्यात्मक  group
Hydrochlorothiazide  is  a  सल्फोनेमाइड   और   a   thiazide  .
Furosemide  is  a  सल्फोनेमाइड  , but not a thiazide  .
Sulfonamide or sulphonamide is the  आधार  of several groups of drugs .
The original antibacterial sulfonamides (  sometimes   पुकारा  sulfa drugs or  sulpha  drugs  )  are synthetic antimicrobial agents that contain the  सल्फोनेमाइड  group .
Some sulfonamides  हैं  also devoid of antibacterial  कार्यकलाप  , e.g. , the anticonvulsant  sultiame  .
the   sulfonylureas   और  thiazide diuretics  हैं  newer drug  समूह  based on the  जीवाणुरोधी  sulfonamides .
Sulfa allergies are common , hence medications  containing   sulfonamides  are  विहित  carefully .
It is important to  मेक  a distinction  between  sulfa  दवाएँ  and other  sulfur-containing  drugs and additives , such as  sulfates  and  sulfites  , which are chemically unrelated to  the  sulfonamide group , and do not  कारण   the  same hypersensitivity  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  seen in the sulfonamides .
This is a  सूची   of  characters from George  लोपेज़  .
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or  आंसर  cygnoides ) are  domesticated  grey geese  (  either Greylag Geese or Swan Geese ) kept as poultry for  उनके  meat ,  अंडे   ,  and down feathers  चूंकि  ancient times  .
30 Seconds to Mars is an  अमरीकी  rock band  इससे  Los Angeles , formed in 1998 .
Since  2007  , the band has consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals , rhythm guitar , songwriter )  ,  Shannon  leto   (  drums , percussion  )  and  tomo  Miličević ( lead  गिटार  , keyboards ) .
Following the departure of Matt Wachter  (  now  of  Angels & Airwaves ) in 2007 ,  टिम  Kelleher  became  the  bassist  for the group ,  performing   सजीव   तभी   साथ  both  jared   और  Miličević recording bass  लिये  studio recordings , while Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009  .
previously   ,  the group also featured guitarists Solon Bixler (  अभी  of Great Northern  )  and  केविन   ड्रेक   (  now of Polaroid Kiss ) .
To date  ,   30  Seconds to  मंगल   have   released  three studio  एल्बम   –  30 Seconds  to  Mars ( 2002  )  ,  a  Beautiful Lie  (   2005  )  ,   इस  Is  युद्ध   (  2009  )  and three extended  plays   –  AOL Sessions Undercover  (  2007  )  ,  to  the Edge of the Earth (  2008  ) , and  एमटीवी  Unplugged : 30  सेकेंड   to   मंगल   (   2011  ) .
30 Seconds to Mars  '   म्यूज़िक  has been associated mostly with neo-prog  ,   प्रगतिशील   मेटल  and post-grunge , but they have also  शामिल  emo , screamo , space  चट्टान  and synthrock into  उनके  music .
वे  have been compared to Pink  floyd  ( who were  an  influence on their work  )   और  Tool because  of  their use  of   philosophical  and spiritual lyrics , concept albums and their use of experimental music .
A  क्रिसमस  Story  is  a 1983 American Christmas comedy film based on  the  short  कहानियां  and semi-fictional anecdotes of author  और  raconteur Jean Shepherd , based on  उसके   किताब  In  परमेश्वर  We Trust , All Others  अदा  Cash  ,  with some elements  निकला  from Wanda  हिक्की  's  रात्रि  of Golden Memories .
It was directed by Bob Clark .
the   फिल्मी  has since  become  a holiday classic and  is  shown numerous  टाइम्स   on  television  दौरान   the  Christmas  ऋतु   on   the   संजाल  TBS , often in a 24-hour  मैराथन   .
In 2012 ,  the   फिल्मी   थी  selected for preservation in the  नेशनल   फिल्मी  Registry by the Library of Congress for being  ``  culturally  ,   historically   ,  or  aesthetically  significant  ''  .
a  Joe 's  केकड़ा  Shack branch  in  San Diego ,  ca  .
the  building was initially a rowing club and was  बाद   परिवर्तित  into the restaurant .
जो  's  केकड़ा  Shack is an  अमरीकी  chain of beach-themed seafood  कैज़ुअल  dining restaurants owned by Ignite Restaurant Group .
Founded in Houston ,  टेक्सास  ,  the   रेस्तरां  now  operates   स्थितियाँ   सब  across the United States of America .
it   serves  seafood and  अमरीकी  cuisine .
The  रेस्तरां  also have a gift  दूकान  that sells facetious t-shirts  featuring  phrases advertising Joe  's   seafood  choices .
It  is  based in  ह्यूस्टन  , Texas  .
New York City  क्रूज  Liner  टर्मिनल   in  Hell 's Kitchen  at  52nd  गली   .
The New York Passenger Ship  टर्मिनल  (  भी  known as the Luxury Liner  पंक्ति  or Manhattan Cruise  टर्मिनल  or  नई  York Cruise Terminal ) is a  टर्मिनल  for  ocean-going   यात्री   जहाजों  on Manhattan  's   वेस्ट  side  .
The  टर्मिनल   consists   of  North River Piers  88  , 90 , 92 and 94 on the Hudson River between West 46th  और   वेस्ट   54th  Street .
( As a general  नियम  ,  बांध  numbers  in  Manhattan can be determined by adding 40 to the corresponding cross-street . )
जहाजों  now dock at Piers  88   ,  90 and  92  .
Pier  94   on  the north side  is   अभी   प्रयुक्त  for exhibition space  .
Pier  86  , once used by United States Lines , is  अभी  home  to  the  uss  Intrepid  .
in   2003  , the terminal handled  900,000   यात्री  .
The city is forecasting  कि  1.5 million will use  the   टर्मिनल  by 2017 .
the   पियर  are long  और  apart  .
वे  were first  समाप्त   in   1935  to replace  the   चेल्सी  Piers as the city 's  लक्ज़री   लाइनर  terminal .
The new terminal  थी  built to handle bigger ships  कि   था   outgrown   the  Chelsea  पियर  .
The  पियर  were renovated  in  1970 and are currently undergoing  another   $  150  लाख  renovation .
The  संवर  plans call for it to handle three  विशाल  ships at  a  time  .
in  doing  renovations   ,  the city is  भी  considering  decommissioning  Pier 92 .
लोगो  of  the  New York  क्रूज   terminal.for
decades the  टर्मिनल  was the  तभी   ocean-going   यात्री  terminal  in  New York  हार्बर  .
With an upsurge in  क्रूज  ship traffic and the terminal  's  ability to  हैंडल  comfortably only three  विशाल   जहाजों  at a  समय   ,  two new terminals have opened in the  हार्बर   —   the  Cape Liberty Cruise Port opened  in   2004   in  Bayonne , New Jersey ( used  by  Royal Caribbean Cruise Line , Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Cruises ) ,  और   the  Brooklyn  क्रूज   टर्मिनल  ( used by the  महारानी  Mary 2  और  other  जहाजों  of the Carnival Corporation cruise  ब्रांड्स   )  opened  in  2006 in Brooklyn , New  यॉर्क  .
the  West Side Highway takes a small jog  ईस्ट  from the piers to below West 42nd  गली  because when the terminal  थी   निर्मित  land  था   to  be taken  दूर   इससे   मैनहटन  to allow for longer piers .
The  us   फौज   corps  of Engineers ,  जो   कंट्रोल  the  waterfront  dimension  ,  would  नहीं   extend   the  pierhead  लकीर  farther  into  the river , so the city  विस्तारित  the  बांध  by cutting away  at   the  land .
the  city earlier  किया   इस   लिये  the Chelsea Piers ;  however   in  Chelsea  तभी  landfill was taken away .
At the Passenger  टर्मिनल  actual Manhattan schist was taken away  .
From downstream  in  the river
अनेक  major passenger ships have  docked  there , including the  rms  Queen  मरियम  2 and Freedom of the  समंदर   ,  before  the  Brooklyn and Bayonne  terminals  opened  .
The SS  normandie  caught fire and subsequently capsized  at   इसके  Pier 88  berth  during  संसार  War  ii   .
the  Normandie ,  renamed  USS Lafayette , lies capsized  in  the frozen mud at  बांध  88 in the winter of 1942
Norwegian Cruise  लकीर  's  जल्द   to  be newest  जलयान   the  Norwegian  breakaway   होगा  sail year-round out of  the  New York Passenger Ship  टर्मिनल  .
The city  होगा  spend $  4  million to  renovate  and upgrade  the  cruise terminal to accommodate the  जलयान  .
This is an overview  of   the   नियमित   ,  recurring  ,  and other characters of the  tv   श्रेणी   ncis  .
Christian right is  a  term used in the  संयुक्त  States to  describe  right-wing Christian  राजनैतिक   समूह   कि   हैं   characterized  by  उनके  strong  support  of  socially   रूढ़िवादी  policies  .
ईसाई  conservatives principally seek to apply their  समझना  of  the   शिक्षाओं  of Christianity to politics and public policy by proclaiming the value of those  शिक्षाओं  and/or  by  seeking  to  use those teachings to influence law and public policy .
in  the  u.S.  ,  the  Christian right is  an  informal  गठबन्धन   formed   around  a core of  धर्मान्तरण  Protestants that  draws  `` support  इससे  politically conservative Catholics , Jews  ,  Mormons  ,  and occasionally  secularists  '' who share their goals .
the  movement has  इसके  roots in  अमरीकी   राजनीती  going back as far the 1940s  और  has been  विशेषकर   influential   चूंकि   the   1970s   .
उनके  influence  draws   ,  in part , from grassroots activism as well as their focus on social issues and  क्षमता   to   motivate   the   electorate   around  those issues  .
The Christian right is  notable  today for advancing socially conservative positions on issues including school  दुआ  , stem  कोशिका  research  ,   समलैंगिकता  , contraception , abortion , and  pornography  .
Although the  ईसाई  right  is  usually associated with the  u.S.   ,   the   गति  has  महरूम  a key factor in the politics of  कनाडा   ,   the  Netherlands , Northern  आयरलैंड   और  Australia  ,   among   अन्य   .
Far East Movement  (  stylized as Far★East Movement or abbreviated FM ) is an American hip hop  बैंड  quartet based  in  Los Angeles .
the  group formed  in   2003  and  consists  of Kev  nish  ( Kevin Nishimura ) ,  prohgress  (  जेम्स  Roh  )  , J-Splif  (  Jae Choung ) , and DJ Virman (  virman  Coquia )  .
Far East  गति  's  पहला  claim to fame was  उनके  song ``  गोलाकार  Round  ''  featured  in  the Hollywood movie ,  the  Fast  और  the  क्रोधित   :   टोकियो   बहाव   ,  and its subsequent soundtrack  ,  video game and DVD  .
Since ``  गोलाकार   गोलाकार  ''  ,  the group has been featured on various  संजाल  shows  सहित  , , Entourage , Gossip  लड़की  , and  finishing  the Game (  a  featured film at Sundance  2007   )  .
Their single `` Like  a   g6   ``   hit  number  एक   on  the  बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 Chart and on  itunes  as well  in   लेट  October 2010 .
दूर  East Movement also  रै  the distinction  of   होने  the first Asian-American group to earn a # 1 hit on the  बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 in the  संयुक्त  States  .
lr44  is the  आईईसी  designation for an alkaline 1.5 volt  बटन  cell , commonly used  in  small LED  flashlights   ,  digital thermometers  ,  calculators , calipers ,  घड़ियाँ   ,   घड़ियाँ   ,  toys  और  laser pointers .
lr44  alkaline  कोशिका
the   बैटरी   नामकरण  is defined  by  the International Electrotechnical Commission ( IEC ) in its 60086-3 standard ( Primary batteries , part 3  देखें  batteries ) .
The  अक्षर   l   indicates   the  electrochemical system  प्रयुक्त  ; a zinc negative electrode ,  मैंगनीज   डाइऑक्साइड   depolarizer  and  धनात्मक   एलेक्ट्रोड  ,  और  an alkaline electrolyte .
R44 indicates a  गोलाकार  cell 11.4±0.2 mm diameter and  5.2±0.2   mm  height as defined  by  the IEC standard  60086  .
निर्माताओं   have  their own part  संख्याएँ  for IEC type LR44  बैटरी   including:
LR44 , LR44G  ,   lr44gd  , LR44H
LR1154  ,   l1154   ,   l1154c  , L1154F ,  l1154g   ,   l1154h
6135-99-792-8475  ( NSN )
1166A
ag13   ,  A613 ,  ag14  , AG-14 , G13A ,  g13-a
157 , 303 , 357
a76  , GDA76 , GP76A , GPA7 , GPA75 ,  gpa76  , GPS76A,
1128MP , 208-904 ,  a-76  ,  ca18  ,  ca19   ,  CR44  ,  D76A ,  ka   ,   ka76   ,   ms76h  ,  px76a   ,  PX675A , RPX675  ,   rw82  , SB-F9 ,  v13ga
4.5-volt , D ,  c   ,   aa  ,  aaa  , AAAA ,  a23   ,  9-volt , CR2032 and LR44  बैटरी
Other types of batteries  हैं   or   यहूद  made in the R44 size .
Formerly  ,   पारा   बैटरी   यहूद  made as  बटन   कोशिकाएं  ( types MR44 and NR44 )  .
Zinc-air  बैटरी  type PR44  आवश्यकता  air  to   कार्य  .
silver-oxide  batteries type SR44  may  provide extra  क्षमता   compared  to  lr44  types but have slightly different voltage characteristics .
Performance of a  यंत्र   meant  to  उपयोग  a  silver-oxide   बैटरी   may  be  degraded  with substitution  of  LR44 types .
Manufacturer 's numbers for  चांदी  oxide  r44  size cells include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240 ( NSN  )
SR1154
1107SO
1131sop
sg13
s76
EPX76 ( Energizer  )
303/357   (  D357H )
Hurricane  कैटरीना   थी   the  deadliest  और  most destructive Atlantic hurricane of the 2005  अटलांटिक   hurricane   ऋतु   .
it  was the costliest natural  विपत्ति  ,  as   खूब  as  एक  of the five deadliest hurricanes , in the  इतिहास   of  the  संयुक्त  States  .
Among  अंकित  Atlantic  hurricanes  , it was  the  sixth strongest overall .
At least  1,833  people died in  the  hurricane and subsequent floods , making it the  deadliest   u.S.  hurricane since  the  1928  okeechobee   hurricane  ; total property damage  थी  estimated at $  81  billion ( 2005 USD ) , nearly  ट्रिपल  the damage  brought   by  Hurricane Andrew  in  1992  .
hurricane  Katrina  formed  over the  बहामा   on  August 23 ,  2005  and crossed southern  फ्लोरिडा  as a moderate Category 1 hurricane  ,  causing some  मौतों  and flooding there  पहले   strengthening  rapidly in the Gulf  of  Mexico .
The  hurricane  strengthened to a Category 5  hurricane   over  the  गरम  Gulf water ,  लकिन  weakened before making its second  landfall  as a Category  3  hurricane on  the  morning  of  Monday , August 29 in southeast Louisiana .
it  caused severe  विनाश   साथ  the  गल्फ   coast  from central  फ्लोरिडा   to  Texas ,  much  of it due to the storm surge .
The most significant number of  मौतों  occurred  in  New Orleans  ,   louisiana   ,  which flooded  as  the levee system catastrophically  विफल   ,   in  many cases  घंटों  after the  तूफ़ान   था  moved inland .
Eventually  80   %  of the  नगर  and  विशाल  tracts of neighboring parishes became  flooded   ,   और  the floodwaters lingered for weeks .
However  ,  the worst property damage occurred  in  coastal  क्षेत्रों  ,  ऐसे  as all Mississippi beachfront towns , which  यहूद  flooded  over   90  % in  घंटों  , as  नौकाएँ  and  कसीनो  barges rammed buildings , pushing cars  और   घरों  inland , with waters reaching 6–12 miles (  10–19   km  ) from the beach .
The hurricane  surge  protection  असफलताओं   in  New Orleans are  माना  the  worst   सिविल  engineering disaster in U.S. history  और  prompted  a  lawsuit against the U.S. Army  corps   of   इंजीनियर्स  ( USACE  )  ,  the  designers and builders of the  तटबन्ध  system  as  mandated by  the  Flood Control Act  of  1965 .
Responsibility  लिये   the   असफलताओं  and flooding  थी  laid squarely on the Army Corps  in  January 2008 by Judge Stanwood Duval  ,  U.S. District Court ,  लकिन   the  federal agency could not be held financially liable due to sovereign immunity in  the   बाढ़  Control Act of 1928 .
There was also  an  investigation of  the  responses  इससे  federal ,  राज्य  and local governments ,  resulting  in the resignation of  संघीय  Emergency Management Agency  (  FEMA ) director Michael  D.  Brown , and  of  New  ऑरलियन्स   पुलिस   विभाग  ( NOPD )  अधीक्षक   एडी   कम्पास  .
Several agencies including  the  United  राज्य  Coast Guard ( USCG )  ,  National Hurricane  बीच  ( NHC )  ,   और  National Weather Service ( NWS )  यहूद  commended for their actions .
They provided accurate hurricane  मौसम   ट्रैकिंग  forecasts with sufficient  सीसे   समय   .
Even the most insistent appeals  इससे  national , state and local  पब्लिक  officials  to  residents to evacuate  पहले  the storm  किया   नहीं  warn that the levees  could  breach and  असफल  .
U.S. debt from 1940 to 2011 .
रेड  lines  indicate   the   ``  debt held by the  पब्लिक  '' and black lines indicate  the  total national debt or gross  पब्लिक  debt  .
The  अंतर  is the  ``   intragovernmental  debt ,  ''   जिससे  includes  दायित्वों   to  government programs such  as   सोशल  Security .
Stated as  a   सूत्र   ,  National Debt = Debt  आयोजित  by  the  Public +  intragovernmental  Debt .
The second panel  shows  the two debt  आंकड़े  as  a  percentage of  u.S.  GDP  (  dollar value of U.S. economic production for  कि  year ) .
The  शीर्ष  panel is  deflated  so every year is  in   2010   डॉलर  .
The United States public  कर्ज़  is the money borrowed by the federal government of the  संयुक्त  States through  the  issuing of securities by the Treasury and other federal government agencies  .
US  पब्लिक  debt consists of two components:
कर्ज़   आयोजित  by  the   पब्लिक   शामिल  Treasury securities held  by   निवेशकों  outside  the  federal government  ,  including that held by individuals , corporations , the Federal  आरक्षित   प्रणाली  and  विदेशी   ,  state  और  local governments .
Debt  आयोजित  by government  खाते  or  intragovernmental  debt  शामिल  non-marketable Treasury securities held in  खाते  administered by the  संघीय  government that  हैं  owed to program  beneficiaries  , such as the Social Security  विश्वास   निधि   .
Debt held  by  government accounts represents  the   संचयी   surpluses   ,   सहित  interest  आय  , of  ये  accounts that have been invested in  राजकोष  securities  .
पब्लिक  debt  increases  or decreases  as  a  परिणाम  of the annual  एकीकृत  budget deficit  or  surplus  .
the   संघीय  government  बजट  deficit or surplus  is  the  अंतर   between  government receipts and spending , ignoring intra-governmental transfers .
however  , some spending  कि   is  excluded  इससे  the  deficit   (   supplemental  appropriations  )  also adds  to   the  debt .
historically  , the  us  public debt  as  a share of GDP increased during wars and  recessions  , and subsequently  अस्वीकृत  .
For  उदाहरण  , debt held by  the  public as a  share  of GDP peaked  बस  after World War  ii  ( 113 % of GDP in  1945   )   ,   लकिन   तब  fell  over  the following 30 years .
in  recent decades ,  however   ,  large budget deficits and the resulting increases in debt have led to concern about  the  long-term sustainability of the federal government 's  फिस्कल  policies .
on  2 April  2013   ,   कर्ज़  held by the  पब्लिक  was  लगभग  $  11.959  trillion or about 75 % of GDP .
Intragovernmental holdings stood  at   $  4.846  खरब  , giving a combined total public  कर्ज़  of  $  16.805 trillion .
As of January  2013  ,  $  5.6  खरब  or approximately  47  % of the debt held by the public was owned by foreign investors , the  largest   of  which were  the  People  's   गणतंत्र  of China and  जापानी  at just over $  1.1  trillion  प्रत्येक   .
in  basketball , an assist  is  attributed to a player who passes the  बॉल  to a teammate  in   a   रास्ता  that  लीड  to a score by field goal  ,  meaning that  he  or she was ``  assisting  '' in the basket  .
There is some judgment involved  in  deciding  whether   a  passer should be credited with an  assist  .
an  assist can be scored  लिये  the passer even if the  खिलाड़ी   जो   receives  the pass makes a  बास्केट  after  ड्रिब्लिंग  the  बॉल  .
however  , the  असली  definition of an  assist  did  नहीं  include  ऐसे  situations  ,  so the  तुलना  of  assist  statistics across eras is  a  complex matter .
तभी   the   pass  directly before the score may be counted  as  an assist  ,  so  no   अधिक   than  one assist can be recorded per field  लक्ष्य  ( unlike in other sports , such as ice hockey )  .
A pass that  लीड   to   a  shooting  बेईमानी   और  scoring by free  throws  does not count as  an  assist  in  the NBA  ,   लकिन   करता   in   fiba  play  (  only one assist is  awarded   प्रति  set of free  throws  in which  at  least  एक   फ़्री  throw  is  made  )   .
Point guards tend  to   मिलेंगी   the  most assists per  खेल   (  apg ) , as their role is primarily  कि  of  a   passer   और   ballhandler  .
Centers tend  to   मिलेंगी   कम  assists , but  centers   साथ  good floor presence and court vision can dominate a team  by  assisting .
Being inside the key , the  बीच  often has the best angles and the best position for  ``  dishes  ''  and other short passes in the  स्कोरिंग  area .
Center Wilt Chamberlain led the NBA in assists in 1968  .
a  strong center with inside-scoring  prowess  ,  ऐसे   as  former NBA center Hakeem Olajuwon ,  can  also  be  an effective assistor  क्युकी  the defense 's  double-teaming   tends  to open  up  offense  in   the  form of  निशानेबाज  .
The NBA single-game  assist  record  is   30  , held  by  Scott  skiles   of  the Orlando Magic  विरूद्ध  the  डेनवर   टेंडर्स   ,   on  December 30 , 1990 .
The  एनबीए   रिकार्ड  for most career  assists   is   आयोजित  by John  स्टॉकटन  with 15,806 .
the  mill or mille ( )  (  sometimes  mil  in the UK ,  जब  discussing property taxes in the United States , or previously in Cyprus  और   माल्टा  ) is a now-abstract unit of currency used  sometimes  in accounting .
In the United States , it is a notional unit equivalent to  of  a United States dollar (  a  tenth of  a  cent ) .
in   the  United  किंगडम  it was proposed during  the   दशकों  of discussion on the decimalization of the  पाउंड  as  a  division of the pound sterling  .
Several other currencies used the mill ,  ऐसे   as   the  Maltese  लीरा  .
The term  आता   इससे  the Latin  ``  millesimum  ''  , meaning `` thousandth part '' .
The Greco-Persian  युद्धों  ( also often  पुकारा  the  पारसी   युद्धों  ) were a series of conflicts between the Achaemenid  साम्राज्य  of  फारस   और  city-states of the  हैलेनिक   संसार  that started in  499  BC and lasted until 449 BC .
The collision between the  fractious  political world of  the  Greeks and  the  enormous empire  of   the   फारसियों   began  when Cyrus the Great conquered  ionia  in 547 BC .
struggling   to  rule the independent-minded cities of Ionia  ,  the Persians appointed tyrants to  नियम   प्रत्येक  of  उन्हें  .
इस  would prove to be the source  of  much trouble for  the  Greeks and Persians  alike  .
In  499   bc  ,  the   तब  tyrant of Miletus , Aristagoras ,  embarked   on  an expedition to conquer the island of Naxos , with Persian support ; however , the expedition was  a  debacle  और   ,  pre-empting his dismissal , Aristagoras  incited  all  of  Hellenic Asia Minor into rebellion against the  फारसियों  .
इस  was  the  beginning of  the  Ionian Revolt , which would last until 493 BC  ,  progressively  आरेखण  more regions  of  Asia Minor into the conflict .
Aristagoras  secured  military support from Athens  और  Eretria  ,  and in  498   bc  these  शक्तियां  helped  to  capture  और  burn the  पारसी  regional capital of Sardis  .
The Persian king Darius  the   ग्रेट   vowed   to   have  revenge on Athens  और   eretria   लिये  this act  .
the   विद्रोह  continued  ,  with the two sides  effectively   stalemated  throughout 497–495 BC  .
In  494  BC , the Persians regrouped , and attacked the  epicentre  of the revolt  in  Miletus .
At the Battle of  lade  ,  the  Ionians suffered a decisive defeat  ,  and  the  rebellion collapsed , with the final members  होने   stamped  out the following year .
Seeking  to  secure his  साम्राज्य  from further revolts  और   इससे  the  हस्तक्षेप  of the  मेनलैंड  Greeks , Darius embarked on a scheme to conquer Greece and  to  punish Athens and Eretria  लिये  burning Sardis .
The  पहला  Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 BC ,  साथ  the  पारसी  general Mardonius  conquering  Thrace and Macedon before several mishaps forced an early end to the  अभियान   .
In 490 BC a  दूसरी  force was sent to Greece , this time  आरपार  the Aegean Sea ,  अंतर्गत   the   कमांड   of  Datis and Artaphernes .
This expedition subjugated the Cyclades , before besieging  ,  capturing  और   razing  Eretria .
However , while en route  to  attack Athens , the Persian force  थी  decisively defeated by the Athenians  at  the Battle of  मैराथन  , ending Persian efforts for the  समय  being .
Darius  तब  began  to  plan to complete the conquest of Greece  ,  but died in 486  bc  and  जिम्मेदारी  for the  conquest  passed to  उसके  son Xerxes I .
In 480  bc  , Xerxes personally  led  the second Persian  आक्रमण  of Greece  साथ   एक   of   the  largest ancient armies ever assembled  .
Victory  over   the  'Allied  '  Greek states ( led by Sparta and Athens  )  at the  बैटल  of Thermopylae allowed the Persians to torch Athens and  overrun  most  of   यूनानियों  .
however  , while seeking  to  destroy  the  combined Greek  बेड़े   ,  the Persians suffered a severe defeat at the Battle of Salamis .
the  following year  ,  the confederated Greeks went on the offensive  ,   defeating  the Persian army at the Battle  of  Plataea  ,  and  समाप्ति  the invasion of Greece  .
The  अलाइड  Greeks followed  up  their success by  destroying  the rest of the Persian fleet at  the  Battle of  mycale  ,  पहले  expelling Persian garrisons from Sestos  (   479  BC )  और   byzantium  ( 478 BC ) .
The actions of the  सामान्य  Pausanias  at  the siege  of   byzantium  alienated  अनेक  of  the   यूनानी   राज्य   इससे   the  Spartans , and the  anti-persian   गठबंधन  was  इसलिए   reconstituted  around  athenian  leadership , as the so-called Delian League  .
The Delian League continued to campaign against Persia  लिये  the next three decades , beginning with  the  expulsion of the remaining Persian garrisons from Europe  .
At  the   बैटल   of  the Eurymedon  in  466 BC  ,  the  लीग   जीती  a double victory that finally secured freedom for  the   शहरों  of Ionia .
however  ,  the  League 's  भागीदारी   in  an Egyptian revolt (  इससे   460–454  BC ) resulted  in  a  विनाशकारी  defeat ,  और  further campaigning was suspended .
A  बेड़े  was sent to  साइप्रस   in   451  BC  ,   लकिन  achieved  छोटी  , and when it  withdrew   the   greco-persian  Wars drew to  a  quiet end .
कुछ  historical sources  सुझाएँ  the end  of  hostilities was marked by a peace treaty between  एथेंस  and Persia ,  the   so-called  Peace of Callias .
hooverville  near Portland  ,   ऑरेगॉन
a   ``  Hooverville  ''  is the popular  नाम  for shanty towns built  by   बेघर  people  दौरान   the  Great Depression .
They  यहूद  named after  हर्बर्ट  Hoover , who was  अध्यक्ष  of the United  राज्य   दौरान   the  onset of the Depression and widely  blamed  for it .
the  term was coined by Charles Michelson ,  publicity  chief of  the  Democratic National Committee .
मैथ्यू  Michael Hasselbeck ( born  सितंबर   25   ,   1975   )   is  an American football quarterback for the Indianapolis Colts of  the  National Football League (  एनएफएल  ) .
He was drafted  in   the  sixth round of  the  1998 NFL Draft by the Green  खाड़ी   पैकर्स  .
बाद   a  season on the practice squad and two  सीज़न  backing  up  Brett Favre  ,  he  थी  traded to the Seattle Seahawks  in   2001  .
Hasselbeck gained the  starting  role in  2003  , and led Seattle  to   छह  playoff  दिखावे   और   a  Super Bowl appearance ; he was selected to three Pro  प्याले   और   an  All-Pro  चयन  .
Following  टेन   सीज़न  with the Seahawks , Hasselbeck joined  the   टेनेसी  Titans in 2011 .
hasselbeck  then signed a contract with the  इंडियानापोलिस  Colts in 2013 less than 24 hours after being  released  by the  टेनेसी  Titans .
ICT  is  inevitably related to the computer network .
सूचना   और  Communications Technology  or  (  आईसीटी  )  ,  is often  प्रयुक्त  as an extended synonym for  सूचना   प्रौद्योगिकी  ( IT ) , but  is  a more  विशिष्ट  term that stresses the  भूमिका  of unified communications and the integration of  दूरसंचार  ( telephone  लाइनों  and wireless signals  )  , computers as well as  जरुरी   एंटरप्राइज़  software , middleware , storage , and audio-visual systems  ,  which  enable  users to  अभिगम   ,  store  ,  transmit , and manipulate  सूचना  .
the  phrase ICT  था  been used  by  academic researchers  चूंकि  the 1980s  ,  but it became popular  बाद  it was  प्रयुक्त   in   a  report to the  uk  government by Dennis  stevenson   in  1997  और  in the revised National Curriculum  लिये  England  ,   वेल्स  and Northern Ireland in 2000  .
The term  आईसीटी  is now also used to refer to the convergence  of  audio-visual and telephone networks  साथ  computer networks through a single cabling  or  link system .
There  हैं   विशाल  economic incentives  (   विशाल  cost savings due to elimination of  the  telephone network  )  to merge the  audio-visual  , building management and telephone  संजाल  with the  कंप्यूटर  network system using a  सिंगल  unified  प्रणाली  of cabling  ,  signal distribution and management .
the  term Infocommunications  is   प्रयुक्त  in some cases as  a  shorter form of information  और  communication ( s ) technology .
In fact Infocommunications is the expansion of telecommunications with information  प्रसंस्करण  and content handling functions on  a   आम   डिजिटल  technology base .
For  a   तुलना   of  these  और  other terms  ,  see .
For  आईसीटी  Development Index around  the  world  ,  see .
This  is  a list of characters from  जार्ज   लोपेज़   .
A schematic presentation of  the  plum pudding model of  the   अणु  ;  in  Thomson  's  mathematical model the  ``   corpuscles   ''  (  or  modern electrons ) were arranged  non-randomly  , in rotating rings
the  current model of the sub-atomic structure involves  a  dense nucleus  घिरी  by a probabilistic ``  बादल   ''  of electrons
The plum pudding model  of  the  अणु  by J. J. Thomson  ,   जो  discovered  the  electron in  1897   ,   थी  proposed  in  1904  पहले  the  डिस्कवरी  of the  परमाणु   केंद्रक  in order to add the electron to the atomic  मॉडल   .
In  इस  model , the atom  is  composed  of  electrons ( which  thomson  still called  ``  corpuscles  ''  , though G. J. Stoney had proposed that atoms of electricity be called electrons in 1894  )  surrounded by a soup  of  positive charge  to  balance  the   electrons  '  ऋणात्मक  charges , like negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded by positively charged `` pudding `` .
The electrons (  as   we  know them today )  यहूद   विचार  to be  positioned  throughout  the  atom ,  लकिन  with  अनेक   structures  possible  लिये   positioning  multiple electrons  ,  particularly  घूर्णन   बजती   of  electrons ( see below ) .
बजाय  of a soup , the atom was  भी   sometimes  said  to  have had a `` cloud '' of  धनात्मक  charge .
साथ   इस   मॉडल  , Thomson abandoned his earlier  ``   nebular  atom ''  परिकल्पना  in which  the  atom was  रचित   of  immaterial vortices .
Now  ,  at least part of the atom was to be composed of  thomson  's particulate  ऋणात्मक   corpuscles   ,   हालांकि  the rest of the positively  चार्ज  part of the  अणु  remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined .
The 1904 Thomson  मॉडल  was disproved  by  the 1909 gold foil experiment of Hans Geiger and Ernest  मार्सडेन  .
This  थी  interpreted by Ernest Rutherford in 1911
to  imply  a  very small nucleus of the atom containing a  बहुत  high  धनात्मक  charge  (   in   the  case of  सुनहरा   ,   पर्याप्त   to  balance about  100  electrons ) , thus leading to  the  Rutherford  मॉडल  of the atom .
Although gold has an  परमाणु  number of 79 ,  तत्काल  after Rutherford 's paper appeared in 1911 Antonius Van den Broek made the  सहज   सुझाव   कि  atomic  क्रमांक  is nuclear charge .
The matter  जरूरी  experiment to  decide   .
हेनरी  Moseley 's  कार्य  showed experimentally in  1913  ( see Moseley 's  विधि   )  that  the   प्रभावी   नाभिकीय   चार्ज  was very  बंद  to the atomic number  (  Moseley found only one unit  अंतर  ) ,  और  Moseley referenced  तभी  the  papers   of  Van  डेन  Broek  और   रदरफोर्ड   .
This work culminated in  the  solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited  )  Bohr model of  the  atom  in  the same year ,  in   जिससे  a nucleus containing an  परमाणु   क्रमांक   of  positive charge is surrounded  by   an  equal  क्रमांक   of  electrons in orbital shells  .
Bohr had  भी  inspired Moseley 's work .
thomson  's model was  compared  ( though  नहीं  by Thomson  )  to  a  British dessert called plum pudding , hence the name  .
thomson   's  paper was published in the March 1904 edition  of   the   philosophical   पत्रिका   ,  the leading British  विज्ञान  journal of the day .
In Thomson 's  दृश्य  : ... the atoms  of   the  elements consist of a  क्रमांक   of  negatively electrified  corpuscles  enclosed in  a  sphere of uniform positive  विद्युतीकरण  ,  ...
In this model  ,  the  electrons  were free to rotate within the blob or cloud of positive substance .
ये   orbits   यहूद  stabilized in  the   मॉडल  by the fact  कि  when an  इलेक्ट्रॉन   स्थानांतरित  farther from  the   बीच   of  the positive cloud ,  it  felt a larger net positive inward force ,  क्युकी  there  थी  more material of  विपरीत  charge ,  अंदर  its orbit (  देखिए  Gauss  's   विधि  ) .
In Thomson 's  मॉडल  ,  electrons  were  फ़्री  to rotate  in  rings which  यहूद  further stabilized by  interactions  between the  electrons  ,  और  spectra  यहूद  to be  accounted  for  by  energy  मतभेद   of  different  रिंग  orbits  .
Thomson attempted to make his model  खाता  for some of  the  major spectral  लाइनों  known for some elements , but  थी   नहीं   notably  successful at this .
Still  ,  Thomson 's model ( along with a similar  saturnian  ring  मॉडल   लिये  atomic  electrons  ,  भी  put  आगे   in  1904  by   nagaoka  after  जेम्स  Clerk Maxwell 's model  of   शनि   's  rings ) , were earlier harbingers of the later and more  कामयाब   solar-system-like  Bohr  मॉडल   of  the atom .
ठेठ  strip of bacon .
Bacon  is  a  cured   मांस  prepared from a pig  .
It is first cured using  विशाल  quantities of salt  ,  either  in  a brine or in a  शुष्क   पैकिंग  ;  the  result  is  fresh bacon  (  also known as green  बेकन  ) .
Fresh bacon may then be further dried for weeks or months  in  cold  एयर   ,  or  it  may  be  boiled or smoked .
Fresh and  सूखी   बेकन  is typically cooked before eating .
Boiled bacon  is   तैयार  to  खा   ,   as   is  some smoked bacon , but may be cooked further before eating .
Bacon is  prepared  from several different cuts of meat .
it   is   प्रायः  made from side and back  कटौती   of   पोर्क  , except  in   the  United States  ,  where  it   is  almost always prepared  इससे  pork  पेट  ( typically referred to  as  `` streaky '' , `` fatty  ''   ,  or `` American style '' outside of  the  US  और  Canada ) .
The side  काटें   रै   अधिक  meat and less  मोटे   than   the   पेट   .
Bacon may be  prepared   इससे   either  of  दो   पृथक  back cuts : fatback , which is almost pure  मोटे   ,   और  pork loin ,  जिससे  is very  झुकना  .
Bacon-cured  पोर्क  loin is known as back  बेकन   .
Uncooked pork belly bacon strips  .
Bacon may be eaten smoked , boiled , fried  ,  baked , or grilled , or used as a minor  संघटक   to  flavor dishes  .
Bacon is also  प्रयुक्त  for barding and larding roasts , especially game , e.g  .   venison  , pheasant .
the   शब्द  is derived  इससे   the  Old High  जर्मनी   bacho  , meaning  ``  buttock '' ,  ``  ham  ''  or `` side of bacon ''  ,  and cognate with the  बूढ़ा  French  बेकन   .
In continental Europe , this part of  the   सुअर   is  usually not  स्मोक्ड  like  बेकन  is  in  the United States  ;  it is  प्रयुक्त   primarily  in cubes  (  lardons ) as a cooking ingredient , valued both as a source  of  fat and for its  स्वाद  .
In  इटली   ,   इस  is  पुकारा  pancetta  और   is  usually cooked  in  small cubes or served  uncooked  and thinly sliced  as  part of an antipasto  .
मांस  from other animals  ,   ऐसे   as  beef , lamb , chicken  ,   बकरी  , or turkey  ,  may  भी  be cut  ,  cured  ,   or   वरना  prepared to resemble bacon , and may  भी  be referred to as  ``  bacon  ''  .
Such  उपयोग  is common in areas with  significant  Jewish  और  Muslim populations  .
The USDA defines  बेकन  as  ``  the cured belly of  a  swine  carcass   ''   ;  other cuts  और  characteristics  जरूर  be separately  योग्य  ( e.g. , `` smoked pork  loin   बेकन   ''  ) .
For safety , bacon  जरूर  be treated to prevent trichinosis , caused  by  Trichinella , a parasitic roundworm which can be destroyed by heating , freezing , drying , or smoking  .
Bacon is distinguished  इससे  salt pork and ham by differences  in  the brine (  or  dry packing )  .
Bacon brine  रै   added  curing ingredients  ,  most notably  सोडियम   नाइट्राइट  ,  और   occasionally  sodium nitrate or potassium  नाइट्रेट  (  साल्टपीटर  ) ; sodium ascorbate or erythorbate are added to  accelerate  curing and stabilize color .
Flavorings such as brown sugar  or  maple  हैं  used for some products  .
If used  ,  sodium  polyphosphates  are  added  to  improve  sliceability and reduce  spattering  when the bacon is pan  fried   .
Today , a brine  लिये  ham ,  लकिन   नहीं  bacon , includes  a   विशाल  amount of sugar  .
Historically  ,   ``   हैम  '' and `` bacon '' referred  to  different cuts of meat that were brined or  packed  identically , often together in the same barrel .
The  कर्मचारी  Retirement Income  सुरक्षा  Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) ( ,  संहिताबद्ध  in part  at  ) is  a  federal  विधि  which  establishes  minimum standards  लिये  pension plans  in  private industry and provides for extensive rules on  the  federal income tax effects of  ट्रांजेक्शन   संबद्ध  with  कर्मचारी   लाभ  plans .
ERISA was enacted to protect the interests  of  employee benefit  योजना   भागीदार  and their beneficiaries by:
Requiring  the  disclosure of  वित्तीय  and  अन्य  information concerning  the  plan  to   beneficiaries  ;
Establishing standards  of  conduct for plan fiduciaries  ;
Providing  लिये  appropriate  remedies  and access to  the  federal courts .
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the full  देह  of laws regulating  कर्मचारी  benefit plans  ,  which are found  मुख्यतः  in the Internal Revenue Code  और  ERISA itself  .
Responsibility for  the  interpretation  और  enforcement of  erisa  is divided among the Department of Labor , the Department of the Treasury ( particularly the Internal Revenue Service )  ,   और  the  पेंशन  Benefit Guaranty Corporation  .
Illegal immigration to the  संयुक्त   राज्य  is the act of foreign  नागरिकों  entering  the  United States  ,  without government permission  और  in violation of United States  राष्ट्रीयता   विधि   ,  or staying  परे  the  termination  date of a  वीज़ा  , also in violation  of  the law .
a  warning  चिह्न  at the international boundary  between   the  United States  और  Canada  in  Point  रॉबर्ट्स  , Washington .
a   much  different  दृष्टिकोण  at  the   u.s.-mexico   किनारा  near El Paso , Texas
the  undocumented  अप्रवासी  population  of   the  United States  in  2008  थी  estimated  by  the Center  लिये   आव्रजन   अध्ययन  to  be  about 11 million people , down from 12.5 million people  in  2007 .
Other estimates range from 7  to   20  million  .
according  to a 2005 Pew  हिस्पैनिक  Center report  ,   56   %  of undocumented immigrants  यहूद   इससे  Mexico ; 22  %   यहूद  from  अन्य  Latin American countries ; 13  %   यहूद  from Asia ; 6 %  यहूद  from Europe and Canada ; and  3   %  were  इससे  Africa  और  the rest of the  संसार  .
Alvin Independent School  ज़िला   is  a school district based in Alvin  ,   टेक्सास  ( USA  )  .
Alvin ISD  is   a  large  suburban  school district south of Houston in the communities of Alvin  ,  Manvel ,  pearland  ,  hillcrest  , Rosharon ,  आयोवा  Colony , Liverpool  ,   और  Amsterdam .
AISD  serves  Pearland city 's  rapidly  growing western  portion  of the city including the  नई   विशाल  master-planned communities of  छाया  Creek Ranch  ,  South Fork  ,  and Southern  trails   .
Alvin ISD covers of  जमीन  .
In human  anatomy   ,  the ulnar nerve  is  a nerve  जिससे   रनों  near the ulna  अस्थि  .
the  ulnar  collateral  ligament of  कोहनी  joint is in relation with  the  ulnar nerve .
The nerve  is  the largest unprotected nerve in  the   इंसान   देह   (  meaning unprotected by muscle  or  bone ) , so  चोट  is common .
इस   तंत्रिका   is   सीधे   कनेक्ट  to  the  little finger  ,  and  the   सटा  half of the ring  उंगली  , supplying the palmar  पक्ष   of   ये  fingers , including both front and back of the tips ,  शायद  as far back as the  fingernail  beds .
One  विधि  of injuring  the  nerve  is   to   स्ट्राइक  the medial  epicondyle  of the humerus from  posteriorly  , or inferiorly with  the  elbow  flexed  .
The  ulnar  nerve is trapped between the bone and the overlying skin at  इस  point .
इस   is   commonly  referred to  as  bumping one 's `` funny  अस्थि   ''  .
This  नाम  is thought to be a pun  ,   आधारित   on  the sound resemblance between the name  of   the   अस्थि   of  the upper arm  ,  the `` humerus  ``  and the word `` humorous  ``   .
Alternatively , according  to  the  ऑक्सफोर्ड  English  शब्दकोष   it  may  refer  to `` the peculiar  सनसनी  experienced when  it  is struck '' .
हॉग्वार्ट्स  School of Witchcraft and Wizardry  ,  shortened Hogwarts , is a fictional  अंग्रेजों   स्कूल  of magic  लिये  students  aged   ग्यारह  to  अठारह   ,  and is  the   प्राथमिक  setting for  the  first  छह  books in  j.K.  Rowling 's  हैरी  Potter  श्रेणी   .
Rowling has suggested that she  may  have inadvertently taken the name from the  hogwort  plant  (  Croton capitatus  )  , which she had  देखी  at Kew Gardens  कुछ  time  पहले  writing the series , although the names `` The Hogwarts '' and ``  hoggwart  ''  appear   in  the 1954 Nigel  molesworth  book How To Be  topp  by  geoffrey  Willans .
Hogwarts school was voted as  the  36th best  स्कॉटिश  educational  स्थापना  in a 2008  ऑनलाइन  ranking ,  outranking  Edinburgh 's Loretto  स्कूल   .
According to  a   निदेशक  of  the   स्वतंत्र  Schools Network Rankings  ,  it  थी  added  to   the   स्कूलों  listing  ``  for  मजा  '' and was then  voted  on  .
The U.S. subprime mortgage crisis was a set of  कार्यक्रम   और   शर्तें   कि   led  to  a  financial crisis and subsequent recession  कि  began  in  2008 .
It  थी  characterized by  a   वृद्धि  in  subprime  mortgage  delinquencies   और  foreclosures  ,  and the resulting decline  of   प्रतिभूति  backed  by  said mortgages  .
अनेक  major financial institutions  collapsed  in September 2008 , with significant  disruption  in the  प्रवाह  of  क्रेडिट  to  व्यवसायों  and  उपभोक्ता  and the onset of a severe global recession  .
वहीँ  were  अनेक  causes of the  संकट  , with  टीकाकारों   assigning  different levels of blame to financial institutions , regulators  ,  credit agencies  ,  government housing policies  ,  and  उपभोक्ता   ,  among others .
A proximate  कारण   थी  the rise in  subprime  lending .
The percentage  of  lower-quality subprime  mortgages  originated  दौरान  a  दिए  year  रोज़   इससे  the historical  8   %   or  lower range to approximately 20 %  इससे   2004  to 2006 , with  much  higher  ratios  in some  भाग   of  the U.S  .
a  high  प्रतिशत   of  these subprime mortgages  ,   over   90  % in 2006 for example , were adjustable-rate  mortgages   .
These two changes were part of a broader trend  of  lowered  lending  standards  और   higher-risk  mortgage products .
further  , U.S. households had become increasingly  ऋणी  , with the  अनुपात  of debt to disposable personal income  उठती  from 77  %  in  1990  to  127   %  at the end  of  2007  ,  much of this increase mortgage-related .
जब  U.S.  घर  prices declined  steeply  after peaking  in   mid-2006  , borrowers ' ability to refinance their loans  became  more difficult .
as  adjustable-rate mortgages began  to  reset at higher interest rates (  causing  higher monthly payments ) , mortgage delinquencies soared .
Securities backed  साथ  mortgages  ,   सहित  subprime mortgages ,  widely  held  by   वित्तीय  firms globally  ,  lost most of their value  .
Global  निवेशकों  also drastically reduced purchases  of  mortgage-backed debt and other securities as  भाग  of a decline in the  क्षमता   और  willingness of  the   निजी  financial system to support lending .
Concerns about  the   soundness  of U.S.  क्रेडिट  and financial  बाज़ार  led to tightening  क्रेडिट  around the world and  slowing   आर्थिक  growth  in  the U.S. and  यूरोपीय  .
The crisis  था   कठोर  , long-lasting consequences for the U.S. and European economies .
The U.S. entered a  गहन  recession ,  साथ   nearly   9  million  कार्य   खोया  during 2008 and  2009  , roughly  6  % of the workforce .
U.S. housing prices  गिरी   nearly  30 %  on  average and the U.S. stock market fell approximately 50  %  by  जल्दी  2009 .
as  of early 2013 , the U.S. stock market had  बरामद   to  its pre-crisis  शिखर  but housing  कीमतें  remained near  उनके  low point  और  unemployment remained  elevated  .
आर्थिक  growth remained below pre-crisis levels .
यूरोपीय   भी  continued to  संघर्ष   साथ  its own  आर्थिक  crisis .
कार्ल   जंग   in  1910 .
Myers  और  Briggs extrapolated their  mbti  theory from  जंग   's   कृतियाँ   in  his book Psychological  प्रकार   .
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator  (   mbti  ) assessment is a psychometric questionnaire designed  to  measure psychological preferences in  कैसा  people  perceive  the  संसार  and  मेक  decisions .
ये  preferences were extrapolated from  the   typological  theories proposed by Carl Gustav  जंग   और   पहला  published  in  his  1921  book Psychological  प्रकार   (  English  संस्करण  , 1923  )  .
जंग  theorized that there are  चार  principal psychological functions  by  which we experience  the  world : sensation , intuition , feeling , and  सोच   .
One  of   ये  four functions is dominant most of the time .
The original developers of the  व्यक्तित्व   inventory  were Katharine Cook Briggs and her daughter  ,   इसाबेल  Briggs Myers  ;  these  दो   ,  having studied  extensively   the  work  of  Jung , turned  उनके   ब्याज  of human behavior  into  a devotion  of   turning  the theory of psychological types to  व्यावहारिक  use .
They began  बनाना  the  indicator   दौरान  World War  ii  , believing  कि  a knowledge of personality  वरीयताओं  would help women who were entering the industrial  workforce  for the first time to  पहचानो  the  sort  of war-time  कार्य  that would be  ``  most comfortable and effective '' .
The  आरंभिक  questionnaire grew into the  myers-briggs  Type Indicator ,  जिससे  was  पहला   प्रकाशित  in  1962  .
The MBTI focuses on normal populations and emphasizes the value of naturally occurring  मतभेद  .
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo  मानना  `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is  कि  we  सब  have specific preferences in the way we construe our experiences , and these preferences underlie  हमारी  interests  ,   needs   ,  values , and motivation ''  (  p. 499 )  .
``  Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga ,  इससे  her  दूसरी  studio album Born This  रास्ता  ( 2011 )  .
It  थी  released by  interscope  Records on April 15 , 2011 ,  चार  days ahead of its  अनुसूचित   रिलीज  .
लिखा  and produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne ,  ``  Judas  ''  is a  नृत्य  and  इलेक्ट्रो  house  सोंग  about a woman  in  love with  a  man who betrayed  उसके   .
It  embodies   the  incidents that have haunted Gaga in  the  past ,  और  its  कोर  meaning  refers   to  the negative  भाग   of  her  जीवन   कि   वो  ca  n't  escape .
गागा  has further  समझाया  that the song was also about  honoring  one  's   भीतरी  darkness in  अनुक्रम  to  लाओ  oneself  into  the  लाइट  .
The  कलाकृति   लिये   the  single was  designed  by  गागा  in Microsoft Word .
in  spite of a polarizing  प्रभाव   on  several religious groups , the song was  generally  well  प्राप्त   by   आलोचकों  , who  likened  the song to `` Bad Romance ``  साथ   कुछ  noting it should have been the album 's lead single .
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks , including `` Poker  फेस  `` , `` LoveGame ``  ,  `` Bad  रोमांस   ''  , and `` Alejandro ``  .
It contains three distinct  hooks   और  a house -influenced break down  .
गागा  explained  कि  the lines  बोला  during the  विश्लेषण  talk  परिचय   उसके   as  beyond  मोचन  ,  regarding  the traditional views of what  a   स्त्री  should be .
``  यहूदा   ''   initially   था  a strong sales opening , but was less  कामयाब   commercially  in comparison  to  Gaga 's  पिछला  singles .
The song reached the top ten of  the  charts  in  most major music markets , and  भी   पहुँचे  the top of  the   चार्ट  in  दक्षिण   कोरियाई  .
A music video for  the   सोंग   थी  filmed  in   अप्रैल  2011  ,   co-directed  by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring  नॉर्मन   reedus   .
it  has a Biblical storyline where  reedus  played Judas  इस्कैरियट  and Gaga  निभाई  Mary Magdalene .
The video portrays  उन्हें  as modern  दिन  missionaries  going  to Jerusalem .
It included the Biblical story  of  Judas  betraying  Jesus  ,  and ended with Gaga as  magdalene   getting  stoned to death  .
पहले  its  रिलीज   ,  the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged use of religious imagery  और  her  भूमिका  in the video .
However , critics generally praised the video  ,  not  ढूंढना  any  अप्रिय  content .
the  video was nominated  लिये  two awards  at  the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards .
Gaga has performed  ``  Judas '' on a number of  टेलीविज़न  shows , including The Graham Norton  दिखाएँ  , Saturday Night Live  ,  Good Morning  americas  `` Summer  कॉन्सर्ट   श्रेणी  ''  ,   the  French  x   फ़ैक्टर  as well  as  on The Ellen DeGeneres Show .
Marvin Gaye  (   अप्रैल  2  ,  1939April  1  , 1984 ) , born Marvin  pentz  Gay ,  jr.   ,  was  an  American  singer-songwriter  and musician .
gaye   helped  to shape the sound of  motown   रिकॉर्ड   in   the   1960s  with a string of  हिट्स  including `` How  मीठी  It  is  ( To  be  Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard  it  Through the  grapevine  `` and duet recordings  साथ  Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell ,  बाद  earning  the  titles  ``  Prince of Motown ''  और  ``  प्रिंस  of Soul '' .
During the 1970s , Gaye recorded the concept  एल्बम   कया   's  Going  on  and Let 's  मिलेंगी   it   on  and  became  among the  पहला  artists  in  Motown to  ब्रेक   दूर   इससे  the  बागडोर  of its  उत्पादन   कम्पनी   .
Gaye 's  बाद  recordings influenced  अनेक  R & B subgenres such as quiet storm  और  neo-soul  .
following  a period  in   यूरोपीय  under  a  tax exile in the  जल्दी  1980s  ,  Gaye released the 1982  ग्रैमी   award-winning  hit `` Sexual  healing  `` and the Midnight  प्रेम  album .
Since his death  in   1984  , Gaye has been  मरणोपरांत  honored by  अनेक  institutions , including the  ग्रैमी  Lifetime Achievement  पुरस्कार  and  the  Rock and  फेंकें  Hall of  कीर्ति  .
the   अकादमी   पुरस्कार   लिये  Best  चित्र  is  एक  of the  अकादमी  Awards of Merit  प्रस्तुत   annually   by  the Academy  of  Motion Picture  कला  and  sciences   (   ampas  )  to   निर्माता  working in the motion picture industry and is the only category  in  which every member is  योग्य  to  मनोनीत  for .
Best  चित्र  is considered the  सबसे  important  of  the Academy Awards , as  it  represents all  the  directing , acting  ,  music  composing  , writing  ,  editing and other efforts  put  forth  into  a  फिल्मी  .
Consequently , Best Picture is  the  final  पुरस्कार  and the conclusion of the  सालाना  Academy Awards ceremony .
the   ग्रैंड  Staircase columns  at  the Dolby  थिएटर  in Los Angeles  ,   जहाँ   the  Academy  पुरस्कार  ceremonies  have  been held since  2002   ,   शोकेस  every film  कि  has won  the  Best  चित्र   शीर्षक  since the  पुरस्कार   's  inception 85  सालो   पहले  .
भारी   बरसात  is  an  interactive drama action-adventure video game created by French developer Quantic Dream exclusively  लिये  the  प्लेस्टेशन  3 .
The game is written  और   निर्देशित  by Quantic Dream 's founder and  सीईओ  David Cage .
Heavy Rains story  is  a  नाटकीय  thriller modelled  बाद  film noir , featuring four  protagonists  involved with the  रहस्य   of  the Origami Killer  ,   a  serial  कातिल  who  उपयोग  extended periods  of   वर्षा   to  drown his victims .
Ethan Mars  is   trying  to save his  बेटे  from being the next  शिकार  , while  investigative  journalist Madison Paige ,  एफबीआई  profiler  नॉर्मन  Jayden  ,  and private detective Scott Shelby are  प्रत्येक  trying to track  bas  clues  to   the  Origami  कातिल  's identity .
The player interacts  साथ  the game by  performing   क्रियाएँ  highlighted on screen related to motions on the  नियंत्रक  , and in some  मामले  , performing a series of quick time events  दौरान  fast-paced action sequences .
The player 's decisions and actions during the game  होगा   affect  the narrative .
The main  वर्ण   can   be   मारे  , and certain actions may lead  to   अलग  scenes and endings .
A playable demo was released on 11  फ़रवरी  2010  .
The demo  थी   released  prior to this  तिथि  for people who took part  in  a Four Day Challenge  on  5 February 2010 .
a  patch to allow use  of  the PlayStation Move controller to  खेल  the game  थी  released  in  September 2010 .
Heavy Rain  थी   critically  acclaimed and has sold over  दो  million copies .
It won 2010 's Game of  the  Year from  सीएनएन  and  गेमिंग   संघ  , and  बेहतरीन  PS3 Game of 2010 by  gamespy  and IGN .
a  modified  संस्करण   of  the game was released  titled  Heavy Rain Edition Modifiée exclusively in France  ,  aimed  towards  a  younger   दर्शक   .
In 2010  ,  the game was included in  the   किताब   1001  Video  खेल  You Must Play Before You Die .
कुल  superannuation  उद्योग   देनदारी  : members funds  और  reserves  (  A $ millions  )  since  1988  .
Annual total superannuation  उद्योग  asset  विकास   1996-2005  .
superannuation  in Australia refers  to  the arrangements which people make in Australia to  have   निधि  available for them in retirement .
In Australia , superannuation  इंतजाम   हैं  government-supported  और   प्रोत्साहित  , and  न्यूनतम  provisions are compulsory for employees .
For example , employers  हैं  required to pay a proportion  of  an employee 's salaries  और   मजदूरी  ( currently 9 %  )  into a superannuation fund ,  लकिन  people are encouraged to put aside  अतिरिक्त  funds  into  superannuation .
The minimum obligation  जरूरी   by  employers  is  set  to  increase to 12 % gradually stepping  annually  from 2013 to  2020  .
An individual can  withdraw   निधि  out of  a   superannuation  fund  जब  the person meets  एक  of the conditions of release contained in  अनुसूची  1  of  the Superannuation  उद्योग  (  पर्यवेक्षण  )  regulations   1994  .
इस  is  a  list of the characters  इससे  the American comedy-drama  टेलीविज़न  series The  खेल  .
चुनावी  College map  प्रर्दशित   the  results  of   the   2012  U.S.  अध्यक्षीय  election .
अध्यक्ष  Barack Obama  (  D  -   il  )  जीती  the popular vote in  26  states and the District  of   कोलंबिया  (  denoted   in  blue  )  to capture 332  चुनावी  votes .
Former  राज्यपाल   mitt  Romney ( R -  ma  ) won  the  popular vote  in  24  राज्य  ( denoted in  रेड  ) to capture  206  electoral votes .
Cartogram representation of the  चुनावी   कॉलेज  vote for the 2012 election  ,   साथ  each square representing one electoral  vote  .
The United States Electoral  कॉलेज  is  the  institution that officially elects the  अध्यक्ष  and Vice President  of  the United States every four years .
The President  और  Vice President are not elected directly by  the   मतदाता  .
बजाय  , they are  निर्वाचित   by  ``  निर्वाचक  '' who are chosen by popular vote  on  a state-by-state  आधार   .
निर्वाचक   हैं   apportioned   to  each state and the District of Columbia ,  लकिन   नहीं  to  territorial   possessions  of the United States , such  as   प्यूर्टो  Rico and Guam .
The number of  निर्वाचक  in each state is  बराबर  to the number of members  of   कॉंग्रेस  to which the state is entitled .
The Twenty-third  amendment  has always resulted in  the  District  of  Columbia  having   तीन  electors .
वहीँ   हैं   538  electors  ,  based on there being  435   प्रतिनिधि  and 100 senators ,  प्लस  the  तीन  electors from  the   ज़िला   of   कोलंबिया  .
निर्वाचक   हैं   pledged   to  particular presidential and vice presidential  उम्मीदवार  , though unpledged  निर्वाचक  are possible .
In all states ,  मगर  Maine and Nebraska , electors  हैं  elected on  a  `` winner-take-all  ''  basis  .
That is , all electors pledged  to  the presidential  प्रत्याशी  who wins the most votes in a  राज्य  become electors for that state  .
Maine and  नेब्रास्का  use  the  ``  congressional   ज़िला  method '' , selecting  एक  elector  भीतर  each congressional district by popular  vote  and  selecting   the  remaining two  निर्वाचक   by  a  राज्यव्यापी  popular  vote  .
Although  no   elector   is  required  by   संघीय  law to  सम्मान   a  pledge  ,  there  have  only been very  few  occasions  जब   an   elector  voted contrary to a  प्रतिज्ञा  .
The Twelfth Amendment specifies how a President and Vice President are elected  और   requires  each elector  to  cast  एक   vote  for  अध्यक्ष  and  another  vote for  वाइस  President .
Critics argue that the Electoral College is  inherently   undemocratic   और  gives  झूले  states disproportionate influence in electing the President and Vice President .
The Electoral  कॉलेज  gives a  न्यूमेरिक   लाभ   in   the  election of the president to the  छोटी   राज्य  , as  the   न्यूनतम  number  of  electors for the small states is three compared to one for the election of representatives .
On the other hand , the winner-take-all  विधि  of voting favors the larger states .
A number  of  constitutional amendments have been proposed seeking  to   alter  the Electoral College  or  replace  it  with a direct  लोकप्रिय  vote .
Barack Hussein Obama  ii   (  ; born August 4 , 1961 )  is  the 44th  और  current  अध्यक्ष  of the United States  ,  the first African American  to  hold the office .
born   in  Honolulu  ,  Hawaii  ,   ओबामा  is  a   ग्रैजुएट  of Columbia  विश्वविद्यालयों  and  हार्वर्ड   विधि  School  ,  where  he  was president of  the   हार्वर्ड   विधि  Review .
He was  a  community  आयोजक   in  Chicago before earning his law  उपाधि   .
he   worked   as   a   सिविल  rights  attorney  in  शिकागो  and taught  संवैधानिक  law at the University of  शिकागो   विधि   स्कूल  from 1992  to  2004  .
He served  तीन  terms representing the 13th District  in  the Illinois Senate  इससे  1997 to 2004 , running unsuccessfully for  the  United States House of Representatives in 2000  .
In  2004  , Obama received national attention during  उसके   अभियान  to  represent   इलिनोइस   in  the United States  सीनेट  with  उसके  victory in  the   कूच   लोकतांत्रिक   पार्टी  primary  ,   उसके   keynote  address at the Democratic  नेशनल  Convention  in   जुलाई  , and his election to the Senate in November .
he  began  उसके   अध्यक्षीय  campaign in  2007   ,  and in 2008 , after a close  प्राथमिक  campaign against Hillary Rodham Clinton , he won sufficient delegates  in   the  Democratic Party primaries to receive the presidential nomination .
he  then defeated Republican  nominee  John McCain  in  the  सामान्य  election  ,  and  थी  inaugurated as president  on   जनवरी  20 , 2009  .
नौ   महीने  later , Obama  थी  named the  2009  Nobel Peace Prize laureate .
He  थी  re-elected president in November 2012 , defeating Republican nominee Mitt Romney , and was sworn in for a  दूसरी  term on  जनवरी  20  ,  2013  .
Early in his first term in office ,  ओबामा  signed into law economic  stimulus   विधान  in response to the  ग्रेट  Recession in  the  form of the  अमरीकी  Recovery  और  Reinvestment Act of  2009  and  the  Tax Relief , Unemployment  बीमे  Reauthorization , and Job Creation Act of 2010  .
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency include the  रोगी   सुरक्षा   और  Affordable  परवाह  Act , often  referred  to as ``  obamacare   ''   ;   the   dodd–frank  Wall  गली  Reform and  उपभोक्ता   सुरक्षा   अधिनियम  ; the  do  n't  पूछो   ,  Do n't Tell  repeal  Act of 2010 ; the  बजट  Control Act of  2011  ;  और  the American Taxpayer Relief  अधिनियम   of   2012  .
in  May 2012 ,  he  became the  पहला  sitting U.S.  अध्यक्ष  to  सरेआम  support same-sex marriage and in  2013  his  प्रशासन   दायर  briefs which urged the  परम्  Court to rule in favor  of  same-sex couples in two high-profile cases .
In foreign policy , Obama ended  u.S.  military involvement in the Iraq  युद्ध  ,  increased  troop levels in Afghanistan , signed  the  New START arms control  सन्धि  with Russia ,  ordered   u.S.  military involvement in  लीबिया  , and  ordered  the military operation  कि  resulted  in  the death of Osama  बिन   लादेन   .
The Honda CBR1100XX Super Blackbird  थी  a Honda motorcycle  बना  from  1996  to 2007 .
the  bike was  विकसित  to challenge  the   कावासाकी  Ninja ZX-11 as the world 's  तीव्रतम   उत्पादन  motorcycle , and Honda succeeded with a  शीर्ष  speed  of   .
Two years  बाद   the  title passed  to   the   suzuki  Hayabusa ,  जिससे  reached  .
The Blackbird is named after  the  Lockheed SR-71 ,  भी  a  गति  record holder .
Sample  दृश्य  of an electronic health record based on images
Sample view of an electronic health record
An electronic  स्वास्थ्य  record ( EHR )  is  an evolving concept defined  as   a  systematic collection of  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  health  सूचना  about  व्यक्तिगत  patients or populations  .
it  is  a  record in  डिजिटल  format that is theoretically capable of being shared  आरपार  different health care  जमावट   .
In some cases  इस  sharing can occur  by  way of  network-connected  enterprise-wide information  प्रणालियों   और  other  सूचना  networks or exchanges  .
EHRs  may   शामिल  a range  of  data  ,  including demographics , medical  इतिहास  , medication  और   allergies   ,   immunization   औकात  , laboratory test results , radiology images ,  vital   लक्षण   ,  personal stats like age and weight ,  और   बिलिंग  information .
The  मेरिनर  up on the  mast  in a storm  .
One of the wood-engraved illustrations by Gustave Doré  .
The  rime  of the Ancient Mariner (  originally   the  Rime of the  ancyent  Marinere ) is  the  longest major  कविता  by the  अंग्रेज़ी  poet Samuel  टेलर  Coleridge , written  in  1797–98  और   प्रकाशित  in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical  ballads   .
आधुनिक   संस्करण  use a  बाद   संशोधित   संस्करण  printed  in  1817 that  प्रदर्शित   a  gloss .
Along  साथ   अन्य  poems  in  Lyrical  ballads  , it was  a  signal shift to modern poetry and the beginning of  अंग्रेजों  Romantic literature  .
A proxy  auto-config   (  PAC  )  file defines how web browsers and other  उपयोक्ता  agents can  automatically  choose the appropriate proxy  सर्वर  ( access method ) for fetching a given URL  .
A  pac  file contains a JavaScript function “FindProxyForURL  (  url , host ) ”  .
This  फलन   रिटर्न  a string with  एक  or more access method  विशेषताएँ   .
These specifications cause the user agent to  उपयोग  a particular proxy server or  to  connect  सीधे  .
अनेक  specifications provide a fall-back  जब  a  प्रॉक्सी   fails  to  respond  .
The  ब्राउजर  fetches this PAC file  पहले  requesting other URLs .
the  URL of  the   pac  file is  either   विन्यस्त   हस्तचालित  or  संकल्पित  automatically by the Web Proxy  autodiscovery  Protocol  .
Zendaya Coleman  (  born September 1 ,  1996  ) , known mononymously as Zendaya , is  an  American actress , singer  और  dancer  .
she stars  on  the Disney Channel sitcom Shake It  up  as Rocky  ब्लू  .
She  रै   स्ट्रक्चर  in two films and played one of  the  lead roles in the film Frenemies  as  Halley  ब्रैंडन   .
She voiced Fern  in  the Pixie Hollow Games .
She  appeared  in  शुभ   लक  Charlie as Rocky  ब्लू  and in a Good Luck  चार्ली   और   शेक  It  up  crossover title Charlie Shake  it   up  .
She appeared on PrankStars as herself  in  the episode `` Walk  the   शरारत   ''  and on A.N.T  .   फार्म  as Sequoia Jones in the episode `` Creative ConsultANT  .  ''
Zendaya is also  a   संगीतकार   .
She  हस्ताक्षरित  a deal  साथ  Hollywood  रिकॉर्ड  on August 8  ,  2012 and  प्रारंभ   रिकॉर्डिंग   गीतों  for her  डेब्यू  album  on  August 12 ,  2012  .
She released  a  single  इससे   an  independent label  पुकारा  `` Swag It Out  ``  and another  सिंगल   साथ  Bella Thorne  पुकारा   ``  Watch Me , '' which  is   प्रदर्शित   on  the Break It  bas  album .
On March  20  , 2012  ,   zendaya  and Bella Thorne  released   an  album together called  शेक  It Up  :  Live  2   नृत्य  , each have  उनके   अपना  song on  it  ,  साथ  with a  mash-up  of  दोनो  songs  साथ  as one .
On August 21 , 2012 , Zendaya  और   बेला  Thorne released an EP called  शेक  It Up : Made In  जापानी   .
zendaya  has  a  Christmas song called  ``   शेक   सांता  Shake , '' which  is  on  the   डिज़्नी   चैनल  Holiday Playlist CD , which  थी  released  on   अक्तूबर   2   ,  2012 .
On March 5 , 2013  the  third  शेक   it   up   साउंडट्रैक  was released , entitled I < 3 Dance ;  on  it , Zendaya has  दो   गीतों   साथ  Bella - `` Contagious  प्रेम  '' and `` This Is My Dance  मंजिल  '' - as  खूब  as  एक  solo song , `` Beat of My Drum . ''
This is  a   सूची   of  airports in Pennsylvania ( a U.S.  राज्य  ) , grouped by type  और  sorted by  स्थान  .
it  contains  सब  public-use and military airports in the  राज्य  .
Some private-use and former  एयरपोर्ट  may be included where notable  ,  such as airports that were previously  public-use  , those with commercial enplanements recorded  by  the FAA or airports assigned an IATA  विमानक्षेत्र  code  .
iOS (  previously   iphone  OS ) is a  मोबाईल  operating system  विकसित  and distributed by  ठहराना   inc  . Originally released in  2007   लिये  the iPhone and iPod Touch platforms  ,  it  रै  been  विस्तारित   to  support  अन्य   ठहराना   डिवाइस  such  as   the  iPad  और  Apple TV .
Unlike Microsoft  's  Windows Phone and Google 's Android , Apple  करता   नहीं   अनुज्ञा   आईओएस   लिये   संस्थापना  on non-Apple  हार्डवेयर   .
,  Apple 's  app  Store  contained  more than  700,000  iOS applications ,  जिससे  have collectively  महरूम  downloaded more than 30 billion times .
It  था   a  21 % share of the smartphone mobile  ऑपरेटिंग  system units  shipped   in  the fourth quarter  of  2012  ,  behind only Google 's Android  .
In June 2012  ,   it  accounted  लिये  65 % of  मोबाईल   वेब   आंकड़ा   खपत   (   सहित  use on  दोनो   the  iPod Touch and  the  iPad ) .
At  the   हाफ  of 2012  ,  there were 410 million devices  activated   .
According  to   the  special media event held  by  Apple on September 12 , 2012  ,   400  million devices have been sold  through  June 2012 .
The  उपयोक्ता  interface of iOS  is   आधारित  on  the   अवधारणा  of direct  हेरफेर  , using  multi-touch   इशारों  .
इंटरफ़ेस  control elements consist  of  sliders , switches ,  और   बटन  .
Interaction with the OS  शामिल  gestures such as swipe  ,  tap  ,  pinch ,  और  reverse  पिंच  , all of which have specific definitions within  the  context of the  आईओएस   ऑपरेटिंग  system and its multi-touch interface  .
आतंरिक   accelerometers  are used  by  some applications  to  respond  to  shaking the device ( one  आम  result  is  the undo command  )  or rotating it in three dimensions ( one common result is switching from portrait to landscape mode  )  .
आईओएस  is derived from OS X ,  साथ   जिससे   it  shares the Darwin  न्यास  .
iOS is Apple  's  mobile version  of   the   os  X  ऑपरेटिंग  system  प्रयुक्त  on Apple computers  .
in  iOS , there  हैं  four abstraction  परतों  : the Core OS layer ,  the  Core Services layer  ,  the Media  परत   ,  and  the  Cocoa  टच  layer  .
the  current  संस्करण  of the  ऑपरेटिंग   प्रणाली   (  iOS 6.1.3  )   dedicates  1-1.5 GB  of  the device 's flash memory for  the   प्रणाली   विभाजन   ,   using   roughly   800  MB  of  that partition  (   varying  by model )  लिये  iOS itself .
आईओएस   फिलहाल  runs on iPhone  ,   ipad   ,  iPod touch and Apple TV  .
The  plymouth  Superbird  is  famous for  इसके  extremely high  पश्च  wing .
1987 Audi  खेल   quattros1  with  इसके  large wings at Pikes Peak
A spoiler  is   an  automotive aerodynamic device whose intended  डिज़ाइन  function is  to  'spoil ' unfavorable  एयर  movement  आरपार  a body  of  a vehicle in  गति  , usually described as turbulence  or  drag  .
विघ्न   on  the front  of  a vehicle are often called  एयर   dams   ,  because in addition to  directing   एयर  flow they also  reduce   the   राशि  of  एयर   बहती  underneath  the  vehicle which  generally   reduces   aerodynamic  lift and drag  .
Spoilers are  प्रायः  fitted to  रेस  and high-performance  खेल  cars  ,  although  वे  have  become  common on  यात्री  vehicles as well  .
Some  विघ्न  are added  to  cars primarily for  स्टाइलिंग   उद्देश्य  and  have  either little aerodynamic benefit  or  even make the aerodynamics  बदतर  .
Spoilers for cars are  प्रायः  incorrectly  उलझन  with ,  or  the term used  interchangeably  with  ,  wings  .
Automotive  विंग्स  are devices whose  intended   डिज़ाइन  is  to  generate downforce  as  air  गुजरता  around them  ,   नहीं  simply disrupt  मौजूदा   airflow  patterns .
Mario , who serves  as   निन्टेंडो   's  mascot , is a  fictional  character created by game designer Shigeru  miyamoto   और  voiced by Charles Martinet  .
This is a list of video games where the  अक्षर  Mario plays  a  part , either  as  the  समर्थक  , antagonist  ,  supporting character , as  भाग  of an ensemble  डाल  , as a cameo ,  or   in  a game  भीतर   a   खेल  .
it  does not include simple  सन्दर्भ   to  the character , such as the portraits  of  Mario found in  the  Legend of Zelda :  a  Link to the  पास्ट  .
The year indicated  is  the year the  खेल   थी  first released  ,   सबसे   commonly   in  Japan ; games were sometimes released years later  in   अन्य  regions of  the  world .
the   सूची  includes  पोर्ट   ,   remakes   और   compilations   .
It does n't include any Virtual  कंसोल  re-releases .
``  Man  of  Constant  विषाद  ''  (  also known as `` I Am A Man  of   निरंतर  Sorrow '' ) is a traditional American  लोक  song  पहला  recorded  by  Dick Burnett ,  a  partially blind  fiddler  from Kentucky  .
The song was  originally   अंकित   by  Burnett as  ``  Farewell Song '' printed in a  रिचर्ड  Burnett songbook  ,   circa  1913 .
An early version was  अंकित   by   emry   आर्थर  in 1928 ( Vocalion Vo 5208 )  .
पब्लिक  interest in the song  थी   नवीनीकृत  after the release  of  the 2000 film  o  Brother , Where Art  thou   ?
,   as  it  plays   a  central  भूमिका  in  the   फिल्मी  's plot  .
The song was also included in  the  film  's  highly successful  ,   multiple-platinum  selling  साउंडट्रैक  .
Josephson junction  सरणी  chip developed by the National Bureau of Standards  as   a   मानक  volt
the  volt ( symbol :  v  ) is the SI derived unit  लिये  electric potential ( voltage ) , electric potential difference , and electromotive  फ़ोर्स  .
the  volt  is   नामित   in  honor of the Italian physicist Alessandro Volta ( 1745–1827 ) ,  जो  invented the  वोल्टायिक  pile  ,   संभवतः   the  first  रासायनिक   बैटरी   .
A plaque commemorating the location of  the  Sarajevo assassination and steps  of   gavrilo   princip  ( image taken in 1987 ,  पहले   कदम  were removed  in  1992 and plaque changed  इससे  Cyrillic  to  Latin script )
a   प्लैक   commemorating   the  location of the  साराजेवो  assassination ( image taken  in   2009  )
On 28 June  1914   ,  Archduke  फ्रांज  Ferdinand of Austria , heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne , and his  बीवी   ,  Sophie , Duchess  of  Hohenberg , were shot dead in Sarajevo ,  by  Gavrilo  princip   ,   एक  of a  समूह  of  छह  Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated  by   डेनियल   ilić  .
The political objective of the assassination was to  ब्रेक  off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces  so   वे  could be combined into a Greater Serbia  or   a  Yugoslavia  .
The  हत्यारे   '  motives  यहूद  consistent with  the   गति  that later became known as Young Bosnia  .
सर्बियाई  military officers  stood   पीछे  the attack .
at  the top of these Serbian military  षड्यंत्रकारियों   थी   मुख्य   of   सर्बियाई  Military Intelligence Dragutin  dimitrijević   ,  his  righthand  man Major Vojislav Tankosić , and Masterspy  rade   malobabić  .
Major Tankosić armed the  हत्यारे  with bombs  और   pistols  and trained them .
The assassins were given  अभिगम   to   the  same  clandestine  tunnel of safe-houses and agents that Rade  malobabić  used for the infiltration of weapons  और  operatives into Austria-Hungary .
the  assassins  ,  the  कुंजी  members  of  the  clandestine   टनल   ,  and the  कुंजी  Serbian  सैन्य   षड्यंत्रकारियों  who were still  जिंदा  were arrested , tried  ,   convicted  and punished  .
Those  जो   यहूद  arrested  in  Bosnia were tried  in  Sarajevo in  अक्तूबर   1914   .
the  other conspirators were arrested and tried before a  सर्बियाई  kangaroo court on the  french-controlled  Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges  ;   सर्बिया   चलाया   तीन  of  the  top military conspirators .
Much of what is known  परिचय  the assassinations comes from these two trials and  सम्बन्धित  records .
Assignment of responsibility  लिये  the bombing and murders  of  28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to  the  outbreak of World War I one month later .
Mission  सैन  Juan  capistrano  was a Spanish mission  in   दक्षिणी  California , located  in   present-day  San Juan Capistrano  .
it  was founded on  सब   संतो  ' Day November 1 ,  1776  ,  by   स्पेनी  Catholics of the  franciscan  Order .
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano  ,  a  15th  century  theologian  and  ``   योद्धा   पुजारी   ''   जो   resided  in the Abruzzo  प्रदेश  of  इटली   ,  San  जुआन  Capistrano  रै   the  distinction of being  घर  to the oldest building in California still in  उपयोग  , a chapel built in 1782  .
ज्ञात  alternately as `` Serra 's Chapel  ''  and `` Father Serra 's Church , '' it is the  तभी  extant structure where  it  has been  प्रलेखित   कि  the padre Junipero Serra  मनाये  mass .
एक   of  the best known of the Alta California missions ( and one of the  few   मिशन   to  have actually been founded twice—others being Mission San Gabriel Arcángel and Mission  la  Purísima Concepción  )  .
The site  थी  originally  consecrated  on  अक्तूबर  30 ,  1775  ,  by   पिता  Fermín  lasuén   ,  but was quickly abandoned due to unrest among  the  indigenous  जनसांख्यिकी  in  सैन  Diego .
the  success of  the  settlement  is   evident  in its historical records  .
prior   to  the  आगमन   of  the missionaries  ,   कुछ  550  natives  were scattered  throughout  the  लोकल   क्षेत्रफल  .
by   1790   ,  the  क्रमांक  of converted Christians had grown  to  700 , and  बस  six years later  nearly  1,000 ``  neophytes  ``  (  recent  converts   )   जिया   in  or around  the   मिशन  compound  .
1,649 baptisms  यहूद  conducted  कि  year alone , out  of  the  कुल  4,639  souls  converted between 1776 and  1847  .
More than 2,000  पूर्व  inhabitants ( mostly Juaneño Indians ) are buried  in  unmarked  क़ब्रों   in   the  Mission 's cemetery ( campo  सेंटो  ) .
The remains of  पिता  (  बाद   monsignor  ) St. John O'Sullivan ,  जो   पहचाना   the  property 's  ऐतिहासिक   मान  and  working  tirelessly to  conserve  and rebuild  इसके  structures ,  हैं  buried  at   the  entrance  to  the cemetery  on  the  वेस्ट  side of the property , and a  प्रतिमा  raised  in   उसके  honor stands at  the   सिर   of  the crypt .
The surviving  चैपल  also serves  as  the final resting place of  तीन   पैड्रेस   जो  passed on while  सेवारत  at the Mission :  fathers  José  barona  , Vicente Fustér  ,  and  विसेंट  Pascual Oliva are  सब  entombed  beneath  the sanctuary  मंजिल   .
the  Criolla or  ``  Mission grape , '' was first planted  at  San Juan  capistrano  in  1779  ; in 1783 , the first  वाइन  produced in  alta  California emerged from  the  Mission 's winery .
The  मिशन   डाला   a   long   काल   of   क्रमिक  decline after  secularization  in 1833 .
numerous  efforts were made  over   the  years to restore  the  Mission  to  its former glory , but  none   मिले  with  ग्रेट  success  जबतक  the arrival of Father  o'sullivan  in 1910 .
Restoration efforts continue , and `` Serra 's  चैपल   ''   is  still used for religious services  .
परिचय   half-a-million   विज़िटर   ,  including 80,000 school children , come to the Mission each year .
And while the ruins of `` The  ग्रेट  Stone Church  ''   (  which was all but  leveled  by  an  1812  भूकंप  ) are a renowned  architectural  wonder  ,  the Mission is  शायद  best known  लिये  the annual `` Return of the  दात  ''  जिससे  is traditionally  observed   प्रत्येक  March  19   (  Saint  जोसेफ  's  दिन  ) .
Mission San Juan  capistrano  has  परोसा  as  a   पसंदीदा   विषय  for  अनेक  notable artists  ,   और  has been  immortalized   in  literature and on film numerous times , perhaps  अधिक   than  any other mission .
in  1984 , a modern church complex was constructed just north and west of the  मिशन  compound  और  is  अभी   ज्ञात  as Mission Basilica San Juan Capistrano  .
आज  , the  मिशन  compound serves as  a  museum , with the Serra  चैपल  within the  यौगिक  serving as a  चैपल  for the mission parish  .
Better Off Dead is a 1985 American teen  रोमांटिक  comedy  फिल्मी  starring  जॉन   cusack   और  written  और  directed  by  Savage Steve Holland .
it  tells the story of high school  छात्र   लेन   myer   जो   is  suicidal after  उसके   गर्लफ्रेंड  breaks up with him .
Mercedes-Benz Superdome (  originally  Louisiana Superdome and commonly The Superdome ) is a  खेल  and exhibition  स्टेडियम   ,  located in the Central Business District of New Orleans  ,   louisiana  , USA .
योजनाएँ  were drawn  up  in 1967 ,  by   the  New Orleans modernist architectural  कड़  of  कर्टिस   और   डेविस  .
Its steel  फ़्रेम   कवर   a  expanse .
Its dome  is  made of a  lamella  multi-ringed frame and has  a  diameter  of  , making  it  the largest  फिक्स्ड  domed  ढांचा  in the  संसार  .
It is home to the  एनएफएल  's  नई  Orleans Saints  ,  the NCAA 's Division  i-a  Tulane Green Wave football team ( the largest football stadium in Conference USA ) , the State Farm Bayou  क्लासिक   ,  the R+L Carriers New Orleans Bowl , the Allstate Sugar Bowl  और  ,  प्रत्येक   चौथी  year ,  the  BCS National Championship  खेल  .
Because of the  आकार  and location  in   एक  of the major tourist destinations  in  the United States , the Superdome  routinely  makes the  ``  short list '' of candidates being considered  लिये  major  sporting  events  ,  such as the Super  कटोरी   और  the Final Four  .
In  2005  , the Superdome gained  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  attention of  a   अलग   प्रकार  when it housed thousands  of  people seeking shelter from  hurricane  Katrina .
the  building  suffered  extensive damage as a result  of  the  तूफ़ान   ,  and was  बंद  for many  महीने  afterward .
On October 3 , 2011  ,   it  was announced that German automaker Mercedes-Benz purchased naming rights to  the   स्टेडियम   .
the  new  नाम  took effect on October 23  ,  2011 .
It is the third stadium that has  नामकरण   अधिकारों   इससे  Mercedes-Benz  (  and first  in  the United  राज्य  )  ,  after  the   mercedes-benz  Arena , the stadium  of  Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart  ,   in  Stuttgart , Germany  और  the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai ,  चीन   .
Lobby  of  Jambo  हाउस
Giraffe on  the  savannah at Jambo  हाउस
Disney  's  Animal Kingdom  आवास  is an African-themed deluxe resort at  the  Walt Disney  संसार   रिज़ॉर्ट  .
It opened on April 16 , 2001  .
the   रिज़ॉर्ट  is owned and operated by  वॉल्ट  Disney Parks and  रिसॉर्ट  .
Disney  's   एनिमल   किंगडम  Lodge is located  in   the  Animal  किंगडम  Resort  क्षेत्रफल  ,  सटा  to Disney 's  एनिमल   किंगडम  .
It gives guests the opportunity to  दृश्य   चरने  wildlife outside their rooms and public  क्षेत्रों  in the resort  भीतर  proximity  of  the animals ,  conveying  the feeling of  होने   in  an  अफ़्रीकी   सवाना  .
The People  's  Party  ,  also known as  the  `` Populists '' ,  थी  a  short-lived   राजनैतिक  party in the United States  स्थापित   in  1891  दौरान  the Populist  गति  (  संयुक्त  States ,  19th   सदी  ) .
It was  सबसे  important  in   1892-96   ,  and  तब   rapidly  faded away .
Based among  ग़रीब  , white  कपास   किसानो  in  the  South (  विशेषकर   उत्तर  Carolina , Alabama  ,  and Texas ) and hard-pressed wheat farmers in the  मैदान   राज्य  ( especially Kansas and Nebraska ) , it represented  a  radical crusading form of  agrarianism   और   दुश्मनी  to banks  ,   railroads  ,  और  elites generally .
it  sometimes formed coalitions  साथ  labor unions , and in 1896 the  डेमोक्रेट  endorsed  उनके  presidential nominee , William Jennings  ब्रायन  .
the  terms  ``   populist   ''  and `` populism  ``   हैं  commonly used for anti-elitist appeals in opposition  to  established interests and mainstream parties .
भाषाई  map  of   सीरियल  , Cameroon , and  बेनिन  .
Sign in  अंग्रेज़ी   ,   बाहर   the  University of  लागोस
There are hundreds of languages spoken in  सीरियल  .
The major languages are Yoruba ,  हौसा   ,  Igbo , Edo , Fulfulde ,  कनूरी   ,   और  Ibibio .
the  official language of Nigeria , English  ,  the former colonial language  ,  was  चुनी   to  facilitate  the  cultural  और   भाषाई  unity of  the  country  .
English , however ,  remains  an exclusive preserve  of   the  country 's urban elite ,  और   is   नहीं  widely  बोला  in  ग्रामीण  areas  ,   जिससे  comprise  तीन  quarters of the countries population .
सीरियल  's linguistic diversity  is  a microcosm of  अफ़्रीकी  as a whole  ,  encompassing three  प्रमुख   अफ़्रीकी  languages  परिवारों  : Afroasiatic  ,   nilo-saharan   ,  and  niger–congo   .
सीरियल   भी  has  अनेक  as-yet unclassified languages , such  as  Cen Tuum  ,   जिससे  may  represent  a relic of an  भी  greater  विविधता  prior to the  स्प्रेड   of  the  वर्तमान   भाषा   परिवारों  .
A series of events led to the attack  on   पर्ल  Harbor .
युद्ध  between Japan and  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  had been  a  possibility  कि  each  स्वदेश   's  military  शक्तियां   नियोजित   लिये  since  the   1920s  , though real  टेंशन  did  नहीं   शुरू  until the 1931 invasion  of  Manchuria by Japan .
over  the  अगला   दशक   ,  Japan expanded slowly  into  China  ,   अग्रणी   to  all out war  between  the two  in  1937  .
in  1940 Japan invaded French Indochina  in  an effort to embargo all imports into  चीन  , including  युद्ध  supplies purchased  इससे   the  U.S .
This move prompted  the   संयुक्त  States  to  embargo all oil exports  ,  leading  the  Imperial Japanese  नेवी  to estimate that it had less than two  सालो   of   बंकर   आयल  remaining and  to   support  the existing  योजनाएँ  to seize oil resources  in  the Dutch  ईस्ट   इंडीज  .
नियोजन   था  been underway  लिये   कुछ  time on  an   आक्रमण   on   the  `` Southern Resource  क्षेत्रफल  '' to add it to the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity  गोला  that Japan envisioned in the Pacific  .
the   फिलीपीन   आइलैंड्स   ,  at that time an  अमरीकी  territory , were  भी   a  Japanese target  .
The Japanese military  concluded   कि  an invasion of the Philippines would provoke an  अमरीकी   सैन्य  response .
Rather  than   seize  and fortify the  आइलैंड्स   ,  and wait for the  अपरिहार्य   us   counterattack  , Japan 's military leaders instead decided  on  the pre-emptive Pearl Harbor attack  ,   जिससे  they assumed would  negate  the American forces needed for the liberation and reconquest of the islands .
Planning  लिये  the attack had  begun  in very early  1941  ,  by   admiral  Isoroku Yamamoto .
He finally won  assent   इससे  the  नवल  High  कमांड  by , among other things , threatening  to   इस्तीफा  .
the   आक्रमण  was  स्वीकृत  in the summer  at  an Imperial Conference and  again  at a second  सम्मेलन  in  the  fall .
Simultaneously over  the   साल   ,   पायलटों  were trained , and ships  prepared  for its  निष्पादन  .
Authority for the attack  थी  granted  at  the second  इम्पीरियल   सम्मेलन  if a  राजनयिक   परिणाम  satisfactory to Japan was not reached  .
बाद   फाइनल   स्वीकृति   by   सम्राट  Hirohito the order  to  attack was  जारी  at  the   शुरूआत  of December  .
A common  दफ्तर  stapler
a  common school stapler
A stapler is a  mechanical  device that joins sheets of paper or similar material  by  driving a  पतला  metal staple through the sheets and folding the ends  .
Staplers are  widely   प्रयुक्त  in  सरकारी  ,  कारोबार  , offices , homes and schools .
The  शब्द  ``  stapler  '' can actually refer  to  a  क्रमांक   of  different devices of varying  उपयोग  .
in  addition to joining paper sheets together , staplers  can  also  be  used in a surgical setting to join tissue together  साथ  surgical staples to close a surgical  घाव  (  much  in the same way as stitches  or  sutures  )  .
typically  , most staplers are  प्रयुक्त  to  जुड़ें  multiple  चादरें   of   पेपर  .
Paper staplers come in two  पृथक   प्रकार  :  हस्तचालित   और   इलेक्ट्रिक  .
हस्तचालित   staplers  are  सामान्यतः  hand-held , although models  कि   हैं  used  जबकि  set on a desk  or  other surface are not uncommon  .
इलेक्ट्रिक  staplers exist in  a  variety  of  different designs  और  models  .
उनके   प्राथमिक  operating function is to join  विशाल   संख्याएँ  of paper  चादरें  together in rapid succession .
कुछ   इलेक्ट्रिक   staplers   can  join up to 20 sheets at  a  time  .
swallowing  ,  ज्ञात  scientifically as deglutition  ,  is the process in the  इंसान   or  animal body that makes  कुछ  pass from  the  mouth , to the pharynx ,  और   into  the esophagus , while  shutting  the epiglottis  .
if  this fails  और  the  ऑब्जेक्ट  goes through the trachea , then choking  or  pulmonary  aspiration   can  occur .
in   the  human body it  is  controlled by  the  swallowing  reflex   .
Thaddeus Stevens (  अप्रैल  4  ,   1792  – August 11 ,  1868  )  ,  of  पेन्सिलवेनिया   ,  was a  नेता  of the  कट्टरपंथी  Republican faction of the Republican  पार्टी  and a  fierce  opponent of slavery .
He was  एक  of the most  influential   सदस्यों  in the history of  कॉंग्रेस   .
As chairman  of  the  शक्तिशाली  House Ways  और  Means Committee  ,  Stevens , a  witty  , sarcastic speaker and flamboyant  पार्टी  leader , dominated the  हाउस  from 1861  जबतक  his death  .
he  wrote much  of  the financial legislation that paid  लिये  the American Civil War .
Stevens and Senator  चार्ल्स   sumner  were the prime leaders of the Radical Republicans  दौरान   the   युद्ध  and Reconstruction era .
Scholarly views of Stevens have swung sharply since his death as  interpretations  of  पुनर्निर्माण  have  बदला  .
Historians of  the  Dunning School ( 1890s–1940s  )   आयोजित  Stevens  जिम्मेदार   लिये  demanding harsh  उपचार  of the  श्वेत   दक्षिण   और   violating  American traditions of  republicanism  , depicting Stevens as a villain for  उसके  advocacy of  हर्ष  measures  in  the South  ऐसे  as  disfranchising   सब  ex-Confederates  .
This  अत्यधिक  negative characterization held sway into  the  1950s .
The  वृद्धि   of   the  neo-abolitionist school  in  the  1950s   led  to  a   दमदार  positive  सराहना  of Stevens '  कार्य   on  civil rights for  freedmen  .
A recent biographer characterizes  उसे   as  ,  ``   the   ग्रेट  Commoner  ,  savior of free public  शिक्षा  in Pennsylvania  ,   नेशनल   रिपब्लिकन  leader  in   the  struggles  विरूद्ध  slavery  in  the United  राज्य  and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure racial  इंसाफ   लिये   the   freedmen  during Reconstruction , the only member  of  the House of  प्रतिनिधि  ever  to  have been known as the 'dictator ' of Congress . ''
अवलोकन   of  the translation of eukaryotic messenger  rna
आरेख  showing the translation of mRNA and the synthesis of  प्रोटीन  by a ribosome
in   आणविक  biology and genetics , translation is the process through  जिससे  cellular  ribosomes  manufacture  प्रोटीन  .
It  is  part of  the   प्रक्रम  of gene expression .
In translation , messenger RNA ( mRNA ) produced  by   ट्रांसक्रिप्शन  is decoded by the ribosome to produce  a  specific amino acid chain  ,  or  polypeptide  , that will  बाद  fold into an active protein .
In bacteria  ,  translation occurs  in  the cell 's cytoplasm ,  जहाँ   the  large  और  small subunits of the  राइबोसोम   हैं  located  ,  and bind to the mRNA .
In eukaryotes , translation  occurs  across the membrane of the endoplasmic  reticulum  in a process called  vectorial  synthesis .
The ribosome  facilitates  decoding by  inducing  the binding  of  tRNAs with complementary anticodon sequences to that of  the  mRNA  .
the  tRNAs  carry   विशिष्ट  amino acids that are chained together into a polypeptide as  the   mrna  passes  through  and  is   ``  read  ''  by the ribosome  in  a fashion reminiscent to  कि  of  a   भण्डार  ticker  और  ticker tape  .
In many instances , the  संपूर्ण   ribosome/mrna  complex binds  to  the outer membrane of  the  rough endoplasmic reticulum  और  releases  the  nascent protein polypeptide inside  लिये   बाद  vesicle transport and secretion outside of  the  cell .
Many  प्रकार  of transcribed RNA  ,  such  as   ट्रांसफ़र  RNA  ,  ribosomal RNA , and small  नाभिकीय  RNA ,  do  not undergo  अनुवाद   into  proteins  .
अनुवाद   proceeds  in four phases : initiation , elongation ,  translocation  and termination (  सब   describing   the   विकास  of  the   अमीनो   एसिड  chain , or polypeptide  कि  is the product of translation ) .
Amino  acids   हैं   brought   to  ribosomes and assembled into  प्रोटीन   .
In activation , the correct  अमीनो  acid is  covalently  bonded to  the  correct  ट्रांसफ़र  RNA  (  tRNA )  .
the  amino  एसिड  is joined by  इसके  carboxyl  समूह  to  the   3  '  oh   of   the  tRNA by an ester bond  .
When the  trna   रै  an  अमीनो  acid  linked  to it ,  it  is termed ``  चार्ज  '' .
दीक्षा   involves  the small subunit of the ribosome  बाइंडिंग   to   the  5  '  end  of  mRNA with the help  of  initiation factors ( IF )  .
termination  of the polypeptide happens  जब  the  a  site of the ribosome faces a stop codon ( UAA  ,   uag  , or  uga  )  .
no  tRNA  can   recognize  or  bind  to this  codon  .
Instead , the stop codon induces the binding of a release  फ़ैक्टर  protein  कि  prompts  the   disassembly  of the entire  ribosome/mrna   जटिल  .
a  number of antibiotics act by inhibiting  अनुवाद  ; these include anisomycin  ,  cycloheximide , chloramphenicol , tetracycline  ,   streptomycin  , erythromycin , and  puromycin  , among  अन्य  .
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a  अलग   ढांचा   इससे  that  of   eukaryotic  ribosomes  ,  and thus antibiotics can specifically target  बैक्टीरियल   infections  without any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells .
A multimedia message  on   a  mobile  फोन  .
Multimedia Messaging Service  (  MMS )  is   a  standard way to send messages that include multimedia content to and from  मोबाईल  phones  .
It extends the core SMS (  छोटी   संदेश  Service )  काबिलियत  that allowed exchange  of  text messages  तभी  up to  160   वर्ण   in   लंबाई  .
The most popular  उपयोग   is   to  send photographs from camera-equipped handsets , although it is  भी   लोकप्रिय   as  a method of delivering news and  entertainment   सामग्री  including videos  ,  pictures  ,  text pages and  ringtones  .
The standard is developed by the Open Mobile  गठबंधन  (  ओमो  ) , although during development  it   थी  part  of   the   3gpp  and WAP groups .
Smallpox was an infectious  बीमारी  unique to humans  ,  caused by either of two virus variants , Variola  प्रमुख  and Variola minor  .
The  बीमारी  is  भी   ज्ञात  by  the   लैटिन  names Variola or Variola vera , derived from  varius  (  ``   spotted  '' ) or varus ( ``  मुंहासे  '' ) .
The  बीमारी   थी   originally  known in English  as  the  ``   चेचक  '' or `` red  प्लेग  '' ;  the   पद  ``  smallpox  '' was first  प्रयुक्त   in   ब्रिटेन  in the 15th century to distinguish variola from the `` great pox  ''  ( syphilis  )  .
The  पिछला  naturally occurring case of smallpox ( Variola minor ) was diagnosed on  26  October  1977  .
smallpox  localized in small blood vessels of the skin and in the  मुँह  and  गला   .
In the skin it resulted in a  characteristic  maculopapular rash and ,  बाद  ,  उठाया  fluid-filled blisters .
V.   प्रमुख   produces   a  more  गंभीर  disease  और  has an overall mortality  रेट   of   30–35  % .
V.  minor  कल्याणकारी  a milder  रूप  of  बीमारी   (  also  ज्ञात  as alastrim , cottonpox , milkpox , whitepox , and Cuban  खुजली  ) which kills  परिचय  1 % of its  पीड़ितों  .
long-term   जटिलताओं  of V. major  संक्रमण  include  characteristic  scars  ,   commonly  on the face , which occur in 65–85 % of  survivors  .
Blindness resulting from  corneal  ulceration and scarring , and  limb  deformities due  to  arthritis and  osteomyelitis  are less common complications , seen in about 2–5 %  of  cases .
Smallpox is believed  to  have  उभरा   in   इंसान   populations  about 10,000  bc  .
The  earliest  physical  प्रमाण   of  it is  संभवतः  the pustular  खाज  on the  mummified  body  of  Pharaoh Ramses  v  of Egypt .
The  बीमारी   मारे  an estimated 400,000  europeans  annually during  the  closing  सालो   of  the 18th century ( including  पाँच  reigning  monarchs  ) , and was responsible  लिये   a   तीसरा  of all  दृष्टिहीनता  .
Of  सब  those infected , 20–60 % —and over 80  %  of infected children—died  इससे   the  disease  .
Smallpox was responsible for an  अनुमानित   300–500  million  मौतों   दौरान  the 20th century .
as  recently as 1967  ,  the World  स्वास्थ्य   संगठन  ( WHO ) estimated that 15 million people contracted the disease and  कि  two  लाख  died in that year  .
After vaccination campaigns  throughout   the  19th and 20th centuries  ,  the WHO certified the eradication of  smallpox   in  1979 .
Smallpox  is   एक   of  two infectious  रोगों  to  have  been eradicated , the other being rinderpest , which was declared eradicated in 2011 .
``   i  Want  to  Hold  अपना  Hand ''  is   a   सोंग  by  the   अंग्रेज़ी   चट्टान  band  the   बीटल्स  .
लिखा  by John  लेनन  and Paul  mccartney   ,   और   अंकित   in  October 1963  ,   it  was the first Beatles record to be made  using  four-track equipment .
With  अग्रिम  orders  exceeding  one  लाख  copies in the United  किंगडम  , `` I Want  to   थाम  Your  हाथ  ''  होता  ordinarily have gone  सीधा  to the top of  the  British record  चार्ट  on its  दिन  of  रिलीज  (  29  November  1963  ) had it not been blocked  by  the group 's first  लाख  seller ``  वो  Loves You `` , the Beatles '  पिछला  UK single , which was having a resurgent spell in  the   शीर्ष  position following  तीव्र   मीडिया  coverage of the group  .
Taking two weeks  to  dislodge its predecessor  ,  ``  i  Want  to  Hold  अपना  Hand '' stayed at number one  लिये   पाँच   सप्ताह  and remained in  the   uk   शीर्ष   पचास  for twenty-one weeks  in  total .
it   थी   भी  the group 's first American number one  ,  entering  the  Billboard Hot 100  चार्ट   on   18  January  1964  at number  forty-five  and starting the British invasion  of   the  American  म्यूज़िक   उद्योग  .
By 1 February it held the number one spot — for  सात  weeks — before  होने   replaced  by  ``  She Loves You '' ,  a  reverse scenario of  कया  had occurred in  ब्रिटेन  , and remained in the US  चार्ट  for  a  total of fifteen weeks .
`` I Want to Hold  अपना  Hand ''  became   the  Beatles  '  best-selling  सिंगल  worldwide .
A gasser was a type of hot  लाठी  originating on the dragstrips of the  संयुक्त  States  in  the late 1950s and continued until the early 1970s .
Gassers were based on production models from  the  1930s to mid-1960s ,  जिससे  have been stripped  of  extraneous weight  और   jacked  up using a  ट्रक  beam axle to provide  बेहतर  weight distribution on acceleration ( Beam  axles  are also  हल्का   than  an independent front suspension ) , though a raised stock front  बर्खास्तगी  is  आम  as well .
Common weight  कटौती  techniques include fiberglass  देह  panels  ,  stripped interiors  और  plexiglass windows (  sometimes   रंग   tinted  ) .
Because  वे  were primarily built  लिये  racing  ,  these cars  typically  had the engine swapped to a larger  or   अधिक  powerful  एक  ,  the  existing stock engine  परिवर्धित  ( often  heavily   )  or  दोनो  .
It was very common  to  fit a Roots supercharger and mechanical fuel injection ,  ऐसे  as one from  algon  , Hilborn , or Crower .
With form being dictated by function , their appearance is often very top heavy  और  ungainly  ,  largely  due   to   सामने  ends  होने  raised  उच्चतर  than stock , to assist  in   the  weight transfer during rapid acceleration ( racing  )  .
Having their exhaust  पाइप  exit through the front fender well  is  a  आम   characteristic  of gassers  ,   as   is  having bodies painted in flamboyant metalflakes , pearls , and candy  finishes  complemented  by  lettering in wild  फ़ॉन्ट्स  .
the  name  arose  because they competed in  a   गैसोलीन  -fueled  खीचें   रेसिंग   क्लास  , rather  than  one using methanol  or  nitromethane .
the   gasser  is the predecessor  of  the modern Funny Car .
Twelve-lead EKG of  a   26-year-old  male
Electrocardiography ( ECG or  ईकेजी  from )  is  a transthoracic ( across the thorax or  छाती  ) interpretation  of   the  electrical activity of the heart over a period of time , as detected by  electrodes  attached to the surface  of   the  skin and recorded by a device external to  the  body .
The recording produced  by   इस  noninvasive procedure is termed  an  electrocardiogram ( also ECG or EKG ) .
an  ECG is  प्रयुक्त  to measure the rate and regularity of  heartbeats   ,   as   खूब   as  the size and  स्थिति   of  the  कक्षों  , the presence  of  any damage  to  the heart , and the effects of drugs or  डिवाइस  used to  विनियमित  the  दिल   ,  such  as   a   pacemaker   .
Most ECGs  हैं  performed for  निदान   or  research purposes on  इंसान   दिल  , but may  भी  be performed on animals ,  प्रायः   लिये  diagnosis  of  heart  abnormalities  or research .
Donald John Trump ,  sr.  (  born  June  14   ,  1946 ) is an American business magnate , television personality and author  .
He is  the   अध्यक्ष  and president  of  The Trump Organization  और  the founder of Trump Entertainment Resorts .
Trump 's  हद   जीवनशैली   ,   outspoken   manner   ,  and role on  the   एनबीसी  reality  दिखाएँ  The  प्रशिक्षु  have  बना   उसे  a  well-known  celebrity who was No .  14  on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list .
ट्रम्प  is the son of  फ्रेड   ट्रम्प   ,  a wealthy  नई  York City  real-estate  developer .
he  worked for his father  's  firm , Elizabeth Trump &  बेटे   ,  while attending  the  Wharton School of the University of  पेन्सिलवेनिया   ,   और  in 1968  officially  joined  the  company .
He was given control  of  the company in 1971  और  renamed it The  ट्रम्प   संगठन  .
in   2010  ,  ट्रम्प   expressed  an  ब्याज  in becoming a candidate for  अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त  States  in  the  2012  election , though in May 2011 , he announced he  होता  not  be   a  candidate .
In December 2011 ,  ट्रम्प  was  सुझाया   as  a  संभावित  vice presidential selection by Michele Bachmann , if she were to win  the  Republican nomination .
`` A  बदलें   is  Gon na Come  ''  is a 1964 single  by  R & B singer-songwriter Sam Cooke , written  और  first recorded in 1963 and released under  the   आरसीए  Victor label shortly after his death in  लेट   1964  .
हालांकि   तभी  a  modest  hit for Cooke in comparison with his previous  singles  ,  the  song came to exemplify the  1960s  ' Civil Rights Movement .
the   सोंग   रै  gained in  लोकप्रियता  and  नाजुक  acclaim in the decades since  इसके  release , and  is   #  12  on  Rolling Stone  's  500 Greatest Songs  of  All Time .
भाप  rising from the Nesjavellir  geothermal  Power  स्टेशन  in Iceland .
Geothermal  उर्जा  is thermal energy generated and stored in the Earth  .
Thermal energy is the  उर्जा  that determines the  तापमान  of  पदार्थ   .
The Geothermal energy of the Earth  's  crust  originates  from the original formation of  the   ग्रह  ( 20  %  ) and from radioactive decay  of  minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal  अनुपात   ,  which is  the  difference in temperature between  the  core of  the  planet and  इसके  surface , drives  a  continuous conduction of thermal energy  in   the   रूप  of  ऊष्मा  from  the   कोर  to the  सतह   .
The adjective geothermal originates from the  यूनानी   जड़ें  γη ( ge ) ,  अर्थ   धरती  , and θερμος ( thermos ) ,  अर्थ   hot  .
at   the  core of the  धरती  , thermal energy is  निर्मित   by  radioactive decay  और  temperatures  may  reach over 5000 °C (  9,000  °F ) .
ऊष्मा  conducts  इससे  the core to surrounding cooler rock  .
the  high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt , creating magma  संवहन  upward  चूंकि  it is lighter  than   the  solid rock  .
the   मैग्मा  heats rock and water  in  the crust , sometimes  up  to  370  °C (  700  °F  )   .
From  hot   स्रोतों   ,   geothermal  energy has been  प्रयुक्त   लिये  bathing since Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman  टाइम्स  , but it is now better  ज्ञात   लिये   विद्युत  generation  .
विश्वव्यापी  ,  परिचय  10,715 megawatts  (  MW  )  of geothermal  शक्ति  is online in 24 countries .
an  additional 28  gigawatts  of direct geothermal heating capacity  is  installed for  ज़िला  heating  ,  space heating ,  स्पा  , industrial processes , desalination and agricultural applications .
Geothermal  शक्ति  is cost effective  ,   विश्वसनीय  , sustainable  ,  and environmentally friendly  ,  but  रै  historically been limited to areas near  tectonic  plate boundaries .
Recent  technological  advances have dramatically expanded the  दायरा  and size of  सुगठित  resources , especially for applications such as home heating  ,  opening a potential  लिये  widespread exploitation  .
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the  धरती  , but these emissions  हैं  much lower per energy unit than those of fossil  fuels   .
As a result  ,   geothermal   शक्ति   रै  the potential to  सहायता  mitigate global warming  if  widely deployed in  प्लेस  of fossil fuels  .
the  Earth  's  geothermal  संसाधन  are theoretically  अधिक  than adequate  to  supply humanity 's energy needs , but only a very small fraction  may   be  profitably exploited  .
Drilling  और  exploration for deep  संसाधन  is very expensive .
Forecasts for  the   भविष्य  of  geothermal  power depend  on  assumptions about  प्रौद्योगिकी   ,   उर्जा  prices , subsidies , and interest  दरों   .
Pilot programs like EWEB  's  customer opt in Green Power  कार्यक्रम  show  कि   ग्राहक  would  be   willing  to pay  a  little more  लिये  a renewable energy source  जैसे  geothermal .
But as a result of government  assisted  research and industry experience , the  लागत  of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades .
in  2001  ,   geothermal  energy  लागत  between two and ten cents per  सम्पात   .
Ownership  of   प्रॉपर्टी  may be private , collective , or  आम   और  the property may be  वस्तुएँ   ,  land/real  एस्टेट  , or intellectual property .
determining  ownership in law  involves  determining who has certain rights and  कर्तव्य   over   the  property .
These  अधिकारों  and  कर्तव्य  ,  sometimes  called a 'bundle of rights  '  , can  be  separated and  आयोजित  by different  पार्टियों   .
The question of ownership  पहुँच  back to the ancient  दार्शनिकों   ,  Plato and Aristotle , who held  अलग  opinions  on  the subject  .
प्लेटो  ( 428/427 BC  –  348/347 BC ) thought  निजी  property created divisive inequalities  ,   जबकि   अरस्तू   (  384 BC – 322 BC ) thought private property enabled  लोगों  to receive the  पूरा  benefit of  उनके  labor  .
Private property  can   circumvent  what is now referred  to   as  the  “  tragedy of the commons ”  प्रॉब्लम  , where  लोगों  tend  to  degrade  आम  property  अधिक  than they  do   निजी  property .
Given a  short-sighted  owner , however , a  निजी  property system can make these tragedies worse—for  उदाहरण   ,  a  निजी  owner of a  टुकड़ा  of  oil-rich   प्रॉपर्टी  , depending  on  his worldview , might be more  दिलचस्पी  in short-term financial gain than incremental use  साथ  an  नजर  toward  अन्य  's  चिंताएं  ( e.g. , those of future generations , the disenfranchised , etc .  )   .
While  अरस्तू  justified  the   अस्तित्व   of  private ownership  ,   he  left  खोलें   सवाल  of (  1  ) how to allocate property between what  is  private  और  common and (  2  ) how to allocate the private property within society .
Over the millennia  ,  and across cultures  कया   can  be property and how it is regarded  culturally  have  varied  widely .
Ownership is the basis for many other  अवधारणाओं  that form the  मूलाधार  of  प्राचीन  and modern societies such as money , trade  ,   कर्ज़   ,   दिवालियापन   ,  the  criminality  of theft  ,   और  private  vs.  public  प्रॉपर्टी  .
Ownership  is  the key  भवन  block in the development  of  the capitalist socio-economic system .
आदम   स्मिथ  stated that  एक  of the sacred laws  of  justice was  to  guard a person 's  प्रॉपर्टी   और  possessions .
the  process and mechanics of ownership  हैं   fairly   जटिल  : one  can  gain , transfer  और  lose ownership of property  in  a number of ways  .
To acquire property one can purchase  it  with money  ,  trade  it  for  अन्य   प्रॉपर्टी   ,   प्राप्त  it as a gift , steal it  ,   ढूँढें   it  , make , it or  होमस्टीड  it .
एक  can  ट्रांसफ़र   or   खोना  ownership of property by selling  it  for money , exchanging it  लिये   अन्य   प्रॉपर्टी  , giving  it   as  a gift , being robbed  of  it , it , or having  it   stripped  from one  's  ownership through legal means such as  eviction  ,  foreclosure  , seizure , or  लेने  .
Ownership is self-propagating in that  the  owner  of  any  प्रॉपर्टी  will  भी   अपना  the  आर्थिक   लाभ   of   कि   प्रॉपर्टी   .
`` What  's  My Name ?  ''  is  a  song recorded  by  Barbadian recording artist Rihanna , for her  पांचवां  studio album  लाउड  ( 2010 )  .
Featuring guest  vocals   इससे  Canadian rapper Drake ,  the   सोंग  was released as  the  second single from Loud on October 29 , 2010 through Def  jam  Recordings .
The R  &   b  song was  उत्पादित   by  the  नॉर्वेजियाई  production duo StarGate , and was written by the  duo  along  साथ  Ester Dean , Traci Hale  ,   और  Drake .
Lyrically , it incorporates themes of sexual intercourse  और  romance  .
Music critics gave  the  song  धनात्मक  reviews  ,  citing it some of  रिहाना   's   बेहतरीन  vocal work to date  ;   वहीँ  was a praise regarding  इसके   रोमांटिक   प्रकृति   ,  as well  as  its sexual tones .
``  कया  's My Name ?  ''   थी  a commercial success and  अव्वल  the  us  Billboard Hot 100  चार्ट  , giving  रिहाना  her third number-one single  in  2010 ,  as   खूब  as her eighth overall  on   the  chart  .
the  song also topped the charts  in   हंगेरियाई  and  the  United Kingdom  और  reached  the  top five  in  Canada , Ireland  ,  New Zealand , Norway  और  Slovakia  .
The song received a  नामांकन   at  the  54th  Grammy Awards for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration .
An  accompanying  music video  ,  directed by  फिलिप  Andelman  ,   portrays   a  romantic encounter between  रिहाना   और   ड्रेक   in   a  grocery store along with romantic scenes  between  the  जोड़ी   और  Rihanna walking through  मैनहटन  's Lower East Side .
`` What  's  My Name ? '' was promoted with  सजीव  performances across both sides of the Atlantic  ,   सहित   शनिवार   रात्रि  Live  in  America  और  the series seven  finale  of  the  X Factor in the  संयुक्त   किंगडम  .
The  latter   प्रदर्शन  resulted in  an  investigation from  the   देश  's media  नियामक  , Ofcom , for the  raunchy   प्रकृति  of Rihanna  's  outfit .
A mathematical constant is a  खास   क्रमांक  , usually a  रियल  number , that is  ``  significantly  दिलचस्प   in   कुछ  way '' .
Constants  उठता  in many different  क्षेत्रों  of mathematics , with  स्थिरांक  such as e  (  mathematical  निरंतर  )  |  and pi|  occurring   in  such diverse contexts as  भूगोल   ,   क्रमांक  theory and calculus .
What  it  means for a constant  to  arise  ``  naturally '' , and what makes a  निरंतर   ``   दिलचस्प  '' , is ultimately  a   पदार्थ   of  taste ,  और  some mathematical constants are notable more for historical reasons than  लिये  their intrinsic mathematical interest  .
The  अधिक  popular  स्थिरांक   have  been studied throughout the ages and  computed   to  many decimal places .
All mathematical constants are definable  संख्याएँ  and  प्रायः  are also  computable  numbers  (  Chaitin 's constant  होने   a  significant  एक्सेप्शन  )  .
Elections to the United  राज्य  Senate were held on  नवम्बर  2 ,  2010  , for 37 of the United States  सीनेट  's 100 seats .
(  A special  चुनाव   on  January 19 , 2010  in  Massachusetts  थी  held earlier in the year . )
thirty-four  of  the  seats were  लिये  six-year terms to the  सीनेट  's `` class three '' ,  और  three were  खास   चुनावों  for  shorter  terms .
Of  the  37 elections  ,  19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7 of whom retired  or  were defeated  in  the primary ) and 18 featured incumbent Republicans  (  eight of whom retired or  यहूद  defeated  in  the primary )  .
बाद   the  previous elections ( in 2008  )  , the United States Senate  थी  composed  of  58 Democrats , 40  republicans  , and 2 independents who caucus with the Democrats .
Republicans won  चार  seats held by retiring Democrats  और  Republicans defeated two incumbent Democrats .
This was the largest number of Republicans gains since  the  1994  चुनावों  and  भी   the  first  समय  since that election that Republicans successfully  defended   सब  of  उनके  own seats .
This was the fourth  लगातार   चुनाव  of  ``  class 3  ''  senators  जहाँ  Democrats have  विफल  to gain  सीटे  and  the   तीसरा   लगातार   mid-term  election held in  a  president 's first  पद   जहाँ   republicans  have picked-up  सीटे  .
Despite these Republican wins  ,  however ,  the  Democrats retained a majority of the Senate  साथ  51  सीटे   प्लस   2  independents who caucus  साथ   उन्हें   ,   compared   to  the 47  republicans  .
A  संक्रांति  is an  खगोलीय   इवेंट  that occurs  twice  each  साल  as the Sun reaches its highest or  न्यूनतम  excursion  सापेक्ष   to   the   celestial  equator  on   the   celestial   गोला  .
as   a  result , on the day of  the  solstice  ,  the Sun appears to have reached its highest or lowest annual altitude in the sky  ऊपर  the horizon  at  local solar noon  .
the  word solstice  is  derived  इससे  the Latin sol  (  sun ) and sistere (  to  stand still )  ,   क्युकी  at  the   solstices  , the Sun stands still in declination ; that is , the seasonal movement of  the  Sun 's path (  as  seen from Earth )  आता  to  a  stop  पहले  reversing direction .
The  solstices  , together with  the  equinoxes , are connected with the seasons .
In many cultures the solstices  चिह्नित  either the beginning or  the  midpoint  of  winter and summer .
The term  संक्रांति  can also be  प्रयुक्त  in a broader sense , as the  तिथि   (  day )  जब  this occurs  .
The  दिन  of the solstice is either the  longest  day of the year ( in summer )  or  the  shortest  day of the  साल  ( in winter ) for any place  बाहर  of the  ऊष्णकटिबन्ध  .
Jerry Lee  लुईस  (  born  September 29  ,  1935  )   is  an American  चट्टान  and roll and  देश   म्यूज़िक   singer-songwriter  and pianist  .
He is known by the nickname ``  the   कातिल  '' and is often viewed  as   “rock   &   फेंकें  's first great wild man” .
An early pioneer  of   चट्टान  and roll music  ,  in 1956  लुईस   बना  his first recordings at Sun Records  .
`` Crazy  बाहें  `` sold 300,000 copies  in  the  दक्षिण  , but  it  was his  1957  hit ``  पूरे  Lotta Shakin ' Going On `` that  शॉट  Lewis to fame  विश्वव्यापी   .
लुईस   followed  this in that same year when he recorded  गीतों   ऐसे  as `` Great  गेंदें  of  आग  `` ,  ``  Breathless ``  और  `` High School  गोपनीय  ``  .
Lewis sold more  रिकॉर्ड  than  एल्विस  Presley  at   इस  time .
However ,  लुईस   '  rock  'n   '  roll career faltered  in  the wake  of  his  विवाह  to his young  cousin  .
he   था  little success in  the  charts following  the   कांड  and  उसके  popularity quickly  धुंधली   .
His live performance fees plummeted from $ 10,000  प्रति  night to $ 250 .
in   the  meantime  he  was determined  to  gain back  कुछ  of his popularity .
दौरान  the early 60’s he did  n't   have  much chart success  साथ   few   अपवाद  such  as  `` What 'd I Say  ``   .
His live performances at  इस  time were increasingly  जंगली  and energetic .
उसके  album Live at  the  Star  क्लबों  ,  हैम्बर्ग   इससे  1964 is often regarded by many music  पत्रकारों  and  प्रशंसक  as one of the  wildest  and  महानतम   चट्टान  and roll concert albums ever  .
बाद   रिकॉर्डिंग  songs such  as  ``  i  'm  on  Fire '' for several years  साथ  little success , in  1968  Lewis made  a  transition into country music  और   था  hits with songs  ऐसे  as `` Another  प्लेस  , Another Time  ''  .
This  reignited  his career and  throughout   the  late '60s  और  '70s he regularly topped the  country-western   चार्ट  .
His #  1  country hits  शामिल  `` To Make Love Sweeter For  तुम   ``  , `` There Must  be  More  to  Love Than This  ``  ,  ``  Would You Take  another  Chance on  me  ``  और   ``  Me And Bobby McGee ``  .
लुईस  's successes continued  throughout   the  decade and he  embraced  his  चट्टान  'n ' roll  पास्ट   साथ  songs such as  a  cover  of  the Big Bopper 's `` Chantilly Lace `` and  ``   rockin  ' My  जीवन  Away `` .
In the  21st  century  लुईस  continues to tour to audiences around the world and still releases new  एल्बम  .
एक  such album ,  titled  Last  man  Standing , is  उसके  best selling  to  date  at   over  a  लाख  copies sold worldwide .
This was followed by  औसत  Old Man  जिससे  has  प्राप्त  some of  the   बेहतरीन   बिक्री  of  lewis’s  career .
Lewis has had  a  dozen  सुनहरा  records in both rock and country , won  अनेक   ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार  , including a Lifetime Achievement Award .
लुईस   थी  inducted into  the  Rock and Roll  हॉल   of  Fame in 1986 , and his pioneering  योगदान  to  the   विधा  has  महरूम   पहचाना   by  the Rockabilly Hall  of  Fame .
in  1989  ,  his  जीवन  was chronicled  in  the movie Great Balls of Fire , starring  डेनिस  Quaid .
In  2003  ,  रोलिंग  Stone Magazine listed his box set All  कातिल  , No Filler :  the   anthology   क्रमांक  242 on their  सूची  of ``  500  greatest  एल्बम   of   सब  time ``  .
In 2004 , they ranked  उसे   क्रमांक  24 on their list of the  100   महानतम   कलाकारों   of  All  समय  .
Lewis is the  पिछला   surviving  member  of  Sun Records  '  Million Dollar Quartet  और  the Class  of   '55  album , which also included  जॉनी  Cash ,  कार्ल  Perkins , Roy  orbison  and Elvis Presley .
हेनरी  Louis Stephens , untitled  watercolor  ( 1863  )  of a man  पढना  a newspaper  साथ   शीर्षक  `` Presidential Proclamation /  गुलामी  '' .
The  emancipation   उदघोषणा   थी   an  order  जारी  to  सब  segments of the Executive  शाखा   (   सहित  the  फौज   और   नेवी  )  of   the   संयुक्त  States by  अध्यक्ष   अब्राहम  Lincoln on  जनवरी   1  , 1863  ,  during the American Civil War  .
it   थी   आधारित  on the  अध्यक्ष  's  संवैधानिक  authority as commander  in   मुख्य  of the armed forces ; it was not a law passed by Congress  .
it  proclaimed all those  enslaved  in Confederate territory to be  forever  free , and  ordered  the Army (  और   सब  segments  of  the  कार्यपालिका   शाखा   )   to  treat as free all those  enslaved  in ten  राज्य  that were still in rebellion , thus applying to 3.1 million of the 4 million slaves in the U.S .
the  Proclamation could not be  enforced   in   क्षेत्रों  still  अंतर्गत   विद्रोह   ,  but as the army took control of  confederate  regions ,  the  slaves in those regions were emancipated rather  than  returned to their masters  .
इससे   20,000  to 50,000 former slaves in  regions   जहाँ  rebellion  था  already been subdued  यहूद   तत्काल  emancipated ,  और  over 3  लाख  more  यहूद   emancipated   as  the Union army advanced  .
The Proclamation did not apply to  the  five  स्लेव  states that were not in rebellion , nor to  सबसे  regions already controlled by the Union army  ;   emancipation  there would  आइये  after separate state actions  and/or  the December  1865  ratification of the  तेरहवीं  Amendment , which made slavery illegal everywhere in  the  U.S  .
The Proclamation  किया  not  compensate  the owners , did not itself outlaw slavery , and did not  मेक  the  ex-slaves   (   पुकारा  freedmen ) citizens  .
It  बना  the  eradication  of slavery an explicit war goal ,  in  addition to the goal of  reuniting   the   संघ  .
On  सितंबर   22  , 1862  ,  Lincoln  था  issued  a  preliminary proclamation that he would order the  emancipation  of all  स्लेव  in any state of the Confederate States of America that  किया  not return  to   संघ  control by  जनवरी  1 , 1863 .
None returned , and the order , signed and issued  जनवरी   1  , 1863 , took effect  मगर   in  locations  जहाँ  the  संघ   था  already mostly regained control .
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who  envisioned  a race war  ,   angered  some Northern  डेमोक्रेट   ,   सक्रिय  anti-slavery forces  ,  and weakened  शक्तियां  in Europe that wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy .
it  also lifted  the   आत्माओं  of African Americans  दोनो  in the  दक्षिणी  and  उत्तरी  States , and  led   to  many  स्लेव   escaping  their masters  और  running behind  संघ   लाइनों  in  अनुक्रम   to   have  their emancipation enforced  .
Sucker  पंच   is  a 2011 American fantasy action film directed by Zack Snyder and co-written by him and  स्टीव   शिबुया  .
It  is  Snyder 's first film  आधारित  on an  असली  script .
The  फिल्मी  stars Emily  ब्राउनिंग  ,  abbie  Cornish ,  जेना  Malone , Vanessa Hudgens ,  जेमी   चुंग   ,   और  Carla Gugino  .
The storyline  फ़ॉलो   the  fantasies of a young woman  जो  is committed to  a  mental institution  ,  as she  makes  a plan to  एस्केप   the  hospital before suffering a lobotomy  .
the  film was released in both conventional and  imax   थिएटर   in   the  United  राज्य  at  मध्यरात्रि   on   कूच  25  ,  2011  .
it  received  generally  negative reviews from critics , but  थी  a moderate  बक्सा   दफ्तर   कामयाबी  .
Front  और  back of Canon PowerShot A95  ,  a  ठेठ   pocket-size  digital  कैमरा
Haselblad 503CW  साथ   ixpress  V96C digital back , an example  of  a professional digital  कैमरा  system
a   डिजिटल  camera ( or digicam  )  is a camera that  takes   वीडियो   or  still photographs by recording images on  an  electronic  चित्र  sensor .
Most  कैमरे  sold  आज  are digital  ,  and digital cameras  हैं  incorporated into many devices ranging from  गुस्से   और  mobile phones  (   पुकारा  camera phones  )  to vehicles .
डिजिटल  and film cameras share an optical  प्रणाली   ,  typically  using   a   लेंस  with a variable diaphragm  to  focus light onto an image pickup device  .
The diaphragm and  शटर  admit the  सही  amount of light to the  imager   ,   बस   as  with film but the image pickup device is electronic rather  than  chemical .
However  ,  unlike film cameras , digital cameras can  प्रदर्शक  images on a screen  तत्काल  after being recorded , and store and  हटाएँ  images from memory .
अनेक   डिजिटल  cameras can also record moving  वीडियो  with sound  .
Some digital cameras can  क्रॉप  and stitch pictures and perform other elementary  चित्र  editing .
The inside and front of a  डेल   poweredge  web  सर्वर   ,  a  कंप्यूटर   designed   लिये  rack mounting
अनेक   वेब   सर्वर  may be used for a high traffic website  ,   यहाँ  four  सूर्य  Fire  x4200   सर्वर  are installed together
Web  सर्वर   can  refer to either the  हार्डवेयर  (  the  computer  )   or   the  software ( the  कंप्यूटर  application ) that helps to  उद्धार   वेब   सामग्री  that can be accessed  through  the Internet .
the   सबसे  common use of web  सर्वर  is  to  host  वेबसाइटों  ,  लकिन  there are other uses such  as   गेमिंग  , data  भंडार  or  कार्यशील   एंटरप्राइज़  applications .
the  American Red Cross ( ARC ) , also  ज्ञात  as the American  नेशनल  Red Cross , is a humanitarian  संगठन  that  provides  emergency assistance  ,   विपत्ति  relief and education  अंदर  the United States .
it   is   the  designated U.S. affiliate of the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Federation of Red Cross and  रेड  Crescent Societies .
आज  , in addition to domestic  विपत्ति  relief , the American  रेड   क्रॉस   offers  services in  पाँच   अन्य  areas :  जातियाँ  services  कि  help  the   मोहताज  ; communications  सेवाएं   और  comfort  लिये  military  सदस्यों  and their family  सदस्यों   ;   the   संग्रहण  , processing  और  distribution of blood and blood products  ;  educational  कार्यक्रम   on   preparedness  , health , and safety  ;   और  international relief and development  कार्यक्रम  .
Issued  a  corporate charter by the United  राज्य  Congress under Title 36  of   the   संयुक्त  States Code  ,   खण्ड   3001   ,  the American National Red Cross is governed by volunteers  और  supported by community  दान   ,  income from health and safety training and  उत्पाद  ,  और  income from blood products .
The American  रेड  Cross is headquartered in Washington  ,   d.c   .
the   अध्यक्ष  of the Board of  राज्यपालों  , serving her  दूसरी   three-year  term , is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter  .
the  current President and  मुख्य   कार्यपालिका  Officer is Gail J.  mcgovern  .
A rooster in Kosovo
A rooster  ,   प्रर्दशित  wattles ,  earlobes  and comb
A rooster crowing ( with audio )
right
A rooster ( also  पुकारा   a   cockerel  or cock  )  is a male  gallinaceous  bird  .
It usually  refers  to  a  male chicken ( Gallus gallus )  .
Immature male  मुर्गियों  less than one  साल  old are called cockerels  .
the  term `` rooster '' originates in the United  राज्य  , and  the   पद   is  widely used throughout North America  ,  as well  as   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and New Zealand .
In  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom and  आयरलैंड   the  older term `` cockerel ''  is  more  commonly   प्रयुक्त  .
`` Cock '' is in general  उपयोग   as  the  नाम  for a  पुरूष  of other species of bird  ,  for example ``  मुर्गा   गौरैया  ''  .
``  roosting  '' is the action of perching  aloft  to sleep at  रात्रि  ,  और  is done  by  both  लिंगों  .
The rooster is polygamous ,  लकिन  can not guard several  nests  of eggs at  एकबार  .
He guards  the  general area  जहाँ  his hens are nesting  ,   और  will  आक्रमण  other roosters that  डालें   उसके  territory  .
दौरान  the daytime  ,  he usually sits  on  a high  पर्च  , usually 3–5 feet  बंद   the   मैदान   to   serve  as a lookout  लिये  his flock  .
He  होगा  sound a  distinctive  alarm  कॉल  if predators are nearby  .
the  Pokémon  व्यापार   कार्ड   खेल  ( Pokémon TCG ) is  a   collectible  card game based on the Pokémon video game series  ,   पहला  published in  अक्तूबर  1996  by  Media Factory in  जापानी   .
In  the  US ,  it  was  initially  published by Wizards of the Coast , the company that  produces  ,  in  December  1998  .
Nintendo took  over  publishing in June 2003 .
It is one of Nintendo 's last  बाकी  strong  कड़ी   to  its heritage  as   a   playing  card  कम्पनी  .
Land Rover is  a   अंग्रेजों   car  manufacturer with its  मुख्यालय  in  gaydon   ,  Warwickshire , United Kingdom  जिससे   specialises   in  four-wheel-drive vehicles .
It is part of  the  Jaguar  जमीन  Rover group  ,  a  subsidiary  of Tata Motors of  इण्डिया  .
It is  the  second  oldest  four-wheel-drive  car  brand in the world ( after Jeep ) .
the  Land  रोवर   नाम  was originally used by the Rover  कम्पनी  for one  विशिष्ट  vehicle model , named simply  the  Land Rover , launched  by  Rover  in  1948  .
Over  the  following  सालो  it  विकसित  into a marque encompassing a range of four-wheel-drive models  ,   सहित  the Defender  ,  Discovery  ,  Freelander , Range Rover  ,  Range Rover Sport and Range  रोवर  Evoque  .
जमीन  Rovers are  फिलहाल  assembled  in  the  कम्पनी  's Halewood and Solihull  पौधे  , with  शोध  and development taking  प्लेस  at JLR 's  gaydon  and Whitley engineering centres  .
जमीन  Rover sold 194,000 vehicles  विश्वव्यापी  in  2009  .
Although the brand  originates  from the original 1948 model , Land  रोवर  as a company  रै   तभी  existed since 1978 .
Prior to this , it was a product line of the Rover Company  जिससे   थी  subsequently absorbed into  the  Rover-Triumph  प्रभाग  of  the  British  leyland  Motor Corporation ( BL  )   following  Leyland Motor Corporation ’s takeover  of  Rover in 1967 .
The ongoing commercial success of the original Land  रोवर   श्रेणी  models  ,  and latterly the Range Rover  in  the 1970s in  the  midst of BL’s well  प्रलेखित  business troubles prompted  the   स्थापना   of  a  पृथक  Land Rover company  लकिन  still  अंतर्गत  the  bl  umbrella ,  बाकी   भाग  of  the  subsequent Rover Group in  1988  ,  अंतर्गत   the   स्वामित्व  of British  aerospace  after the remains of British Leyland were broken  up   और  privatised .
In 1994 Rover  समूह   पीएलसी   थी  acquired by  bmw  .
In 2000 , Rover Group was broken-up  by   bmw   और  Land  रोवर  was  बेची  to Ford Motor Company  ,  becoming part of its Premier Automotive  समूह  .
In  2006  Ford purchased  the  Rover brand  इससे  BMW for around £6 million  .
इस  reunited  the  Rover and Land Rover  ब्रांड्स  for the  पहला  time since 2000 when the  रोवर  group was broken  up  by  bmw   .
In June 2008 ,  घाट   बेची  both Land Rover and Jaguar Cars to  tata  Motors .
This sale  भी  included the  dormant   रोवर   ब्रांड
the  cover of the  पहला  DVD compilation released by Aniplex of  the  New Captain Shūsuke Amagai arc
the  ninth season of the  ब्लीच   दुश्मनी  series  is  named .
the  series is based  on  Tite  kubo  's manga with  वही   नाम   .
The  एपीसोड   हैं  directed by  noriyuki  Abe and produced by  tv  Tokyo , Dentsu , and  स्टुडियो  Pierrot  .
The episodes ' plot focuses  on   the  introduction of a new  आत्मा  Reaper captain ,  shūsuke  Amagai , and the mystery surrounding  the   kasumiōji  clan ,  एक  of the families  कि  constitute the nobility  of  Soul Society  .
The season  began   airing   on  April 23 , 2008  in  Japan  on  TV Tokyo and ended on  अक्तूबर  7 ,  2008  .
The English adaptation of  the  Bleach  दुश्मनी  is  licensed  by  viz  Media , and  इस   चाप   began  airing on August 28  ,  2010 on Cartoon Network 's  वयस्क  Swim ,  और  finished  on   जनवरी  29 , 2011  .
Five DVD compilations  ,  each containing  चार   एपीसोड  of  the  season  ,  have been  released  by  aniplex  ;  the  first DVD compilation was released  on  November 26 , 2008 and  the  fifth on  कूच   25  , 2009 .
a  DVD box  होगा  be published by  viz  Media on December 13 , 2011 .
the  episodes use three  टुकड़े   of  theme music : one opening theme and two closing themes  .
The opening theme is  ``  Chu-Bura ``  by   kelun  .
The  पहला  closing theme is ``  नारंगी   ''  by  lil'b   ,  used for episodes 168 to 179 ,  और  the  दूसरी   closing  theme is ``  gallop  ''  by  pe'zmoku , used for  the   शेष  of the  एपीसोड  .
The regulation  of  prostitution in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  is not  among  the  enumerated  powers  of  the  संघीय  government ;  अंतर्गत  the  दसवाँ  Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is  इसलिए  exclusively the domain  of  the states to permit , prohibit  ,  or  वरना  regulate commercial sex , except insofar as Congress  may  regulate it as part of  अंतरराज्यीय   कॉमर्स   साथ  laws like the Mann Act  .
In most states  ,  prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in  the  category of public  अनुक्रम  crime  ,   a  crime that disrupts  the  order of a community  .
it  was at one  समय   माना  to be a vagrancy crime .
फिलहाल  , Nevada is the only state  to  allow brothel prostitution ,  the  terms of  जिससे   हैं  stipulated in the Nevada  संशोधित   statutes  .
तभी  8 counties currently contain  क्रियाशील  brothels  .
सब   फ़ॉर्म  of  वेश्यावृति   हैं   illegal  in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area )  ,  Washoe County ( which contains Reno )  ,  Carson City ,  डगलस  County , and Lincoln  काउंटी  .
The other counties theoretically allow brothel  वेश्यावृति  , but some of these counties currently  have  no  क्रियाशील  brothels .
Street prostitution  ,  `` pandering ,  ''  and  जीना  off of  the  proceeds of a prostitute  remain  illegal under Nevada  विधि   ,   as  elsewhere  in  the country .
As  साथ   अन्य  countries  ,   वेश्यावृति  in the United  राज्य  can  be   विभाजित  into three  व्यापक  categories : street prostitution , brothel  वेश्यावृति   ,   और  escort  वेश्यावृति  .
the  East Coast  of  the United  राज्य  , also known as  the   पूर्वी   seaboard  or the  अटलांटिक  Seaboard  और  commonly  shortened  to East Coast ,  refers  to the easternmost coast of the United States along the  अटलांटिक  Ocean  .
the  states  जिससे  have shoreline on  the  East Coast  हैं  , from north to south , the U.S. states  of  Maine , New Hampshire , Massachusetts  ,  Rhode  द्वीप  ,  कनेक्टिकट   ,  New  यॉर्क   ,  New Jersey , Delaware ,  मेरीलैंड  , Virginia ,  उत्तर  Carolina , South Carolina  ,  Georgia , and Florida  .
रिचर्ड  Milhous Nixon ( January 9 ,  1913  –  अप्रैल  22 ,  1994  ) was  the   37th  President of the United States ,  सेवारत  from 1969 to  1974  ,  जब  he became  the  only president to resign the office .
Nixon  था   previously  served  as  a Republican U.S. representative  और   सीनेटर   इससे  California and as the  36th   वाइस  President of the  संयुक्त  States from 1953  to  1961  .
निक्सन  was born  in   yorba   लिंडा  , California .
He graduated from Whittier  कॉलेज  in 1934 and  ड्यूक  University School of  विधि   in  1937 , returning  to  California to practice law  .
He  और   उसके   बीवी   ,  Pat  निक्सन  ,  स्थानांतरित  to Washington  to   कार्य  for the federal government in 1942 .
he  subsequently served  in  the United  राज्य  Navy during World  युद्ध  II .
निक्सन   थी  elected  in  California to  the   हाउस   of   प्रतिनिधि  in 1946 and to  the  Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit  of  the  alger  Hiss  मामला   स्थापित   उसके   प्रतिष्ठा  as a leading  anti-communist  , and elevated him to national prominence .
he  was the running  mate  of  ड्वाइट  D. Eisenhower , the  रिपब्लिकन   पार्टी  presidential  nominee   in  the 1952  चुनाव   .
निक्सन  served for eight years  as   वाइस  president .
He waged an  unsuccessful   अध्यक्षीय  campaign in  1960  , narrowly losing  to  John F. Kennedy  ,  and lost a race for Governor of California in  1962  .
In 1968  ,   he  ran again for the presidency  और  was elected  .
हालांकि  Nixon initially  escalated  America 's involvement  in  the  वियतनाम  War , he subsequently  ended  U.S.  भागीदारी  in  1973   .
Nixon  's   विज़िट  to the People 's  गणतंत्र  of  चीन  in 1972 opened  राजनयिक  relations  between  the two nations , and he initiated détente and the  anti-ballistic  Missile Treaty  साथ  the  सोवियत  Union the same year .
Domestically , his  प्रशासन  generally  embraced  policies that transferred  शक्ति  from  वॉशिंगटन  to  the   राज्य   .
Among other things  ,  he  शुभारम्भ  initiatives  to  fight  कर्कट   और  illegal drugs , imposed wage and price controls , enforced  desegregation  of some Southern  स्कूलों  , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over  the  lunar landings  शुरूआत  with Apollo  11  , he scaled  वापस   मानवयुक्त  space exploration  .
He was re-elected  by  a landslide in  1972  .
Nixon 's second term  देखी  an Arab oil embargo ,  the   इस्तीफा  of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a  continuing  series of revelations about  the  Watergate scandal and other misconduct by  सदस्यों   of   the  administration .
The scandal escalated , costing  निक्सन  much of  उसके  political support  ,  and on  अगस्त   9   ,  1974 ,  he   resigned  in the  फेस  of  लगभग  certain impeachment and  हटाना   इससे  office .
After  उसके   इस्तीफा  , he  controversially  received  a  pardon issued by his successor ,  जेराल्ड   घाट  .
In retirement , Nixon  's  work  as  an elder  statesman   ,   authoring  several books and undertaking  अनेक  foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate  उसके  public image  .
he   suffered  a  debilitating   स्ट्रोक  on April 18 , 1994 , and died four days  बाद  at the  आयु  of 81 .
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft ,  lustral   )  is an antidepressant of  the  selective serotonin reuptake  inhibitor  ( SSRI ) class .
It was introduced to  the   मार्केट  by  फाइजर  in  1991   .
sertraline  is primarily  विहित  for  प्रमुख  depressive disorder in adult outpatients  as  well as obsessive–compulsive , panic  ,  and social anxiety disorders in both adults  और  children .
In  2011  , it was the  second-most  prescribed antidepressant on the U.S. retail market  ,  with 37,208,000 prescriptions .
the  efficacy of sertraline for  अवसाद   is  similar to  कि  of older tricyclic  antidepressants  , but its  पक्ष  effects  हैं  much less pronounced .
Differences with newer antidepressants  हैं  subtler and also mostly confined to  पक्ष   प्रभाव  .
प्रमाण  suggests that  sertraline   may  work better than  fluoxetine  ( Prozac ) for  कुछ  subtypes of  अवसाद   .
उपचार  of panic disorder with sertraline results in  a   significant  decrease of  the  number of  दहशत  attacks  और  in improved quality of life .
For obsessive-compulsive disorder , sertraline  is  not as effective  as   संज्ञानात्मक  behavioral therapy ;  the  best results  have  been achieved  by  combining these two  उपचार  .
हालांकि  approved for social  phobia  and  posttraumatic  stress  विकार  , sertraline  लीड  to only modest  सुधार   in  these  शर्तें  .
Sertraline  भी  alleviates  the   लक्षण  of premenstrual dysphoric  विकार   और   can  be used in sub-therapeutic doses or  intermittently  for its treatment .
Sertraline shares  the  common  पक्ष  effects  और  contraindications of other  ssris  , with  ऊँची   दरों  of nausea ,  अतिसार  ,  अनिद्रा   ,   और  sexual  पक्ष   प्रभाव  ; however  ,  it does not cause weight gain , and its effects on both  संज्ञान  and vigilance are relatively  mild  .
In pregnant women taking sertraline , the drug  थी  present in significant concentrations in fetal blood  ,  and was also associated with a higher  रेट  of  विभिन्न   जनम  defects .
Similarly to other  antidepressants  , the use of  sertraline   लिये   अवसाद  may  be  associated  साथ  a higher  रेट  of  suicidality   .
The Five  heartbeats   is   a  1991  musical  drama film  निर्देशित   by   रॉबर्ट   टाउनसेंड  ,  जो  co-wrote the  स्क्रिप्ट  with Keenan  आइवरी  Wayans  .
वितरित  by 20th  सदी  Fox ,  the  film 's main  डाल   शामिल  Townsend ,  माइकल  Wright , Leon Robinson , Harry  J.  Lennix , Tico Wells ,  हेरोल्ड   निकोलस  of  the  Nicholas  भाइयो  , and Diahann  कैरल  .
the  plot of the  फिल्मी  ( which is loosely based  on  the  जीवनदान  of several artists : The  dells  , The Temptations  ,   चार   टॉप   ,  Wilson Pickett , James Brown , Frankie Lymon , Sam Cooke and others ) follows the three decade  करियर  of the R & B  गायन  group  the   पाँच  Heartbeats .
The film depicts the rise and  पतन  of a Motown  प्रेरित  soul act  through  the eyes of  the  film 's main protagonist  ,  Donald `` Duck '' Matthews (  portrayed  by Townsend  )  , who serves as  a  narrator throughout  the  film .
However , a majority of  the   सिनेमा  is  प्रस्तुत  in a consecutive time  लकीर  as opposed to traditional flash backs .
the  film includes  a  significant amount of original music conceived by  विभिन्न  artists for the  फिल्मी  's soundtrack , including singles  ऐसे  as  ``  A Heart Is a House  लिये  Love `` ,  ``  We  have   n't  Finished  yet  ''  ,  and `` Nothing  लकिन  Love ''  .
The  फिल्मी  was released  to  most  उत्तर  American audiences March 29 ,  1991   however   it  was  नहीं  made available to  ऑडियंस  in other  महाद्वीपों  until 2002 when a DVD was released  prior  to another DVD release in  2006  for  the  film  's  15th anniversary .
The movie received mixed reviews from critics .
सचिवालय  ( March  30   ,   1970   –  October 4  ,  1989 )  थी  an  अमरीकी  Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became  the  first  u.s  .  ट्रिपल  Crown champion in  25   सालो  .
He set  रेस  records in  सब  three events in the Series — the Kentucky  डर्बी  ( 1:59.4  )  , the Preakness Stakes (  1:53  )  ,  and the Belmont  stakes  (  2:24  ) — records that still  स्टैंड   आज  .
He is considered to be one of the  महानतम  Thoroughbreds of  सब  time .
In 1999 , ESPN  क्रमित  Secretariat the 35th best athlete of  the  20th century  ,   the  highest ranking racehorse on the list  url_http  .
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The  blood-horse  's List of  the   शीर्ष  100 U.S. Racehorses of  the  20th Century .
Secretariat was sired  by  Bold  शासक   आउट  of  somethingroyal  , by Princequillo .
He was foaled at The Meadow in Caroline County  ,  Virginia  .
Like  उसके  famous predecessor Man  o  ' War  ,   सचिवालय   थी  a large chestnut colt and was given  the  same nickname , `` Big Red . ''
Secretariat 's grandsire , Nasrullah ,  is  also the  great-great-grandsire  of 1977 Triple Crown  विजेता   सिएटल  Slew .
Owned by Penny Chenery ,  he   थी   प्रशिक्षित  by Lucien Laurin and  मुख्यतः   ridden  by Canadian jockey  रॉन  Turcotte , along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ) , and veteran Eddie Maple  (  last race ) .
he  raced  in  Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and white  checkered  colors  और  his  दूल्हे  was  एडी  Sweat .
सचिवालय  stood approximately  लम्बा   ,  and  weighed  ,  साथ  a  75-inch  girth  ,   in   उसके  racing prime .
A  ठेठ  12 V , 40 Ah Lead-acid car battery
An automotive  बैटरी  is  a  type of  rechargeable   बैटरी  that supplies  इलेक्ट्रिक  energy to  an   ऑटोमोबाइल  .
Usually  इस  refers to an SLI battery (  starting   ,  lighting ,  प्रज्वलन   )  to  शक्ति  the  प्रारंभ   मोटर   ,  the lights ,  और   the  ignition  प्रणाली   of  a  vehicle’s  engine .
Automotive  sli   बैटरी   हैं  usually lead-acid type , and  हैं  made of six galvanic cells in  श्रेणी   to  provide a 12 volt system .
Each cell  provides   2.1  volts for a total of  12.6  volt at  पूरा  charge  .
Heavy vehicles such as  राजमार्ग  trucks or tractors , often equipped  साथ   डीज़ल  engines , may have two batteries in  श्रेणी  for a 24 volt system , or  may  have parallel  स्ट्रिंग्स  of batteries .
Lead-acid batteries are made up of plates of lead and separate plates of lead dioxide , which are submerged into an electrolyte solution  of  about 38 % sulfuric  एसिड   और  62 % water .
इस  causes a chemical reaction that releases electrons  ,   allowing  them to flow through conductors to produce  विद्युत  .
as  the battery  discharges  ,  the   एसिड  of  the   electrolyte   प्रतिक्रियाएँ  with the materials of  the   प्लेटों  ,  बदलना  their surface to lead sulfate .
जब   the  battery is recharged , the  रासायनिक   प्रतिक्रिया  is reversed : the lead sulfate reforms into  सीसे  dioxide and lead .
With the plates  लौटी   to   उनके   असली  condition , the process may now be repeated .
Battery recycling of automotive  बैटरी   reduces  the  need  for  संसाधन   जरूरी  for manufacture  of  new  बैटरी   ,   diverts  toxic  सीसे  from landfills , and prevents  रिस्क  of improper disposal .
Full-time employment  is  employment  in   जिससे   a  person works a minimum number  of   घंटों  defined as  ऐसे   by  his/her  नियोक्ता  .
Full-time employment often comes with benefits that are not typically offered to part-time , temporary , or flexible workers , such as annual leave , sickleave ,  और  health  बीमे   .
Full-time  कार्य  are often considered  करियर  .
वे   generally  pay more  than  part-time jobs , and  प्रायः  carry more  घंटों  per week .
The Fair  मजदूर  Standards  अधिनियम   (  FLSA  )   करता  not define full-time  नियुक्ति  or part-time employment .
This is a matter generally to  be  determined by the  नियोक्ता   (   us   विभाग   of  Labor )  .
The definition by employer  can  vary and  is   generally  published in a company 's Employee Handbook .
Companies  commonly  require from 30–35  or   40   घंटों   प्रति  week to  be  defined as full-time and therefore  योग्य  for  लाभ  .
Full-Time status varies between company and  is   प्रायः  based on the shift the employee must  कार्य  during each work week .
The  ``   मानक  '' work week consists  of  five eight-hour days  ,   commonly  served between  9:00am  to 5:00PM  totaling   40  hours .
While a four-day week generally  consists  of four  ten-hour  days ; it may also consist of as little as nine hours for a total of  a   36  hour work week .
Twelve-hour  शिफ्ट  are often three days per week  ,  unless  the  company has the intention of paying out the employee  ओवरटाइम   .
ओवरटाइम  is legally paid out  anytime   an  employee works more than 40  घंटों  per  सप्ताह  .
the   विधिक  minimum for overtime starts  at   आधार   अदा   +  One-Half .
The  increased   भुगतान  is considered  to   compensate  slightly for the increased  थकान  which a  व्यक्ति  experiences on such long  शिफ्ट  .
Shifts can also be very irregular ,  as  in retail , but are still full-time if the  जरूरी   क्रमांक   of  hours is reached .
There are  कुछ   परिस्थितियों  where a person  जो  needs full-time work is  dropped  to part-time ,  जिससे   is  sometimes a  रूप   of  constructive dismissal  to   avoid   paying  unemployment benefits  to   a  laid-off worker .
Seahorse  is  the title given to 54 species of marine fish in the  genus  Hippocampus  .
`` Hippocampus '' comes  इससे  the  प्राचीन  Greek hippos meaning `` horse  ''  and  kampos   अर्थ  `` sea monster '' .
The  नियंत्रित   substances   अधिनियम  ( CSA )  थी   enacted   into   विधि  by the  कॉंग्रेस  of the United States as  शीर्षक  II of  the  Comprehensive Drug  गाली  Prevention and  कंट्रोल   अधिनियम  of 1970 .
The CSA  is   the  federal U.S.  ड्रग   नीति  under which  the  manufacture , importation , possession , use and distribution of certain substances is regulated .
The  अधिनियम  also served  as  the national implementing legislation  लिये   the  Single Convention  on   narcotic   दवाएँ   .
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications  )   ,  with  varying   योग्यता   लिये  a substance to  be   शामिल  in each  .
Two  संघीय  agencies , the  ड्रग   प्रवर्तन  Administration  और   the  Food and Drug Administration , determine  जिससे  substances are  added   to   or  removed from the various schedules , though  the  statute passed by Congress  निर्मित  the initial listing ,  और   कॉंग्रेस   रै  sometimes scheduled other substances  through  legislation such  as  the Hillory  J.  Farias and  सामन्था   reid  Date-Rape Prevention  अधिनियम  of  2000   ,   जिससे  placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification  निर्णय  are required to be made on criteria  सहित  potential for abuse ( an  अपरिभाषित  term ) , currently accepted  चिकित्सा   उपयोग   in  treatment  in  the United States  ,  and international treaties  .
Maya numerals
Maya numerals are a vigesimal (  आधार   -  twenty ) numeral  प्रणाली  used by the Pre-Columbian Maya civilization .
The numerals are made  up  of  तीन  symbols  ;  zero (  शेल  shape )  ,  one (  a  dot ) and  पाँच  (  a  bar  )  .
For example , thirteen  is   लिखा  as three  dots  in a horizontal row above two  आड़ा  lines stacked above  प्रत्येक  other .
Lyndon Baines Johnson  (   अगस्त  27 , 1908 – January  22   ,  1973  )   ,  often referred  to  as LBJ , was the 36th President of the United  राज्य   (  1963–1969 ) , a  स्थिति  he  assumed  after his service as  the  37th Vice  अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त  States  (  1961–1963  )  .
he  is one  of  only  चार  people who  परोसा  in all four  निर्वाचित  federal  कार्यालयों   of  the  संयुक्त  States : Representative  ,  Senator , Vice President ,  और   अध्यक्ष   .
जॉनसन  , a  डेमोक्रेट   इससे   टेक्सास  , served  as  a  संयुक्त  States Representative from 1937–1949  और   as   a  Senator from 1949–1961 , including  छह  years as  संयुक्त   राज्य   सीनेट  Majority Leader ,  दो  as Senate Minority Leader  और   दो  as Senate  बहुमत  Whip .
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination in 1960 , Johnson was  पूछा  by John  F.   कैनेडी   to   be  his running mate for  the  1960  अध्यक्षीय  election .
Johnson succeeded to the  प्रेसिडेंसी  following the assassination of  जॉन  F.  कैनेडी  on November 22 , 1963 , completed Kennedy 's term  और  was  निर्वाचित  President  in  his own right  ,  winning  by  a large margin  over  Barry Goldwater in  the  1964 election .
जॉनसन  was  greatly   समर्थित   by  the Democratic Party and as President , he was responsible  लिये   डिजाइनिंग   the  `` Great Society ``  विधान  that included laws  कि  upheld  सिविल  rights  ,  public broadcasting , Medicare  ,  Medicaid , environmental protection  ,  aid to education ,  और  his  ``  War on Poverty . ''
जॉनसन   थी  renowned for his domineering  व्यक्तित्व  and the `` Johnson treatment  ,  '' his coercion of powerful politicians in order to  अग्रिम   विधान  .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated American involvement  in  the  वियतनाम  War , from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers  in  1963 to 550,000 combat troops  in  early  1968   ,  as  अमरीकी  casualties soared  और   the  peace process bogged down .
The  भागीदारी   stimulated   a  large angry  antiwar   गति   आधारित  especially on university  campuses  in the U.S.  और  abroad .
गर्मियाँ  riots broke out in most major  शहरों  after 1965 , and crime rates  soared   ,   as  his opponents  उठाया  demands for  ``  law and order '' policies  .
The Democratic Party  विभाजित  in multiple  feuding   गिरोहों   ,  and after Johnson  किया  poorly in the  1968  New  हैम्पशायर  primary , he ended his  बोली   लिये   reelection   .
रिपब्लिकन  Richard Nixon was elected to succeed him .
इतिहासकारों  argue  कि  Johnson 's presidency  चिह्नित   the  peak  of   आधुनिक   उदारतावाद  in  the  United States after  the  New Deal era .
जॉनसन  is  क्रमित  favorably by some  इतिहासकारों   क्युकी  of his domestic policies .
प्रोजेस्टेरोन  also known as P4  (  pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a  c-21  steroid hormone involved in the female menstrual cycle  ,  pregnancy (  supports   gestation   )  and embryogenesis  of  humans  और  other  प्रजाति   .
प्रोजेस्टेरोन  belongs to a class of hormones  पुकारा  progestogens  ,   और  is the major naturally occurring human progestogen  .
बिग  Bird is  a  protagonist of the children  's  television  दिखाएँ  Sesame  गली   .
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney  चूंकि   1969  , he is  an  eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm  )   लम्बा  bright primrose-yellow bird  .
He can roller skate ,  बर्फ  skate  ,   नृत्य  , sing , write  काव्य  , draw and  भी  ride a unicycle  .
But  despite   इस  wide array of talents , he is  prone  to  बारंबार  misunderstandings , on one occasion  भी  singing  the  alphabet as  एक  big  long   शब्द   (   इससे  the  सोंग  called `` ABC-DEF-GHI , ''  सुनाया  `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' )  ,  pondering  कया  it could  कभी  mean .
he   जीवनदान   in  a  विशाल  nest behind the  123   तिल  Street brownstone and has a  टेडी   भालू   नामित  Radar .
webtrends  is a  निजी   कम्पनी  headquartered  in  Portland , Oregon , United States .
It  provides  web  ,   सोशल   ,  and mobile analytics  और   अन्य  software  समाधान   सम्बन्धित  to marketing  प्रज्ञा  .
the  company was founded in 1993 and  अभी   serves  more than 10,000 large and  छोटी   कड़s.  < ref name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 '  >
The Second Crusade  (   1145–1149  )  थी   the  second  प्रमुख  crusade launched from  यूरोपीय  .
The Second Crusade was started  in   जवाब  to  the   पतन  of the County  of   edessa  the  पिछला  year to the forces of Zengi .
the  county  था   महरूम   संस्थापित  during  the  First Crusade  (  1096–1099 ) by Baldwin of Boulogne  in  1098 .
While  it  was the first  जेहादी   राज्य  to be founded , it was  भी  the first to fall .
The Second Crusade  थी  announced  by  Pope  यूजीन  III  ,   और  was the  पहला  of the crusades to be led  by  European  किंग्स  , namely  लुई  VII of France and Conrad III  of   जर्मनी   ,   साथ   सहायता  from a number of  अन्य  European nobles .
the  armies of the two kings marched separately  आरपार  Europe  .
After crossing  बीज़ान्टिन  territory into  आनातोलिया  ,  दोनो   सेना  were separately defeated by the Seljuq  turks   .
the  main  पश्चिमी  Christian source  ,  Odo of  deuil  ,  और  Syriac  ईसाई  sources  अर्जी  that the Byzantine emperor Manuel  i   comnenus   secretly  hindered  the  crusaders  '   प्रगति  , particularly  in   आनातोलिया  where he  is   कथित   to   have  deliberately ordered Turks to  आक्रमण  them .
Louis and  कोनराड  and the remnants of their  सेना  reached Jerusalem and ,  in   1148  , participated in an ill-advised attack on Damascus  .
the   crusade  in  the   ईस्ट  was a failure  लिये  the crusaders  और   a  great  विजय  for the Muslims .
It would ultimately have a  कुंजी   influence  on the  पतन  of Jerusalem  और  give rise  to   the   तीसरा   crusade  at the end  of   the   12th  century  .
the  only success of the  दूसरी  Crusade came to a combined force  of  13,000 Flemish ,  frisian   ,  Norman  ,  English  ,  Scottish , and German crusaders  in  1147 .
Travelling from England , by ship , to  the  Holy Land , the  फौज  stopped  और  helped the smaller ( 7,000  )  Portuguese  फौज   in   the   कैप्चर   of  Lisbon , expelling its  मूरिश  occupants  .
wal-mart  Stores , Inc. (  )   ,  branded as Walmart  ,  is an  अमरीकी   बहुराष्ट्रीय   खुदरा  corporation  कि  runs chains of  विशाल  discount department  स्टोर्स  and warehouse stores .
The company is the  संसार  's third largest  पब्लिक  corporation  ,  according to the Fortune Global 500  सूची   in  2012 , the biggest private  नियोक्ता   in   the  world  साथ  over two million employees  ,  and  is  the largest retailer in the world  .
Walmart  remains  a  family-owned  business , as  the  company is controlled by the Walton family  ,   जो  own a 48 percent stake in Walmart .
It is also one of  the  world  's   सबसे  valuable companies .
The company was founded by Sam Walton  in  1962 , incorporated  on  October 31  ,   1969  , and publicly traded on the New  यॉर्क  Stock Exchange in  1972   .
It is headquartered  in  Bentonville ,  अरकंसास  .
Walmart  is  also  the   largest   किराना   रिटेलर  in the  संयुक्त  States .
In 2009 , it  उत्पन्न  51  प्रतिशत  of its  us   $  258  अरब   बिक्री   in  the  u.S.  from grocery business .
It also owns  और  operates the Sam  's  Club  खुदरा  warehouses in  उत्तर  America .
By  1988   ,  Wal-Mart was the  सबसे  profitable  रिटेलर  in the  us  , and by November 1990 , it outsold K-mart .
by  1991  it   outsold  Sears in retail ,  बनाना  it America 's largest  रिटेलर  , a distinction  it  still  holds  .
Walmart  रै   8,500  stores  in   15  countries , under 55 different names .
the   कम्पनी   operates  under  the  Walmart  नाम  in  the  United States  ,  including the  50  states and Puerto Rico .
It operates in Mexico as Walmex , in the United Kingdom as  asda  , in Japan as  seiyu  , and  in   इण्डिया  as Best  दाम  .
it  has wholly owned operations  in  Argentina , Brazil , and Canada .
Walmart 's  निवेश  outside North  अमेरिका  have  था  mixed results : its operations in  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom  ,  South America , and China are  अत्यधिक  successful , whereas  ventures   in  Germany and  दक्षिण   कोरियाई   यहूद  unsuccessful .
रॉबर्ट  William Gary  मूर  ( 4  अप्रैल   1952  –  6   फ़रवरी   2011  )  ,  was a  उत्तरी  Irish  संगीतकार   ,   सबसे  widely  recognised  as a singer and guitarist  .
In a career dating back  to  the  1960s  , Moore  निभाई  with artists including  फिल  Lynott and Brian Downey during  उसके  teens  ,  leading him  to   सदस्यताएँ  with the Irish bands Skid  पंक्ति  and Thin Lizzy on three  पृथक  occasions .
मूर  shared  the   स्टेज   साथ  such blues  और   चट्टान   luminaries  as B.B  .  King ,  अल्बर्ट  King  ,   कोलोसियम   ii  , George Harrison and Greg Lake ,  as   खूब  as having  a  successful solo career  .
He guested  on  a number  of   एल्बम  recorded  by  high profile musicians , including  a  cameo appearance playing the lead guitar solo on  ``  She 's  my  Baby `` from Traveling Wilburys Vol . 3 .
An example of rack mounted servers
A web  होस्टिंग  service is  a  type of Internet hosting  सेवा  that allows  individuals  and  संगठन   to  make  उनके  website  accessible   via  the World Wide  वेब  .
Web hosts  हैं  companies that  provide  space on a server owned  or   leased  for  उपयोग  by  क्लाइंट  , as  खूब  as providing Internet connectivity , typically  in   a  data center .
वेब  hosts can also provide  आंकड़ा   बीच  space and  कनेक्टिविटी   to  the Internet for other servers  स्तिथ   in  their data center , called colocation ,  भी   ज्ञात  as Housing in Latin  अमेरिका  or  फ़्रांस   .
The scope of web hosting  सेवाएं  varies greatly .
The  सबसे  basic  is  web page and small-scale  संचिका   होस्टिंग  , where  फाइलें  can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP  )  or a Web interface .
The files are  प्रायः  delivered  to  the Web `` as is '' or with  minimal   प्रसंस्करण   .
Many Internet service providers ( ISPs ) offer  इस  service free to  सदस्य  .
Individuals and organizations may also  obtain  Web  पेज   होस्टिंग  from alternative  सेवा   प्रदाताओं  .
निजी  web site hosting  is  typically free , advertisement-sponsored , or inexpensive .
Business web  साईट  hosting often has  a   उच्चतर  expense depending upon the size  और  type  of  the website .
Single page hosting is generally  sufficient  for personal web pages .
A complex site calls for  a   अधिक  comprehensive package that  provides  database  support   और  application development platforms ( e.g  .  PHP ,  जावा   ,   माणिक्य   on   rails  , ColdFusion  ,  or  asp.net  ) .
ये  facilities allow customers to write or install scripts for applications like forums  और   सामग्री   प्रबन्धन   .
Also  ,  Secure Sockets  परत   (  SSL  )  is typically used  लिये  e-commerce  .
The host may also provide  an   इंटरफ़ेस   or  control panel for  मैनेजिंग   the  Web  सर्वर  and installing scripts , as  खूब  as  अन्य   मौड्यूल  and service  अनुप्रयोग   जैसे  e-mail .
Some hosts specialize  in  certain software or services (  e.g  . e-commerce ) , which are commonly used by  larger  companies that  outsource  network infrastructure .
obstetrics   (   इससे  the  लैटिन   obstare  ,  ``   to   स्टैंड   by   ''  ) is the medical specialty  dealing  with the care  of  all  महिलाओं  's  reproductive   tracts  and their children during  गर्भावस्था  ( prenatal period ) , childbirth and the  postnatal  period .
Many obstetricians are  भी  gynecologists , meaning they perform in  दोनो  specialties .
in   the   संयुक्त  States , these physicians are commonly referred  to  as OB/GYNs .
The  राइट  brothers  ,   orville  ( August 19 , 1871 – January 30 ,  1948   )  and Wilbur  (  April 16  ,   1867   –   may   30  ,  1912  ) , were two  अमरीकी  brothers , inventors , and  विमानन   pioneers   जो  were credited  साथ  inventing and building the world 's  पहला  successful airplane and  बनाना   the  first  नियंत्रित   ,  powered and sustained heavier-than-air human flight ,  on  December  17   ,  1903  .
From 1905  to  1907 , the  भाइयो   विकसित  their  उड़ती   यंत्र   into   the   पहला   व्यावहारिक  fixed-wing aircraft .
Although not the  पहला  to build  और   मक्खी  experimental  वायुयान  , the  राइट  brothers were the first to invent  वायुयान   नियंत्रण   कि  made fixed-wing  संचालित  flight possible .
The  भाइयो  '  आधारभूत  breakthrough was their invention  of  three-axis control , which  सक्रिय  the pilot to  steer   the  aircraft effectively and to  maintain  its equilibrium .
इस   विधि   became   मानक  and  remains   मानक  on fixed-wing aircraft of all kinds .
इससे  the beginning of their aeronautical work , the  राइट  brothers focused on developing a reliable method of pilot control as  the   कुंजी  to solving  ``  the flying problem  ''  .
This approach differed significantly from other  experimenters   of  the time who put more emphasis on  विकासशील   शक्तिशाली   इंजन  .
Using a small  homebuilt  wind tunnel  ,   the  Wrights  भी  collected more  सटीक  data than  कोई  before ,  enabling  them to  डिज़ाइन  and  निर्माण  wings and  propellers  that were more efficient  than   कोई  before .
Their first U.S. patent , 821,393 , did not  अर्जी  invention of  a  flying  यंत्र  , but  बल्कि  ,  the  invention  of  a system of  aerodynamic  control that  manipulated   a  flying machine 's surfaces .
वे  gained the mechanical skills  अनिवार्य  for their success  by   working  for years in their shop  साथ   मुद्रण  presses , bicycles , motors , and other machinery .
Their work with bicycles  in  particular influenced their belief that an unstable  गाडी   जैसे  a flying  यंत्र   could  be controlled and balanced  साथ  practice .
From  1900   जबतक  their  पहला   संचालित  flights in late 1903  ,  they  conducted  extensive  glider   परीक्षण   कि   भी   विकसित   उनके  skills  as  pilots .
Their bicycle shop employee Charlie Taylor became  an  important part  of   the  team , building their first aircraft engine in close collaboration with  the  brothers  .
The Wright  भाइयो  ' status as inventors of the  वायुयान   रै  been  विषय  to counter-claims by various  पार्टियों  .
Much  विवाद  persists  over  the  अनेक   स्पर्धा   दावा  of early aviators .
America 's Next Top Model ,  साईकिल  12 is  the  twelfth cycle of  अमेरिका   's  Next Top Model and the sixth  ऋतु  to  एयर   on   the  CW  संजाल  .
it  premiered on March  4   ,  2009 .
The cycle  's  catch phrase  is  ``  मिलेंगी   in  The Fold  .  ''
The cycle  's   promotional  song  is  Lady Gaga 's `` The Fame ''  .
the  prizes for this cycle are:
A modeling contract with  elite   मॉडल  Management .
A fashion  स्प्रेड  and cover in Seventeen .
A 100,000 contract with CoverGirl cosmetics  .
The first  हाफ   of   the  cycle  took  place  in  New York City  ,  moving  the  show back  इससे   लॉस   एंजिल्स  last  ऋतु   .
The international destination  लिये  this cycle is São Paulo  ,  Brazil ,  the  series  पहला  visit  to  South America  .
The number  of   लड़कियों   थी  reduced  to  13  ,  the first time since Cycle  9  ,  बाद  being maintained at 14 in the last two  चक्र  .
This was the  पिछला  time Paulina Porizkova  participated  as judge .
The winner  थी  20-year-old Teyona Anderson from Woodstown ,  नई  Jersey .
इस  season averaged 4.35 million viewers  प्रति  episode .
Exxon  mobil   निगम  ,  or  ExxonMobil  ,  is  an   अमरीकी  multinational  आयल  and gas corporation  headquartered  in Irving , Texas  ,  United States .
It is a direct descendant of John D.  rockefeller   's  Standard Oil company , and was  formed  on November 30 ,  1999   ,   by  the  विलय   of  Exxon and Mobil .
It is affiliated with Imperial Oil  जिससे   operates  in Canada .
ExxonMobil  is   the  world 's largest company by revenue and  in   2013  , became the largest publicly traded company  by   मार्केट  capitalization in the  संसार  .
the  company is ranked  #  5 globally in Forbes Global  2000  list in  2013   .
exxon  Mobil 's reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels  at  the end of  2007   और  , at then ( 2007 ) rates of production , are expected to  पिछला  over 14  सालो  .
With 37  आयल  refineries  in   21   देशों   constituting  a combined daily  शोधन  capacity of , Exxon  mobil   is  the  largest   refiner  in the world , a title that was also associated  साथ  Standard Oil since its incorporation in  1870  .
exxonmobil  is the largest  of  the world  's  supermajors with daily production of  3.921   लाख   boe  ( barrels  of  oil equivalent ) .
In 2008  ,  this was  लगभग  3 % of  संसार  production , which  is  less than several of the largest  state-owned   पेट्रोलियम   कंपनियाँ  .
When ranked  by  oil and  गैस   reserves  it  is   14th  in the world with less than 1 % of  the   कुल   .
A  2012   आलेख   in  The Daily Telegraph  says  that  exxonmobil  has  ``  grown  into  one  of   the  planet’s most  hated  corporations  ,  able to determine  अमरीकी   विदेशी   नीति  and the fate  of  entire nations  ''  .
in  terms  of  its  पर्यावरणीय  record , ExxonMobil  increasingly  drills in  terrains  leased to them by dictatorships , such  as  those  in   chad  and  भूमध्यरेखीय   गिनी   .
Lee Raymond , the corporation’s chief  कार्यपालिका  until 2005  ,   थी   ``   notoriously  sceptical about climate change and  disliked  government interference  at  any level ''  .
The company was  widely   criticized  for its slow response to cleaning  इसके  1989 Valdez oil spill in  अलास्का  .
This  आलेख  is  परिचय  the Globe Theatre  of   शेक्सपियर  .
For the  आधुनिक  reconstruction in  लंदन  , see  शेक्सपियर  's  ग्लोब  .
For other uses , see  ग्लोब  Theatre ( disambiguation )  .
the  Globe  थिएटर   थी  a theatre in London  संबद्ध  with William Shakespeare  .
It was  निर्मित  in 1599  by  Shakespeare 's  playing  company , the  रब  Chamberlain  's  Men  ,  on land  स्वामित्व  by Thomas  brend  and inherited by his son , Nicholas  brend   और  grandson Sir  मैथ्यू  Brend , and was destroyed by fire on 29 June  1613  .
A  दूसरी  Globe Theatre  थी  built on the  वही  site  by  June 1614 and closed  in   1642   .
A modern reconstruction of the Globe  ,  named ``  शेक्सपियर  's Globe ``  ,  opened  in   1997  approximately  इससे   the   साईट  of the  असली  theatre  .
it  's a Wonderful Life is  a  1946  अमरीकी   क्रिसमस   नाटक   फिल्मी  produced and directed  by  Frank Capra  ,  based on the short story `` The Greatest Gift `` , which  फिलिप   वैन   doren  Stern wrote in 1939 and privately published in  1945  .
The film is considered  एक   of  the most loved films in American  सिनेमा   और  has become traditional viewing during  the  Christmas  ऋतु  ,  alongside  popular classics such  as  Charles  डिकेंस  ' A  क्रिसमस  Carol .
the   फिल्मी  stars James Stewart as  जार्ज  Bailey , a  man   जो  has given up his dreams in order to help others  और  whose imminent suicide on  क्रिसमस   संध्या   brings  about the intervention of his guardian angel  ,  Clarence Odbody ( Henry Travers  )  .
Clarence  shows  George all the lives he has touched and  कैसा  different  जीवन   in  his community of Bedford  जलप्रपात   होता   be  had he  never  been born .
Despite  initially  performing  poorly  at  the  box office  due  to high production costs and  stiff  competition at the time of its release  ,  the  फिल्मी  has come to be  regarded  as a classic  और  is a  स्टेपल   of   क्रिसमस  television around the world  .
Theatrically , the film 's break-even point was  दरअसल  $  6.3  million  ,  approximately  twice  the production cost ,  a   फिगर  it never  आए  close to  achieving   in  its initial release .
An appraisal  in  2006  reported  : ``  हालांकि   it  was not  the  complete  बक्सा  office  विफलता   कि  today  everyone  believes ... it was initially a major  निराशा  and confirmed  ,   at   तनिक  to the  studios   ,  that Capra was  no  longer capable of turning  आउट  the populist  सुविधाएँ   कि  made his  films   the   must-see  ,  money-making   कार्यक्रम  they once were  .  ''
The  फिल्मी  was  मनोनीत   लिये  five Oscars  और   रै  been  पहचाना  by the American Film  संस्थान  as  एक   of   the   100  best American films ever made , placing  क्रमांक  11  on   इसके  initial  1998   महानतम  movie list  ,  and would also place number  एक   on  its list of the most inspirational American films of all time .
Data  गोदाम  Overview
In computing  ,  a  आंकड़ा   गोदाम  or enterprise  आंकड़ा  warehouse (  dw   ,   dwh  , or EDW ) is a database used for  रिपोर्टिंग  and  आंकड़ा   विश्लेषण  .
It  is  a  सेंट्रल  repository of data which is  निर्मित  by integrating data from one  or   अधिक  disparate sources .
Data  warehouses  store current as  खूब   as  historical data and are used for  बनाना  trending reports for senior  प्रबन्धन   रिपोर्टिंग   ऐसे   as  annual  और  quarterly comparisons .
The data stored in  the  warehouse are  अपलोड  from the operational systems ( such  as  marketing , sales etc. , shown  in  the figure to  the  right  )  .
The data may pass  through   an   operational  data store  लिये  additional operations before  वे   हैं  used in  the  DW  लिये  reporting  .
The  ठेठ   etl  -based data warehouse uses staging  ,  data integration  ,  and access  परतों   to  house its key functions  .
the  staging layer  or  staging  डेटाबेस   स्टोर्स  raw data  निकाली  from each of  the   disparate  source data systems .
the   संयोजन  layer integrates the disparate data  सेट   by  transforming the data  इससे  the staging layer often storing this  रूपांतरित   आंकड़ा   in   an  operational data store (  ods  )  डेटाबेस  .
The integrated data are then moved to yet  another  database ,  प्रायः  called  the   आंकड़ा  warehouse  डेटाबेस  , where the  आंकड़ा  is arranged into  hierarchical   समूह   प्रायः  called  आयाम  and into facts and aggregate  तथ्य   .
the  combination of facts and dimensions is  sometimes   पुकारा  a star  स्कीमा   .
The access layer helps users retrieve data .
a  data warehouse constructed from an  एकीकृत  data  सोर्स  systems  करता  not  आवश्यकता  ETL , staging databases ,  or   operational  data store  databases  .
The  एकीकृत  data source systems may be  माना  to  be  a part of a distributed operational data store  परत  .
आंकड़ा  federation methods or  आंकड़ा  virtualization  विधि  may  be   प्रयुक्त   to   अभिगम  the distributed  एकीकृत  source data systems to  consolidate  and aggregate data directly into the data warehouse database tables .
Unlike the ETL-based  आंकड़ा   गोदाम  , the integrated  सोर्स  data systems and the data warehouse are all integrated since there  is  no  परिवर्तन  of  आयामी  or reference data .
This integrated data warehouse architecture supports the drill down from the aggregate data of the data warehouse to  the   transactional  data of  the  integrated source data  प्रणालियों  .
Data warehouses can be subdivided into data marts .
आंकड़ा  marts store subsets  of  data from a  गोदाम  .
This definition  of   the  data  गोदाम  focuses  on  data storage .
The main source of the data is cleaned , transformed , cataloged and made available for  उपयोग  by  प्रबंधक   और  other business  पेशेवर  for data mining  ,   ऑनलाइन  analytical processing , market research and decision support ( Marakas  &   o'brien  2009 )  .
However ,  the  means to retrieve and analyze data , to  निकालें  ,  रूपांतरण  and load data  ,  and to manage the data dictionary are also  माना  essential components of a  आंकड़ा   warehousing  system  .
Many  सन्दर्भ  to data warehousing  उपयोग  this  broader   कॉन्टेक्स्ट   .
यूँ   ,  an expanded  परिभाषा  for data warehousing includes business intelligence tools ,  टूल्स  to extract  ,  transform and load  आंकड़ा  into  the  repository  ,  and  टूल्स  to  मैनेज  and retrieve metadata .
Portland stone quarry on the  आइल  of Portland , England
An abandoned construction  कुल  quarry near  एडिलेड   ,  South Australia
a  quarry is a type  of  open-pit mine from which  चट्टान   or   खनिज   हैं   निकाली   .
Quarries  हैं  generally used for extracting building materials , such as dimension stone ,  निर्माण   कुल  ,  riprap  , sand  ,   और  gravel  .
They are  प्रायः   collocated   साथ  concrete and asphalt  पौधे  due to the requirement for large amounts of aggregate  in  those materials  .
Open  खानों  that produce minerals  हैं  typically referred to as open pit mines .
the  word  पाषाण   can  include  भूमिगत  quarrying  लिये  stone , such as  नहाना  stone .
Mormons ( ) are  a  religious  और   सांस्कृतिक  group related to Mormonism  ,  the principal branch of the Latter Day  संत  movement of  restorationist   christianity   ,  which began with the  visions  of Joseph  स्मिथ  in  upstate  New  यॉर्क  during the  1820s  .
After Smith 's death in 1844 the Mormons followed Brigham Young to what would become the Utah Territory  .
आज  Mormons  हैं  understood  to  be members  of   the   गिरिजाघर  of  यीशु  Christ of Latter-day Saints (  lds  Church )  .
Some  mormons  are  भी  either  स्वतंत्र  or  non-practicing  .
The center  of  Mormon  सांस्कृतिक  influence is  in   यूटा  , and North America has  अधिक  Mormons  than   कोई   अन्य   महाद्वीप  , though the majority  of  Mormons  सजीव  outside the United States .
Mormons have  विकसित   a  strong sense of communality that stems from their doctrine  और   इतिहास  .
दौरान   the  19th  सदी  Mormon converts tended to gather to a  सेंट्रल   भौगोलिक   स्थान   ,   और  between 1852 and  1890  a minority of  mormons  openly practiced  बहुवचन   विवाह  , a form of  धार्मिक   polygamy   .
Mormons dedicate large amounts of time and resources  to   सेवारत  in  उनके   गिरिजाघर   ,  and many young Mormons choose to serve a  full-time  proselytizing mission  .
mormons   have  a health code  कि   eschews  alcoholic  पेय   ,  tobacco  ,  coffee ,  चाय  , and other addictive  substances  .
They tend to  be  very  family-oriented  ,  और   have   दमदार  connections  आरपार  generations  और   साथ   विस्तारित  family  ,  reflective of their  विश्वास  that families  can  be sealed  साथ  beyond  मौत  and  throughout   शाश्वत  .
mormons  also have a strict law  of  chastity , requiring abstention from sexual relations  बाहर   of  marriage and  सख्त  fidelity within marriage .
mormons  self-identify  as  Christian , though some of  उनके  beliefs  differ  from mainstream  christianity  .
Mormons believe  in   the  Bible  ,   as   खूब  as  अन्य   किताबे  of scripture ,  ऐसे   as  the Book  of  Mormon  .
वे  have a unique view of cosmology , and believe  कि  all  लोगों  are spirit-children  of  God .
mormons   मानना   कि  returning to God requires following the example of Jesus Christ  ,  and accepting his atonement  through  ordinances  ऐसे   as  baptism .
They  मानना   कि  Christ 's church was restored through Joseph  स्मिथ  , and is  हिदायत  by living prophets and apostles  .
Central to Mormon  आस्था   is  the belief that God speaks  to  his  children  and  जवाब  their  प्रार्थनाएं  .
In financial accounting , assets are  आर्थिक  resources .
Anything tangible or intangible  कि   is  capable  of  being owned or controlled to produce value and that is held to have positive  आर्थिक  value  is  considered  an  asset .
Simply  stated   ,   एसेट  represent value  of   स्वामित्व   कि  can  be  converted  into  cash (  हालांकि  cash  itself  is also  माना  an asset ) .
The  संतुलन  sheet  of   a  firm records the monetaryJ .
G.  Siegel ,  N.  Dauber & J. K. Shim  ,  `` The Vest  जेब   cpa   ''  ,  wiley  , 2005.There are different methods  of  assessing the monetary value  of  the assets recorded on the  संतुलन  Sheet .
In  कुछ  cases , the  ऐतिहासिक  Cost is  प्रयुक्त  ; such  कि   the   मान  of  the  asset  जब   it   थी  bought in the past  is  used as the monetary value  .
In other  उदाहरण  , the present  मेला  market  मान  of the asset is  प्रयुक्त  to determine the value shown on the balance sheet  .
मान  of the assets  स्वामित्व  by the firm .
It is money and  अन्य  valuables belonging  to   an  individual or business  .
दो   प्रमुख  asset classes are tangible assets  और   intangible  assets .
Tangible assets contain various  subclasses   ,  including current  एसेट  and  फिक्स्ड   assets.j  .
Downes ,  j.e   .  Goodman , `` Dictionary of  वित्त   &  Investment Terms  ''  , Baron 's  वित्तीय   मार्गदर्शिका  ,  2003  Current assets include inventory , while fixed assets include such  वस्तुएं  as buildings  और   उपकरण  .J . Downes , J.E .  गुडमैन   ,  `` Dictionary of  वित्त  &  निवेश  Terms ''  ,  Baron 's Financial Guides , 2003 ;  और  J. G. Siegel  ,   N.   dauber  & J.  K.  Shim  ,  `` The  बनियान   जेब  CPA ''  ,  Wiley , 2005  .
Intangible assets are  nonphysical  resources  और   अधिकारों   कि  have a value to  the   कड़   क्युकी  they  दे  the firm some kind of advantage in  the  market  प्लेस  .
उदाहरण  of intangible  एसेट  are goodwill , copyrights  ,  trademarks  ,  patents and computer programs  ,  and financial assets ,  सहित  such items as  खाते   receivable  ,  bonds   और   स्टॉक्स   .
A neuron  (  or ; also known as  a   neurone  or nerve cell  )   is   an  electrically  excitable  cell that processes and transmits information through  विद्युत  and chemical signals .
A chemical signal occurs  via   a  synapse , a specialized connection  साथ  other  कोशिकाएं  .
न्यूरॉन्स   कनेक्ट  to each other  to  form  neural  networks  .
Neurons are the core  components   of  the nervous  प्रणाली  , which includes the brain  ,  spinal cord  ,  and peripheral ganglia .
A number of specialized types of neurons exist :  संवेदी   न्यूरॉन्स   respond   to  touch  ,   ध्वनि  , light  और   numerous  other  stimuli  affecting  कोशिकाएं  of the sensory  अंगों  that  तब  send signals to the spinal cord and brain  .
Motor neurons receive signals from the brain and  स्पाइनल   cord  , cause muscle contractions , and affect glands .
interneurons  connect neurons to  अन्य  neurons within  the  same region of  the  brain or spinal cord  .
A typical  न्यूरॉन  possesses a cell body  (   प्रायः  called the  सोम   )  ,  dendrites  ,  और   an  axon .
dendrites  are  पतला   structures   कि  arise  इससे  the  कोशिका  body ,  प्रायः  extending for hundreds of micrometres  और   branching   अनेक   टाइम्स  ,  giving  rise to a  जटिल  `` dendritic tree '' .
an  axon  is  a special cellular extension that arises from the cell body at a site  पुकारा  the axon hillock and  ट्रेवल्स  for a distance , as far  as  1  मीटर   in  humans or  भी  more  in  other  प्रजाति  .
The  कोशिका  body of  a  neuron frequently gives rise to multiple  dendrites   ,  but never to  अधिक   than  one axon , although the axon may  शाखा  hundreds  of  times before it  terminates   .
at  the majority of synapses ,  सिग्नल   हैं   भेजा   इससे  the axon of one  न्यूरॉन   to   a  dendrite of another .
There are ,  however  , many  अपवाद  to these rules  :  neurons that  कमी  dendrites ,  न्यूरॉन्स  that have  no  axon , synapses  कि   कनेक्ट   an  axon to another  axon   or  a dendrite to another dendrite , etc .
All  न्यूरॉन्स  are electrically  excitable   ,   maintaining  voltage gradients across their membranes  by  means of metabolically driven ion pumps ,  जिससे   combine   साथ  ion channels  अंतःस्थापित  in the membrane  to   generate   intracellular-versus-extracellular   विशेषज्ञता  differences of ions such as  सोडियम  , potassium , chloride , and calcium .
परिवर्तन  in the  cross-membrane  voltage can alter the function of  voltage-dependent  ion  चैनल्स  .
If the voltage  परिवर्तन  by a  विशाल  enough amount  ,   an  all-or-none electrochemical  पल्स  called an  कार्रवाई   संभावित  is generated  ,  which travels rapidly along the  कोशिका  's axon ,  और  activates synaptic  कनेक्शन्स  with other  कोशिकाएं   जब  it  आगमन  .
Neurons do  नहीं  undergo  कोशिका   प्रभाग  .
In most cases , neurons are generated by special  प्रकार  of stem cells .
Astrocytes , a type  of  glial cell ,  have   भी  been observed  to  turn into neurons by virtue of  the  stem cell characteristic pluripotency .
In humans , neurogenesis  largely  ceases  दौरान  adulthood—but  in  two brain areas , the hippocampus and olfactory bulb  ,  there is  दमदार  evidence for  पीढी  of substantial numbers of new  न्यूरॉन्स  .
सुपर  Bowl XLIII  थी  an American football  खेल  between the  अमरीकी  Football Conference ( AFC  )   चैंपियन  Pittsburgh  स्टीलर्स  and  the  National  फ़ुटबॉल  Conference ( NFC )  चैंपियन  Arizona  कार्डिनल्स  to decide the National Football League  (  NFL ) champion for  the   2008  season .
The  स्टीलर्स  defeated the Cardinals by  the  score of  27–23  .
The game  थी  played  on  February 1  ,   2009  , at Raymond James Stadium  in  Tampa , Florida .
With  इस  win , the Steelers became  the  first team to  जीत  six Super Bowls .
Pittsburgh , who finished the  नियमित   ऋतु  with a 12–4  रिकार्ड   ,  also won their second Super Bowl in four years after winning  सुपर   कटोरी  XL at the end  of  the 2005 season .
The Cardinals  डाला  the  खेल   seeking   उनके   पहला  NFL title since  1947  ,  the  longest championship drought  in   the  league .
The club became an unexpected  विजेता  during the  नियमित  season , compiling a 9–7  रिकार्ड  , and  the   playoffs   साथ   the  aid of  सिर  coach Ken  whisenhunt   ,  who was  the  Steelers ' offensive coordinator in Super  कटोरी  XL ,  और  the re-emergence of quarterback  कर्ट  Warner  ,  who was the Super  कटोरी  MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with his  पूर्व  team , St. Louis  मेढ़ों  .
Pittsburgh  कूद   to  a 17–7 halftime lead  ,  aided by  linebacker  James Harrison  's   सुपर  Bowl record 100-yard interception  वापसी   लिये   a  touchdown  .
trailing  20–7 at the start  of   the   चौथी  quarter  ,  Arizona  scored  16  अनुत्तरित  points , including wide receiver Larry  fitzgerald  's  64-yard  touchdown reception , to take the  सीसे  with 2:37 remaining in the game  .
लकिन  the Steelers  marched  78  गज  to  स्कोर  on  चौड़ी   receiver  Santonio Holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left  .
Holmes , who  caught   नौ  passes for 131  गज  and  a  touchdown , including  चार  receptions for 73 yards on that final game-winning  ड्राइव   ,  was named Super  कटोरी  MVP .
He became the sixth wide receiver to win  the   पुरस्कार  , and  भी  was the third Pittsburgh  receiver   to  win  the  award , following Lynn  swann  and Hines Ward .
Despite the global financial crisis  और  limited amount of ancillary festivities that  हैं  normally held  पहले  the game ,  the  NBC television network  ब्रॉडकास्ट   आकर्षित  an average U.S. audience of 98.7  लाख   दर्शक   ,  making  it  the most watched Super  कटोरी  in history  to  that  पाइंट   .
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum  ,  showing various properties  आरपार  the range  of  frequencies  और  wavelengths
The  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  spectrum is  the  range of  सब  possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
the   ``   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  spectrum '' of an  ऑब्जेक्ट  has a different meaning  ,  and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation  उत्सर्जित  or absorbed by  कि  particular object .
The electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम  extends  इससे   नीचे  the  कम  frequencies used for modern  रेडियो  communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength (  high-frequency   )  end , thereby covering wavelengths  इससे   हज़ारों  of kilometers down to a  भिन्न  of the size of an  अणु  .
The limit  लिये  long wavelengths is the size  of  the universe itself  ,  while  it  is  विचार  that the short wavelength  सीमा  is in  the  vicinity of the Planck  लंबाई  , although in principle the spectrum  is  infinite and continuous .
Most parts of  the  electromagnetic spectrum are used  in  science for  spectroscopic   और   अन्य  probing  interactions  , as  तरीके  to study and characterize matter  .
In addition ,  विकिरण   इससे   विभिन्न   भाग  of the spectrum  रै  found many  अन्य  uses for communications and  निर्माण  ( see electromagnetic radiation  लिये  more applications  )  .
लेजेंड
Marchantia ,  a   liverwort
Bryophyte  is  a traditional name used to  refer  to  सब  embryophytes ( land plants  )   कि  do not  have   सच्चा   vascular  tissue and are therefore called  '  non-vascular plants ' .
Some bryophytes  do  have  specialized   ऊतकों  for the transport of water  ;  however since  ये  do  नहीं   contain   lignin  ,  वे  are not  माना  to be  सच्चा  vascular  ऊतक  .
Currently  bryophytes  are  विचार  not  to  be a natural or monophyletic group  ;  however the name  is  convenient and remains in use as  a   सामूहिक  term for  mosses  , hornworts  ,   और   liverworts   .
Bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive structures  (  gametangia and  sporangia  ) , but  वे   उपज  neither flowers nor  बीज  ,  reproducing  via spores .
The  पद  bryophyte comes from Greek βρύον , bryon ,  ``  tree-moss  ,  oyster-green ''  +  φυτόν  -   phyton  `` plant '' .
a  bank is  a  financial institution and  a  financial intermediary  कि  accepts deposits and channels  those  deposits into lending activities , either directly  by  loaning or  indirectly  through  पूंजी   बाज़ार  .
A bank is the  कनेक्शन  between  ग्राहक  that  have  capital deficits and customers with capital surpluses .
Due to their influence within a financial system  और  an  अर्थव्यवस्था  , banks are  generally  highly  regulated  in most countries .
सबसे  banks operate under a system  ज्ञात  as fractional reserve  बैंकिंग  where they  थाम   तभी   a   छोटी  reserve  of   the  funds deposited  और  lend out the  बाकी  for  लाभ   .
They  हैं   generally  subject to  न्यूनतम  capital requirements which  हैं  based on an international set  of  capital standards ,  ज्ञात   as  the Basel  accords   .
the  oldest bank still  in  existence is Monte dei Paschi di  सियेना  , headquartered in Siena  ,   इटली  , which has  महरूम   ऑपरेटिंग  continuously  चूंकि  1472  .
it   is  followed  by  Berenberg  बैंको   of   हैम्बर्ग  ( 1590 ) and Sveriges Riksbank of  स्वीडन  ( 1668 ) .
Banking  in  its modern  भाव  evolved in rich  शहरों  of Renaissance Italy ,  ऐसे   as  Florence  ,   वेनिस   और   जेनोआ  .
In the  इतिहास   of   बैंकिंग  ,  a  number of banking  dynasties  —among  उन्हें  notably  medici   ,   fugger  ,  welser   ,  Berenberg  ,   baring  and Rothschild —have played a central role  over  many centuries .
The Xbox  is  a  वीडियो  game console manufactured  by  Microsoft .
it  was released on November  15  , 2001 in North  अमेरिका  , February  22  ,  2002  in Japan , and March 14  ,  2002 in Australia and  यूरोपीय   .
It was Microsoft  's  first foray into the gaming console market .
as  part  of   the   sixth-generation  of gaming ,  the  Xbox competed with Sony 's PlayStation  2  , Sega 's Dreamcast  (  which stopped American sales before the  एक्सबॉक्स  went  on  sale  )  ,  और  Nintendo  's  GameCube .
The Xbox was the first console  offered   by  an American  कम्पनी   बाद  the Atari Jaguar stopped  बिक्री   in   1996  .
The  एकीकृत  Xbox Live service launched  in   नवम्बर   2002  allowed  खिलाड़ी  to play games  ऑनलाइन  with  a  broadband connection .
It  पहला   competed  with Dreamcast 's  ऑनलाइन  service but later primarily competed with  प्लेस्टेशन   2  's  ऑनलाइन  service .
Although these two are free while Xbox Live  जरूरी  a subscription  ,   as  well as broadband-only  कनेक्शन  which was not  completely  adopted yet , Xbox  सजीव   थी  a success due to  बेहतर  servers , features  ऐसे  as a buddy  सूची  , and milestone titles like Halo 2 released in  नवम्बर  2004  ,   जिससे  is the  best-selling  Xbox  वीडियो  game and was by far  the  most popular  ऑनलाइन  game for years .
Xbox 's successor , the Xbox  360   ,   थी   शुभारम्भ   in  November 2005 .
the   एक्सबॉक्स  was discontinued in late 2005  in  Japan where sales  यहूद   ग़रीब   .
it  was discontinued in late 2006  in  Europe and early 2007 in  उत्तर  America  .
the   पिछला   एक्सबॉक्स  game in Europe was Tony Hawk 's  प्रोजेक्ट  8 released in  नवम्बर  2006 ,  और   the  last game  in  North America was Madden NFL 09 released in  अगस्त  2008 .
Support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was  discontinued  on  कूच   2  ,  2009   ,   stating  that any  in-warranty  repair now  needed   होगा  not be undertaken .
Xbox access to  एक्सबॉक्स   सजीव   थी  stopped on April 15 , 2010 .
The Gospel  according  to John  (  Greek  τὸ  κατὰ Ἰωάννην  εὐαγγέλιον  ) , commonly referred to as the Gospel of John  or  simply John and often  referred  to  in   नई  Testament scholarship as the Fourth Gospel , is an  खाता  of  the  public  मंत्रालय  of Jesus .
It begins  साथ  the witness and  प्रतिज्ञान   by  John the  बैपटिस्ट  and  concludes  with the death ,  दफ़न   ,   क़यामत   ,   और  post-resurrection appearances of Jesus .
इस   खाता   is  fourth  of  the canonical gospels , after the synoptics Matthew  ,  Mark and Luke .
राज्य  that the book  गर्भाशयी  from the  गवाही  of the ' disciple  जिसको  Jesus loved .  '
Along with Peter , the unnamed  शिष्य  is especially close  to   यीशु  , and early-church  परंपरा   पहचाना   उसे  as John the  apostle  , one of Jesus  '  Twelve  रसूलों   .
the  gospel  is  closely related  in  style and content to  the   तीन   surviving  Epistles of John such that commentators treat  the  four books together , yet  ,  according to most modern scholars , John was  नहीं  the author  of  any  of  these books .
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship  अधिक   और   अधिक  has placed John within  a   first-century  Jewish context .
रेमंड  E. Brown  किया  pioneering work to  ट्रेस   the   विकास  of  the   परंपरा  from which the gospel arose  .
The discourses seem to be concerned  साथ   the  actual issues  of  the church-and-synagogue debate at  the  time when  the  Gospel was written .
It is notable that , in the  इन्जील  ,  the   जातियाँ   स्टिल  appears to define itself primarily against Judaism ,  बल्कि   than  as part  of  a  wider  Christian church .
हालांकि  Christianity  प्रारंभ   as  a movement  भीतर  Judaism , gradually Christians  और   यहूदियों  became bitterly opposed .
John presents a ``  उच्चतर   ''   christology  than  the   synoptics  , meaning  कि  it describes Jesus as the  अवतार  of the divine Logos  through  whom all things were  बना  , as the object of veneration  ,   और   अधिक   explicitly  as God  incarnate  .
Only in John does Jesus talk at length about  खुद   और   उसके  divine  भूमिका  , often shared with  the  disciples only .
Against the synoptics , John focuses largely on different miracles ( including resurrecting  lazarus  ) , given as signs meant to  engender   आस्था   .
synoptic  elements such as  parables  and exorcisms are  नहीं   मिला  in John .
It  presents   a  realized  eschatology  in which salvation is  already  present for the believer .
The  plagues  of Egypt (  )  , also called the Ten  plagues  ( ) or the Biblical  plagues  ,  यहूद  ten calamities  कि  , according to  the   biblical  Book of Exodus  ,   इसराईल  's  परमेश्वर  , Yahweh , inflicted  upon  Egypt to  राजी  Pharaoh to release the ill-treated  israelites  from slavery .
pharaoh   capitulated   बाद  the  दसवाँ  plague ,  triggering  the  exodus  of the Jewish people .
The plagues were designed to  कंट्रास्ट  the power of Yahweh  साथ  the  नपुंसकता  of  मिश्र   's  various gods .
कुछ  commentators have associated several of  the  plagues  साथ   निर्णय  on specific gods associated with  the  Nile  ,   प्रजनन   और  natural phenomena .
The plagues of Egypt are also mentioned  in   the  Quran (  7,133–136  ) .
according  to the  किताब   of  Exodus , God proclaims  कि   सब   the  gods  of  Egypt will be judged through the  दसवाँ  and  फाइनल  plague:
John Martin 's painting of the  प्लेग  of hail and fire  (  1823  )   .
A role-playing game ( RPG and sometimes roleplaying  खेल  )  is   a  game in which players assume the roles of characters in  a   fictional   सेटिंग   .
खिलाड़ी  take responsibility  लिये  acting  आउट  these  भूमिकाएँ  within  a  narrative  ,   either  through literal acting or through  a   प्रक्रम  of structured decision-making or character  विकास   .
क्रियाएँ  taken within many games succeed or  असफल   according   to  a formal system of rules and  दिशानिर्देश   .
वहीँ  are several forms of  आरपीजी   .
The original  रूप  , sometimes  पुकारा  the tabletop RPG , is conducted  through  discussion ,  whereas  in live action  role-playing   खेल  ( LARP ) players  physically   perform  their characters ' actions .
In both of  ये  forms  ,  an arranger called a game master (  gm  )  प्रायः   decides  on the  नियम  and  सेटिंग  to be used and acts as  रेफरी  , while each of  the  other players  plays  the role of a  सिंगल   अक्षर  .
अनेक  varieties of RPG also exist in electronic media , such as  multi-player   text-based  MUDs and their graphics-based  successors   ,  massively multiplayer  ऑनलाइन  role-playing  खेल   (  MMORPGs ) .
Role-playing games also include  single-player   ऑफ़लाइन  role-playing video games in which players  कंट्रोल  a character or team who undertake quests  ,  and may include capabilities that advance using statistical mechanics .
ये  games often  share  settings and rules with  tabletop  RPGs  ,  but emphasize character  उन्नति  more  than   collaborative  storytelling  .
despite  this variety of forms , some game  फ़ॉर्म   ऐसे  as trading card games  और  wargames that are related to role-playing  खेल  may not be  शामिल   .
Role-playing  कार्यकलाप  may  sometimes  be present in such games  ,  but it  is  not the primary  फ़ोकस  .
the  term  is   भी  sometimes used to  describe  roleplay simulation games and exercises used in teaching , training  ,  and  अकादमिक   शोध  .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War  between   the  States or  बस  the  सिविल   युद्ध   (  see naming )  ,   थी  a civil  युद्ध   लड़ा  from 1861 to 1865 between  the   संयुक्त  States  (  the ``  संघ  '' or  the   ``   उत्तर   ''  )  और  several Southern  स्लेव  states that declared their  secession  and  formed  the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the  ``   दक्षिण  '' ) .
the   युद्ध  had  इसके  origin in the issue of slavery  ,   विशेषकर  the extension of  गुलामी   into  the western territories  .
Foreign  शक्तियां  did not  intervene  .
बाद  four years of  खूनी   कॉम्बैट  that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed  much   of  the South 's  अवसंरचना  , the Confederacy  collapsed  , slavery was abolished  ,   और  the difficult  पुनर्निर्माण  process  of  restoring  नेशनल  unity and guaranteeing rights to  the  freed slaves began  .
in  the 1860 presidential election , Republicans  ,  led  by  Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding  गुलामी  into  संयुक्त   राज्य  ' territories .
lincoln  won ,  लकिन  before  उसके  inauguration on March  4   ,   1861   ,  seven cotton-based  स्लेव  states formed the Confederacy  .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming  republicans  rejected secession  as  illegal  .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not  initiate  civil war  .
Eight  बाकी  slave states continued to reject  काल्स  for secession .
Confederate forces  जब्त  numerous  संघीय   दुर्गों  within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
a   सलाम  Conference failed to find a compromise , and both sides prepared for war .
The  confederates  assumed that European  देशों  were  so  dependent on `` King Cotton `` that  वे  would  intervene  ;  none  did  और  none recognized  the  new Confederate States  of   अमेरिका  .
Hostilities began  on  April  12  , 1861 , when  confederate   शक्तियां  fired upon Fort  sumter  , a  कुंजी   फोर्ट  held  by   संघ   सैनिकों  in  दक्षिण   कैरोलिना  .
lincoln   पुकारा   लिये  each  राज्य  to provide  सैनिकों  to retake  the   फोर्ट  ; consequently  ,   चार  more slave  राज्य  joined the Confederacy , bringing  उनके   कुल  to eleven .
the  Union soon controlled  the   किनारा   राज्य   और  established  a  naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The  पूर्वी  Theater  थी  inconclusive  in  1861–62  .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign  into  Maryland  (  a  संघ  state ) ended with Confederate  रिट्रीट  at the Battle  of  Antietam , dissuading  अंग्रेजों  intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation , which made ending slavery a war goal .
to  the west  ,  by summer  1862  the Union destroyed  the  Confederate river navy  ,   तब   much  of their  पश्चिमी  armies , and the  संघ   at  Vicksburg split the Confederacy in  दो  at the Mississippi River  .
in  1863 ,  रॉबर्ट  E. Lee 's  confederate  incursion north ended at  the  Battle of  gettysburg   .
Western successes  led  to  ulysses  S. Grant command of all  संघ  armies  in   1864   .
in  the Western Theater  ,  William T.  शरमन  drove east to  कैप्चर  Atlanta and marched  to  the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the  रास्ता  .
The  संघ  marshaled the resources  और  manpower to attack  the  Confederacy from all  दिशानिर्देश  , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the  overland   अभियान  towards Richmond , the Confederate  पूंजी   .
The defending  confederate  army failed  ,  leading to  ली  's surrender  to  Grant at Appomattox Court House  on  April 9 , 1865 .
the   अमरीकी   सिविल  War was  एक  of the earliest  सच्चा   औद्योगिक   युद्धों  .
Railroads ,  the  telegraph , steamships ,  और  mass-produced weapons  यहूद  employed  extensively  .
The  mobilization   of  civilian factories ,  खानों  , shipyards , banks , transportation and  खाना  supplies  सब  foreshadowed World  युद्ध  I .
It remains  the   deadliest   युद्ध   in   अमरीकी  history , resulting in the deaths of  an  estimated  750,000  soldiers  और  an undetermined number of civilian  हताहत  .
इतिहासकार  John Huddleston estimates  the  death toll at ten  प्रतिशत  of all  उत्तरी   males  20–45 years old  ,  and 30 percent of all  दक्षिणी   श्वेत  males  aged  18–40  .
The definition of the  संसार   's  busiest airport has  महरूम  specified by the Airports Council International in Geneva , Switzerland .
The ACI defines  और  measures the following  तीन  types  of  airport  traffic:
यात्री   ट्रैफ़िक  :  कुल  passengers emplaned and deplaned , passengers in  पारगमन   गिने  once
Cargo traffic : loaded and  मोड  freight and mail in  मीट्रिक   टन
Traffic  आंदोलनों  :  अवतरण  and take-offs of aircraft
World War I ( WWI  )   थी  a  वैश्विक  war  केंद्रित  in  यूरोपीय  that began  on   28   जुलाई  1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918  .
It was predominantly  पुकारा  the World War or the Great  युद्ध   इससे  its occurrence until  the   प्रारंभ  of  संसार   युद्ध  II  in   1939  , and the  पहला   संसार  War or World War I thereafter .
it  involved all the world  's   ग्रेट   शक्तियां  ,  जिससे  were  समवेत  in two opposing  alliances  : the Allies ( based  on  the Triple  entente  of the United  किंगडम  , France  और  Russia ) and the  सेंट्रल  Powers (  originally  the Triple  गठबंधन  of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ;  लकिन  , as  austria–hungary  had  लिया   the  offensive  विरूद्ध  the agreement  ,  Italy did not enter into  the  war )  .
These alliances were  दोनो   reorganised   और  expanded  as   अधिक  nations  डाला  the war : Italy , Japan and the  संयुक्त  States joined the Allies ,  और   the  Ottoman Empire  और  Bulgaria the  सेंट्रल  Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70  लाख  military personnel ,  सहित   60   लाख  Europeans ,  यहूद  mobilised in one of the largest wars  in  history  .
अधिक  than 9  लाख  combatants were killed , largely because of  technological  advancements that  led   to  enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict  in  world history ,  subsequently   paving  the way for various political changes , such as revolutions  in  many of  the  nations involved .
One of  the  long-term causes of the war was  the  resurgence of imperialism in the  विदेशी  policies of  the  great  शक्तियां   of   यूरोपीय  .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke  फ्रांज   फर्डिनेंड  of Austria , the heir to the throne of  austria-hungary   ,  on 28 June  1914  by  यूगोस्लाव  nationalist Gavrilo Princip  in   साराजेवो   triggered  a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an  ultimatum  to the Kingdom of  सर्बिया   .
Several alliances formed over  the  previous decades were invoked .
Within weeks  ,  the major powers were  at  war and , via  उनके  colonies , the conflict soon  स्प्रेड  around the world .
on  28 July ,  the  Austro-Hungarians fired  the   पहला  shots  of  the  युद्ध   as   तैयारी   लिये  the  आक्रमण  of  सर्बिया   .
While the Russians  mobilised   ,  the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the  रास्ता  to France , providing a casus  belli  for Britain 's declaration of  युद्ध  against Germany .
After the  जर्मनी   कूच  on  पेरिस  was brought to a  halt—the  so-called Miracle  of  the Marne —the Western Front settled into  a   स्थिर  battle of attrition with  a  trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On  the   पूर्वी   सामने   ,   the   रूसी  army was successful  विरूद्ध  the Austro-Hungarians  ,  but was stopped  in  its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
in  November  the   उस्मानी   साम्राज्य   joined  the war ,  खोलने  up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went  to   युद्ध  in 1915  और  Romania in  1916   .
in  Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in  कूच   1917  and a subsequent revolution  in   नवम्बर  brought the Russians  to   शर्तें  with the Central Powers  .
After  a   1918  German  अप्रिय  along  the  western front  ,  the  allies   drove  back the  germans  in a  श्रेणी  of successful offensives and American  शक्तियां   began   प्रवेश  the trenches .
Germany  ,  which had its own trouble with revolutionaries ,  सहमत   to  an armistice  on   11  November 1918  .
The  युद्ध   ended   in   विजय   लिये  the  allies  .
Events on the  घर  fronts were as tumultuous  as  on the battle fronts , as the  भागीदार   आजमाया   to  mobilize their manpower and economic resources  to  fight  a  total war  .
by  the end  of  the war ,  चार  major imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and  उस्मानी   empires—ceased  to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost  a  great amount of territory ,  जबकि   the  latter two  यहूद  dismantled entirely  .
The map of central  यूरोपीय   थी  redrawn  into  several  छोटी  states .
the  League  of   राष्ट्र   थी  formed  in  the  आशा   of  preventing another such conflict  .
The European nationalism spawned by  the  war  और   the  breakup  of   empires  , the  परखना   of  Germany 's defeat and  समस्याएं  with the  सन्धि   of  Versailles  हैं  agreed to be  कारकों   contributing  to World War II  .
The  deepwater  Horizon  आयल  spill ( also referred to as the  bp   आयल  spill , the  bp  oil disaster , the  गल्फ   of  Mexico oil  spill   ,  and the Macondo blowout ) was  an  oil  spill  in the Gulf  of  Mexico  on   the  BP  -operated   macondo  Prospect , considered the largest accidental marine oil  spill   in  the history  of  the  पेट्रोलियम   उद्योग  , estimated to  be  between 8 % and 31 %  larger  in  आवाज़  than the earlier  ixtoc  I oil  spill  .
following   the  explosion  और   डूब   of  the  deepwater  Horizon oil  रिग   ,  which  claimed   11  lives ,  a  sea-floor  आयल   gusher  flowed unabated for 87 days , until it was capped on 15 July 2010  .
The  कुल   निर्वहन  is estimated  at   .
A massive response ensued to  protect  beaches ,  वेटलैंड्स  and  मुहानों  from  the  spreading  आयल  utilizing skimmer ships , floating booms , controlled burns and of Corexit  आयल   dispersant   .
After several  विफल  efforts  to  contain the flow , the  खूब  was declared sealed  on  19 September  2010   .
Some reports  indicate  the  खूब  site continues  to   लीक  .
Due  to  the months-long  spill   ,  along with  प्रतिकूल   प्रभाव  from the  जवाब  and cleanup  क्रियाएँ  ,  extensive  damage to marine and  वन्यजीव  habitats ,  फ़िशिंग  and tourism industries , and human health problems  have  continued through  2013.three  years after the  spill  , tar balls  could  still be found  on  the  मिसिसिपी  coast .
Numerous investigations explored the causes of the explosion and record-setting spill  .
notably   ,  the U.S. government 's  सितंबर  2011 report pointed to defective  सीमेंट  on the well , faulting mostly BP , but also  खूब  operator Transocean and  ठेकेदार   halliburton   .
Earlier in 2011 , a White House commission likewise blamed BP  और  its partners  लिये   a  series of cost-cutting decisions and an insufficient safety  प्रणाली  , but also  concluded  that the spill  resulted  from  ``  systemic  ''  root causes and  ``  absent significant reform in both industry  practices  and government policies , might  खूब  recur '' .
in   नवम्बर   2012  , BP  और  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Department of Justice settled federal criminal charges with BP pleading  अपराधी  to 11  रिश्तो  of manslaughter  ,   दो   misdemeanors  ,  और  a  felony   गिनती   of  lying to Congress .
bp  also  सहमत  to four years of government monitoring of its safety practices and ethics  ,  and the  पर्यावरणीय   सुरक्षा  Agency  घोषित  that  bp  would be temporarily banned  इससे   नई  contracts with  the   us  government .
bp   और  the  विभाग   of  Justice agreed to  a   record-setting  $ 4.525 billion  in  fines  और  other payments but  further  legal proceedings not  अपेक्षित  to  conclude  until  2014   हैं   जारी  to determine payouts  और   जुर्माना  under the  साफ  Water Act and the Natural  संसाधन  Damage  मूल्यांकन   .
As  of  February 2013  ,  criminal  और  civil  settlements   और  payments  to   a  trust fund had cost the company  $  42.2 billion  .
`` Where the  गलियों  Have No Name '' is  a  song by rock  बैंड   u2  .
It is the opening track from their  1987   एल्बम   the  Joshua  पेड़  and was  released  as the album  's  third  सिंगल   in  August 1987  .
The song 's  आँकड़ा   is  a repeating guitar  arpeggio   using  a delay  प्रभाव  , played during  the  song  's   परिचय  and again at the  समाप्त  .
Lead  vocalist  Bono wrote the lyrics in  जवाब   to   the  notion that it is possible to identify  a  person 's  धर्म  and income  आधारित   on  the street on which they lived ,  विशेषकर   in   belfast   .
During the band 's difficulties  रिकॉर्डिंग  the song ,  निर्माता  Brian Eno considered erasing the song  's   टेपों   to   have   उन्हें  start from scratch .
`` Where the Streets Have  no  Name ''  थी  praised  by   आलोचकों  and became  a  commercial success , peaking at  क्रमांक  thirteen in the US , number fourteen in Canada  ,  number ten in  the  Netherlands  ,  and  क्रमांक  four in the United Kingdom .
The song  रै   become  one of the band  's  most popular songs and  रै   remained   a  staple of  उनके  live act since the  सोंग  debuted in  1987  on The Joshua Tree  दौरे   .
The song was notably performed on a Los  एंजिल्स  rooftop  लिये  the filming of  इसके   म्यूज़िक   वीडियो   ,   जिससे  won a Grammy Award for Best  प्रदर्शन  Music Video  .recently   the  song  रै  been used  by  the  एनएफएल  's  बाल्टीमोर  Ravens as their  प्रवेश  song in Super Bowl XLVII
थामस  Jeffrey `` Tom '' Hanks ( born July 9  ,   1956   )  is  an  American actor  ,  producer ,  लेखक   ,  and director .
Hanks  is  known for his  भूमिकाएँ  in Apollo  13   ,  Big , That  बात  You  do  !
, The  ग्रीन  Mile , You  've  Got  मेल  , Sleepless  in  Seattle , Charlie  विल्सन  's  युद्ध  , Catch Me If You Can  ,   फॉरेस्ट  Gump , Cast  दूर   ,   a  League  of   उनके  Own , The Da  विंची   कोड  ,  फ़रिश्ते   &  Demons , as well as  एनिमेटेड  films  जैसे  the Toy Story film  श्रेणी  ,  the  Polar Express  ,  and The Simpsons Movie  .
He has earned  और  been  मनोनीत  for numerous  पुरस्कार   दौरान   उसके  career ,  सहित   जीतना  a  सुनहरी  Globe for Best Actor and an  अकादमी  Award for Best Actor  लिये   उसके  role in Philadelphia and  a   सुनहरी  Globe ,  an   अकादमी  Award , a Screen Actors  गिल्ड   पुरस्कार   ,   और  a People 's Choice Award for Best Actor for  उसके  role in Forrest Gump , and earning  the  Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs  in   2004  .
Hanks is also  ज्ञात  for  उसके  collaboration  साथ  film  निदेशक  Steven Spielberg on Saving Private Ryan and the  mini-series  Band of  भाइयो  , which  शुभारम्भ  Hanks also as a  कामयाब  director , producer and writer .
As of  2012   ,   हैंक्स  ' films have grossed over  $  4.2 billion at the  संयुक्त  States box  दफ्तर  alone , and over  $  8.5 billion  विश्वव्यापी  making him the  उच्चतम  all-time  बक्सा  office star  .
the   केप  is an American superhero drama series .
it   premiered  on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season  as  a mid-season replacement beginning with  a  two-hour  पायलट  episode on Sunday , January  9  , 2011 at 9 pm  पूर्वी  and Pacific  समय  .
An  encore  played on  सोमवार  , January 10 , with follow-up episodes  continuing  on Monday evenings  in  the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January  17  .
NBC subsequently cut the total number of episodes to be aired from 13 to 10 as a  परिणाम   of  low ratings  .
On  कूच  2  ,  2011 , NBC  घोषित  that the  श्रेणी  finale would only be aired on the  संजाल   's  website .
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley (  or   )   ,  officially designated 1P/Halley , is the best-known of the short-period comets and is  दृश्य  from Earth  प्रत्येक  75–76  सालो  .
हैली  is  the  only short-period comet that  is  clearly visible to  the  naked  नजर  from Earth , and thus  the  only naked-eye  धूमकेतु  that might appear twice in  a  human  आजीवन  .
अन्य   naked-eye  comets may  be  brighter  और   अधिक  spectacular  ,   लकिन  will  appear  only  एकबार  in thousands  of  years .
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have been  observed  and recorded  by   खगोलशास्त्रियों   चूंकि   at  least 240 BCE  .
Clear records of  the  comet 's appearances  यहूद  made  by  Chinese  ,   babylonian  , and medieval European chroniclers , but were  नहीं  recognized as reappearances  of   the   वही   ऑब्जेक्ट   at  the  समय  .
The  धूमकेतु  's periodicity was first determined  in  1705 by English astronomer Edmond Halley , after whom it  is  now named .
Halley 's Comet  पिछला  appeared  in   the  inner  सौर  System  in  1986 and will next  appear  in mid-2061 .
दौरान  its  1986  apparition , Halley became  the   पहला  comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft , providing the first  observational  data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the  यांत्रिकी  of coma and  टेल  formation  .
These observations supported a number of  longstanding  hypotheses about comet  निर्माण  , particularly Fred  whipple  's `` dirty snowball  ''  model , which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of  a  mixture of volatile  ices   –  such as  जल  ,  कार्बन   डाइऑक्साइड   और  ammonia – and dust  .
the   मिशन   भी  provided  आंकड़ा  which  substantially   reformed   और   reconfigured   ये   विचार  ; for  उदाहरण  it  is  now  समझा  that  हैली  's  सतह   is  largely composed of dusty ,  non-volatile  materials , and that  तभी  a small  portion  of  it  is icy .
The following is a list of  the  most populous incorporated places of the  संयुक्त  States of America  .
as   पारिभाषित   by  the United States Census Bureau  ,  an  ``   incorporated  place  ``  includes a variety of  designations   ,  including  नगर  , town  ,  village , borough , and municipality .
A few  असाधारण  Census Designated Places ( CDPs  )  are  भी   शामिल   in   the  Census Bureau 's  लिस्टिंग   of  incorporated places  .
Consolidated city-counties  represent  a  पृथक  type  of  government  कि  includes the entire population of a county , or county equivalent .
कुछ  consolidated city-counties , however , include multiple incorporated places .
इस  list  presents  only that  portion  ( or `` balance '' )  of  such  संचित   city-counties  that are not a part of  another   incorporated   प्लेस   .
Note  कि  this list refers only to  the  population  of  individual municipalities within their defined  हद  , which does  नहीं  include  अन्य  municipalities or  unincorporated  suburban areas within urban  agglomerations  .
a   अलग  ranking  is   evident  when considering U.S.  महानगर   क्षेत्रफल  populations  .
The  mayflower   थी  the  जलयान  that  in  1620  transported  102 English Pilgrims , including a core group  of  Separatists , to New England .
Their  स्टोरी  is one  of   travail  and survival in  a  harsh New World environment .
a  New  जीलैंड  forward  (  in white ) takes a shot  on  goal  विरूद्ध  Cameroon  in   the   2011  FIFA U-20 World Cup .
Forwards  ,  also  ज्ञात  as  strikers   ,  are the  खिलाड़ी   on   a  team in association football who  खेल  nearest to  the  opposing team  's  goal  ,  and  हैं  therefore principally  जिम्मेदार  for scoring  लक्ष्य  .
This very advanced position  और   इसके   सीमित  defensive responsibilities mean forwards  सामान्यतः   स्कोर  more goals than other players .
This position  requires  intelligence , speed , and power , both  of  execution  और   of  thought ,  to  perform the role well  .
आधुनिक  team formations usually include one to three forwards ; two is the most  आम  .
Coaches typically field one striker who plays in an advanced  स्थिति   (  the centre forward ) , and another attacking  आगे  who plays somewhat  deeper  and assists in  बनाना  goals  as   खूब   as  scoring ( the second striker  )  .
It  चाहिए  be noted that inside forwards develop  इससे   attacking   midfield  positions  और  hence are naturally midfielders .
बार्सिलोना   fc  star Lionel Messi is  a  typical Attacking Midfielder seen as a forward due to his  शॉट  accuracy .
a  California domestic  साझेदारी  is  a  legal relationship available  to  same-sex couples ,  और  to certain  opposite-sex  couples in which at  तनिक  one  पार्टी  is at least  18  years of age .
it   affords  the  युगल  `` the same rights  ,  protections  ,  and benefits  ,   और  ... the same  जिम्मेदारियों  , obligations , and duties under law  ...   ''  as married spouses .
Enacted  in  1999 , the domestic  साझेदारी  registry was  the  first of its  दयालु  in the  संयुक्त  States created by a legislature without  अदालत  intervention .
Initially , domestic  partnerships  enjoyed very few privileges—principally just  hospital-visitation  rights and the right to be  claimed   as  a next  of  kin of the estate of  a   मृतक  partner .
The legislature has since  विस्तारित   the  scope of California domestic  partnerships  to include all of  the   अधिकारों  and  जिम्मेदारियों  common to  विवाह  .
As such , California domestic partnerships are  functionally   समतुल्य   to   सिविल   संघ   offered  in several other states .
Although  the  program  enjoys  broad support  in   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , it  रै  been the source of some controversy  .
Groups opposed to  the   मान्यता  of same-sex  परिवारों   have  challenged  the  expansion of domestic  partnerships   in  court .
Conversely ,  अधिवक्ताओं  of same-sex marriage  contend   कि   anything  less than full marriage  अधिकारों  extended to  same-sex  partners is  analogous  to  the  `` separate but  बराबर  '' racial laws of the  जिम  Crow era .
Mark  A.   जैक्सन   (   born  April  1   ,  1965 ) is an  अमरीकी  basketball coach , and former player who is the current head coach of the  सुनहरी   राज्य  Warriors  of  the NBA .
a  point  गार्ड  from  st.  John  's  University ,  he  played  लिये   the  New York Knicks ,  इंडियाना  Pacers  ,  Los Angeles Clippers  ,   डेनवर  Nuggets  ,   टोरंटो  Raptors , Utah Jazz and Houston Rockets in the  एनबीए  in  a  career spanning from  1987  to 2004 .
Jackson has also worked as a  कमेंटेटर   लिये  ESPN and  एबीसी  alongside his former  कोच  Jeff Van Gundy and play-by-play man Mike  breen  .
he  was previously an NBA  विश्लेषक  for  the   यस   संजाल   's  New Jersey Nets  खेल  .
दक्षिण  Africa has eleven  आधिकारिक   भाषाएं  :  अफ्रीकी  ,  अंग्रेज़ी  , Ndebele , Northern Sotho  ,  Sotho , Swazi  ,   tswana  , Tsonga  ,   venda  , Xhosa and  ज़ुलू  .
Fewer  than  two percent of South  africans  speak a  पहला   भाषा   अन्य  than an official one .
सबसे   दक्षिण  Africans  can  speak  अधिक  than one language .
Dutch and  अंग्रेज़ी  were  the  first official  भाषाएं  of South Africa from  1910  to 1925 .
Afrikaans  थी  added as  a  part of Dutch in 1925  .
Dutch was  replaced  by Afrikaans when South Africa became a  गणतंत्र  in 1961 , and  डच   थी  dropped  in  1983 , so between 1983 and 1994 , South Africa had two  आधिकारिक  languages :  अंग्रेज़ी  and Afrikaans .
the  English version  of  the South African  संविधान  refers to the languages by  the  names in  those   भाषाएं   :  isiZulu ,  isixhosa  , Afrikaans , Sepedi ( referring to  उत्तरी  Sotho ) ,  setswana   ,   अंग्रेज़ी  , Sesotho  (   referring  to Southern Sotho ) ,  xitsonga  , Siswati ,  tshivenda   और   isindebele   (  referring to  दक्षिणी  Ndebele ) .
in  South Africa  ,  Southern Ndebele is  ज्ञात  simply  as   ndebele  ,  as  most  अध्यक्षों  of Northern Ndebele  सजीव  in Zimbabwe .
The 1993 version of  the  Constitution  referred  to  उत्तरी   sotho  as  sesotho   sa  Leboa , but the  1996  version referred to the language as Sepedi .
Different government departments  और  official bodies use different  शर्तें  to denote Northern  sotho  .
the  main  भाषा   of  government  is  English even if South  africans  often take pride in using  स्वदेशी  languages for any purpose .
अफ्रीकी  also  सुविधाएँ  prominently in commerce together with English as  the  languages  साथ  the highest  क्रमांक  of  धाराप्रवाह  speakers  हैं  Afrikaans  और   अंग्रेज़ी  .
In  शर्तें  of linguistic classification ,  the  official languages include two West-Germanic languages ( English  और  Afrikaans ) and nine  bantu   भाषाएं   .
Four of these  हैं   nguni  languages (  ज़ुलू   ,   ख़ोसा   ,  Swati and  ndebele  ) and three  हैं   sotho–tswana   भाषाएं  ( Northern Sotho , Southern Sotho and Tswana ) .
सोंगा  is a  tswa–ronga  language  .
South African Sign Language is a  पृथक   हालांकि   incompletely  emerged national standard language which also subsumes  a  cluster of  semi-standardised  dialects .
एल्युमिनियम   नाइट्रेट  is a salt of aluminium  और  nitric acid , existing  सामान्यतः  as a crystalline  हाइड्रेट   ,  most commonly as aluminium  नाइट्रेट  nonahydrate  ,  Al  (   no3  )  3·9h2o  .
the  New York Jets are a  पेशेवर  football team  headquartered  in  florham  Park ,  नई  Jersey , representing the  नई   यॉर्क   महानगर  area .
the  team is a  सदस्य  of the Eastern Division of the American  फ़ुटबॉल  Conference  (  AFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
in  a unique arrangement for the league ,  the  Jets share MetLife Stadium in  ईस्ट  Rutherford , New  जर्सी  with  the  New  यॉर्क  Giants .
The franchise is  legally  and  corporately  registered as New York  jets   ,  LLC .
the  team was  संस्थापित  in 1959 as the Titans of New York  ,   an  original member of the  अमरीकी  Football  लीग  ; later ,  the  franchise joined  the  NFL in the  afl–nfl  merger .
the  team began  to   खेल   in  1960 at the Polo  grounds  .
Under new  स्वामित्व   ,   the  current  नाम  was adopted in  1963   और  the  मताधिकार   थी   relocated  to  shea   स्टेडियम  in 1964 and then  to  the Meadowlands Sports  जटिल  in  1984  .
The Jets  उन्नत  to the playoffs for the first time in  1968   और  went on to  compete  in Super Bowl III where they defeated the Baltimore Colts , becoming  the  first AFL  टोली  to  शिकस्त   an  NFL  क्लबों   in  an AFL-NFL World Championship Game  .
चूंकि  1968 , the Jets have appeared  in   the  playoffs thirteen times , and in the  afc  Championship  खेल  four  टाइम्स  , most recently losing to the Pittsburgh  स्टीलर्स   in  2010  .
however  ,  the   jets   have  never returned  to  the Super Bowl ,  बनाना  them one of three NFL  टीमों   to   जीत  their lone  सुपर   कटोरी   रूप   ,  along  साथ   the  New Orleans Saints  और   tampa  Bay Buccaneers .
The  टोली  's training facility , Atlantic Health Jets Training Center , which  खोली  in 2008 , is located in Florham Park  .
The team currently holds their  सालाना   प्रशिक्षण  camp  सत्र  on the  कैम्पस  of the State  विश्वविद्यालयों  of New  यॉर्क  at  cortland   in   cortland  ,  नई  York while holding  occasional   सत्र   at  the Florham Park complex .
psilocybe  semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms , also known  as   साइकेडेलिक  mushrooms , are fungi  कि   contain  psychoactive indole alkaloids .
There are multiple  colloquial   शर्तें   लिये  psilocybin  मशरूम   ,  the  सबसे  common being shrooms and magic mushrooms .
Biological genera  containing   psilocybin  mushrooms include Agrocybe  ,   conocybe  ,  copelandia   ,   galerina  , Gerronema ,  gymnopilus  ,  hypholoma  , Inocybe ,  mycena   ,  Panaeolus ,  pluteus   ,   और  Psilocybe .
There  हैं  approximately  190  species  of  psilocybin mushrooms and most  of  them fall in the genus Psilocybe  .
Psilocybin mushrooms have likely  महरूम  used  चूंकि   प्रागैतिहासिक  times and may have been depicted in  चट्टान  art  .
अनेक  cultures have used these  मशरूम  in  धार्मिक  rites .
In  आधुनिक  Western society  वे   हैं  used recreationally  लिये  their psychedelic  प्रभाव   .
Recent  अध्ययन  done  at   इम्पीरियल   कॉलेज  London and  जॉन्स  Hopkins School of  आयुर्विज्ञान  conclude that when used  properly  ,  psilocybin  acts as  an  anti-depressant  as  suggested by fMRI brain scans  .
Alaska  (  )  is  a state  in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  , situated in the  उत्तरपश्चिम  extremity of the North American continent , with  the  international boundary  साथ  Canada  to   the   ईस्ट  , the Arctic Ocean to the  उत्तर  , and the Pacific  समंदर   to  the west and south , with Russia further west  आरपार   the  Bering Strait .
अलास्का  is the largest state in the United States by area ,  the  4th least populous and  the   तनिक  densely populated of the 50 United States .
Approximately half  of  Alaska 's 731,449 residents  सजीव  within the Anchorage metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल   .
Alaska 's economy  is  dominated  by  the  आयल   ,   प्राकृतिक   गैस   ,   और  fishing industries ;  it  has  ये  resources in abundance .
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30 , 1867 , for  $  7.2  लाख   (  $ adjusted for inflation ) at approximately  दो  cents per acre  (  $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The  जमीन  went through several  प्रशासनिक  changes before  बनने  an organized (  or   incorporated   )  territory on May 11 ,  1912   ,  and  the  49th state of the  u.S.  on  जनवरी  3 , 1959 .
The  नाम   ``   अलास्का  ''  (  Аляска  )  was  already   introduced  in the  रूसी  colonial period , when  it  was used only for  the   प्रायद्वीप  and is derived from the Aleut  alaxsxaq  , meaning  ``  the mainland '' or , more literally , `` the  ऑब्जेक्ट  towards which  the  action  of  the sea is directed '' .
it   is  also known  as  Alyeska  ,  the `` great land  ''   ,  an Aleut word derived from  the   वही   रूट   .
The 101 French departments  हैं  divided into  342  arrondissements  ,  which may be translated  into  English  as  districts  .
the  capital of an arrondissement/district is called a subprefecture .
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture  (  capital )  of  the  विभाग  , that  प्रीफ़ेक्चर   is  the capital of the arrondissement ,  एक्टिंग  both as  a  prefecture  और  as  a  subprefecture  .
Arrondissements are further  विभाजित   into   cantons  and communes .
The vagina (  इससे  Latin vāgīna  ,  literally `` sheath '' or  ``  scabbard `` ) is  a  tubular tract which is  a  sex organ and has two  प्रमुख  functions ; sexual intercourse  और   प्रसव  .
in  humans  ,   इस  passage  लीड  from the opening of the vulva  to   the   गर्भाशय   (  womb  )   ,  but the vaginal tract ends at the  ग्रीवा  .
Unlike men ,  जो   have   तभी  one genital orifice , women have  दो   ,  the urethra and the vagina  .
the  vaginal  खोलने  is much  larger  than the urethral opening ,  और  both openings are protected by the labia  .
The inner  सांचे  of the vagina has a foldy texture which  can  create friction for  the  penis  दौरान   मैथुन  .
दौरान  arousal , the vagina gets moist to  सुकर   the  entrance of  the   शिश्न  .
The  latinate   बहुवचन   ``  vaginae ''  is  rarely  प्रयुक्त   in   अंग्रेज़ी  .
colloquially  , the word  योनि  is often  प्रयुक्त  to  refer  to  the  vulva  or  to the female genitals  in  general .
However ,  by   इसके   शब्दकोष  and anatomical  परिभाषाएं   ,  vagina refers exclusively  to   the  specific internal  ढांचा  .
The Cincinnati Reds are a Major League  बेसबॉल   टोली  based in Cincinnati ,  ओहियो  .
They are members of  the  National League Central Division .
स्थापित  in  1881  as  an  independent club  ,  the  टोली   became  a charter  सदस्य  of the American Association in 1882 , and  joined   the  National League in 1890 .
The club traditionally traces its origin to baseball  's  first openly professional team  in  1869 .
The Reds have  जीती  five World Series  शीर्षक  , one American  संघ  pennant , nine  नेशनल   लीग   pennants  and  टेन  division titles  .
The Reds played in  the  National  लीग  West between  1969  and 1993 and have been in the  नेशनल  League Central since  1994  .
Since  2003  , the Reds have played at Great American Ball Park  ,  built next to their  घर  from 1970 to 2002 , Riverfront Stadium  .
Bob Castellini  रै  owned the Cincinnati Reds since  2006  .
A prank stink  बमबारी  .
A stink bomb is a device designed to create an unpleasant smell .
They range in effectiveness from simple pranks to  सैन्य  grade malodorants or riot control chemical  एजेंटों  .
the  Guinness Book of Records  सूचियाँ   दो  smelliest substances  .
One is `` US Government  मानक   बाथरूम  Malodor  ''   ;  a  मिश्रण  of  आठ   रसायन  with a  stench  resembling human feces , only much stronger , designed to test the  efficacy   of  deodorizers and air fresheners  .
another   एक  , `` Who me  ?  `` , is  a  mixture of five sulfur-containing chemicals and smells like rotting food and carcasses  .
The adage ``  a  picture is worth a thousand words '' refers to the notion  कि  a complex idea can be conveyed with  बस   a  single  स्टिल  image  .
It  भी  aptly  characterizes  one of the main  लक्ष्य  of  कल्पना   ,   namely   बनाना  it  संभावित  to absorb large amounts of data quickly .
the   अभिव्यक्ति  `` Use a  चित्र  .
It  's  worth a thousand  शब्द  . ''  appears  in a  1911  newspaper article quoting  समाचारपत्र  editor Arthur Brisbane discussing journalism and publicity .
1913  newspaper  विज्ञापन
A similar phrase ,  ``  One Look Is  लायक  A Thousand Words '' , appears in  a   1913  newspaper  विज्ञापन  for the Piqua  स्वचालित   सप्लाई  House of Piqua , Ohio .
An  जल्दी  use  of   the  exact phrase appears  in  an 1918  समाचारपत्र  advertisement for the  सैन  Antonio  लाइट  which  says  : One  of  the  स्वदेश  's Greatest Editors Says : One Picture is  लायक   a  Thousand Words  the  San  अंतोनियो   लाइट   's  Pictorial  पत्रिका   of  the War Exemplifies the truth of the above  बयान  -- judging from  the   गरम  reception it  रै  received at the hands of  the   संडे   लाइट  readers  .
It is  believed  by some  कि  the modern use of the phrase stems from an article by  फ्रेड   R.  Barnard in  the  advertising trade journal Printers '  स्याही  , promoting  the  use of  बिंब  in advertisements that appeared on the sides of  streetcars  .
The December  8   ,  1921 issue  carries  an ad entitled  ,  ``  एक   dekh  is  लायक  A Thousand  शब्द  . ''
Another  ad  by  बर्नार्ड  appears in the  कूच  10 , 1927 issue with  the  phrase `` One Picture Worth Ten Thousand Words , '' where it is  labeled   a  Chinese proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ) .
the   घर   किताब  of  proverbs  ,  maxims  , and Familiar Phrases  उद्धरण  Barnard  as  saying  he  called it  ``   a  Chinese proverb ,  so  that  लोगों  would take  it  seriously . ''
जल्द   बाद  ,  the  proverb would become  popularly  attributed  to  Confucius .
The  चर्चा   of  ``  एक   चित्र  Worth Thousand  शब्द  '' versus `` One  चित्र  Worth Ten Thousand Words  ''  Wan yen  i   hua  and  10.000  miles  लायक   10.000  books is  cited  in Information graphics where the concept of many  in  different disciplines  और  cultures .
A picture is  लायक  a thousand  शब्द
despite   इस  modern  उत्पत्ति  of  the   लोकप्रिय  phrase , the sentiment has been expressed  by   पहले  writers .
For example the Russian  लेखक   इवान   तुर्गेन्येव  wrote (  in   fathers  and Sons in  1862  )  ,  ``  a   चित्र   shows  me at a glance  कया   it  takes dozens of pages of a book  to   expound  .  ''
कंप्यूटर  programmer and  लेखक  Fred Brooks makes an opposite statement regarding  प्रोग्रामिंग   in   the   mythical  Man-Month : ``  दिखाएँ  me your  flowcharts  and conceal your tables  ,  and I  shall  continue  to   be  mystified .
Show me your tables ,  और  I  won’t  usually need your  flowcharts  ;  they’ll  be  स्पष्ट  . ''
The phrase has also been spoofed by John  मैकार्थी  , the famous computer scientist , to make the opposite point :  ``  As the Chinese say , 1001  शब्द  is worth  अधिक  than a picture  .  ''
A season is a  subdivision   of  the year  ,  marked by changes in weather ,  पारिस्थितिकी   ,  and hours  of  daylight .
सीज़न  result from  the  yearly revolution of the  धरती  around the  सूर्य   और   the  tilt of the Earth  's  axis relative to the plane of revolution .
In  शीतोष्ण  and polar regions , the seasons  हैं  marked by changes  in   the  intensity  of  sunlight that  पहुँच   the  Earth 's surface , variations of which may cause  पशु   to  go  into   शीतनिष्क्रियता  or to  migrate  , and plants  to  be dormant .
During May ,  जून  and July  ,   the  northern  गोलार्ध  is exposed to more direct  धूप  because the  गोलार्ध   चेहरों  the  सूर्य   .
the  same is true of  the  southern hemisphere in  नवम्बर  , December and January  .
It is the tilt  of  the  धरती  that causes  the  Sun to be higher in the  आसमान   दौरान   the   गर्मियाँ  months  जिससे   increases   the   सौर  flux  .
However , due to seasonal  lag   ,  June , July and August  हैं  the  hottest  months  in  the northern hemisphere  और  December , January and February are  the  hottest  महीने  in the southern  गोलार्ध  .
In temperate and subpolar regions , generally  चार  calendar -based seasons ( with  उनके  adjectives ) are  पहचाना   :  spring ( vernal )  ,  summer (  estival  ) , autumn ( autumnal  )  and winter  (  hibernal ) .
However ,  ecologists  mostly use  a   छह   ऋतु  model for temperate climate regions  कि  includes pre-spring ( prevernal )  और  late summer  (  serotinal  )  as distinct seasons along with the traditional four .
Hot regions have two or three  सीज़न   ;  the  बरसात  ( or wet ,  or  monsoon )  ऋतु   और   the  dry season , and in some tropical  क्षेत्रों  , a  कूल  or mild  ऋतु  .
in  some  भाग  of  the  world , special `` seasons  ''  are  loosely  defined  आधारित   on  important events  ऐसे  as a hurricane season , tornado season or a wildfire season  .
the   छह  ecological  सीज़न
The  चार  calendar seasons , depicted in  an   प्राचीन  Roman  मोज़ेक  from Tunisia
डच  exports  in   2006
At the time of  लिखने  the Netherlands is the 17th  largest  economy  of  the world .
(  देखिए  : List of  देशों  by GDP ( nominal ) )
GDP per  capita  is roughly $ 42,000 which puts it  in   the  top 10 of  richest  nations in the world ( see :  सूची  of countries by  जीडीपी  ( PPP )  प्रति   capita   )  .
Between  1996  and  2000  annual  आर्थिक  growth ( GDP ) averaged  over  4 % , well above the European average  .
विकास  slowed  considerably   in  2001-05 as part of  the  global economic  slowdown  .
2006 and  2007  however showed economic growth of  3.4  % and 3.9  %  .
The Dutch economy  थी  hit considerably by the ongoing global financial crisis and the ensuing European debt crisis .
Several  बैंको  went bankrupt , and a  क्रमांक  of others  था   to   प्राप्त   सरकारी   सहायता  .
in  2009 the  अर्थव्यवस्था  declined with 3.5  %  , followed  by   दो  years  of  mild growth .
the   डच   अर्थव्यवस्था  is  फिलहाल   in  a recession  again  ,  साथ  an economic  मनाही  of  0.5  % in 2012  .
Inflation is  at  3.2 %  in  February 2013  .
Unemployment  रै  been relatively low  compared  to other EU nations  लिये  decades but after  mid-2012   it  has seen  a   तेज़  increase and  in  February 2013 it  रै  hit 7.7 % .
the  Netherlands  प्रबंधित  to maintain its AAA  दरजा  at least until March  2013  according to the three major credit rating agencies .
Historically , the Dutch introduced  और  invented  the   भण्डार  market  by  the  merchandise  trading through Dutch West India Company  .
The Netherlands is a founding member of the European  संघ   ,  the OECD and  the  World Trade Organization  .
Loyal  to  the  खेल  is the tenth studio album and sixth  स्टुडियो  album  by  Tupac Shakur .
It contains remixes of previously  unreleased  music recorded  by  Shakur before his death in 1996 .
released  in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  on December 14  ,  2004  (  December  12  in  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom )  ,  Loyal to the Game was  उत्पादित  by Eminem  .
The original panel of The View ; Meredith Vieira  ,   स्टार   जोन्स  , Debbie Matenopoulos and Barbara Walters in  1997  .
The  दृश्य  is  an  American talk show  ब्रॉडकास्ट  on ABC that debuted in 1997 as part of  the  network 's daytime programming block .
Created by Barbara Walters  और  Bill Geddie  ,   जो  both also serve as the show  's   कार्यपालिका  producers ,  the  program  सुविधाएँ  a panel of women as co-hosts .
साथ  with Walters , the current panel includes Whoopi Goldberg ,  जो  serves as the  मॉडरेटर   ,  Joy Behar , Elisabeth  hasselbeck  , and  sherri  Shepherd .
अंतरराष्ट्रीय   संस्करण  of the program are aired in several  देशों  .
As  of  the  2012–13  season  ,  its 16th , The View is  the  fourth-longest running  नेशनल  daytime talk  दिखाएँ   in   इतिहास  , behind The Phil Donahue Show ( 29 )  ,  the variously-named Live !
कार्यक्रम  ( 25 ) , and The Oprah Winfrey Show  (   25   )  .
prunus  virginiana , commonly called  bitter-berry  , chokecherry , Virginia bird cherry and  पश्चिमी   chokecherry  ( also black  chokecherry  for  P.  virginiana  var  .  demissa  ) , is a  प्रजाति  of bird cherry ( Prunus subgenus  padus  ) native to  उत्तर  America ; the natural  ऐतिहासिक   दायरा   of  P. virginiana includes most of the continent , except for  the  far north and far  दक्षिण  .
Los Angeles International  विमानक्षेत्र   is  the  प्राथमिक  airport serving  the  Greater Los Angeles Area , the second-most  आबादी  metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  in the  संयुक्त  States .
It is most often referred to by  इसके  IATA  विमानक्षेत्र  code LAX  ,   साथ  the  अक्षर  pronounced individually .
LAX is located in southwestern  लॉस  Angeles  साथ  the Pacific coast in  the  neighborhood  of  Westchester , from  the  downtown core and is  the   प्राथमिक   विमानक्षेत्र   of   लॉस   एंजिल्स  World  एयरपोर्ट  ( LAWA  )  , an agency  of  the Los Angeles city government formerly known  as  the Department  of   एयरपोर्ट  .
In 2011 ,  lax   थी   the  sixth busiest airport  in  the world after  hartsfield-jackson   अटलांटा  International Airport  ,  Beijing  पूंजी  International Airport , London Heathrow  विमानक्षेत्र  , Chicago  o'hare  International Airport ,  और  Tokyo Haneda International Airport  साथ  61,862,052 passengers  .
The airport holds the claim for ``  the  world 's busiest origin and destination ( O &  d  ) airport '' in 2011 that  involves  non-connecting passenger traffic .
it  is also  the  only airport  to   रैंक  among the top  पाँच  U.S. airports  लिये   दोनो  passenger  और  cargo traffic .
LAX is the busiest  विमानक्षेत्र  in the  वृहद  Los Angeles Area ,  लकिन  other airports including  bob   आशा   विमानक्षेत्र  , John Wayne Airport , Long Beach Airport , LA/Ontario International Airport  ,  and  ताड़  Springs International  विमानक्षेत्र  also serve  the  region .
LAX is also the busiest  विमानक्षेत्र  in California  और  the  वेस्ट  Coast of the United States in  शर्तें   of   उड़ान   परिचालन  , passenger traffic and air  कार्गो   कार्यकलाप  , leading it  to  be referred to  as  the  ``  Gateway  to  the Pacific Rim `` .
Peyton Williams Manning ( born March 24 ,  1976  ) is an American  फ़ुटबॉल  quarterback for the Denver Broncos of  the  National  फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL  )   .
he  played for  the   इंडियानापोलिस  Colts for  14  seasons from 1998 to 2011 .
He  is  the  बेटे   of  former NFL quarterback  आर्ची   मैनिंग  and an  elder   bhai  of New York Giants  क्वार्टरबैक  Eli Manning .
Manning played  कॉलेज   फ़ुटबॉल   लिये  the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Tennessee , leading the Volunteers to the 1997 SEC Championship in his senior season  .
however  , No  .  3  टेनेसी  lost to the No . 2  नेब्रास्का  Cornhuskers 42-17 in  the  Orange Bowl giving  नेब्रास्का  and Tom Osborne  उनके  3rd national championship in 4 years .
He was chosen by the Indianapolis  कोल्टस  with  the  first  overall  pick in  the   1998   एनएफएल  Draft .
From 1998 to 2010 , he  led  the Colts to eight ( seven AFC South and  एक   afc  East  )  division championships , two AFC championships , and to  a  Super Bowl  चैंपियनशिप  ( Super  कटोरी   xli  ) .
He has won a record four league most  मूल्यवान  player awards  ,   थी  the  सबसे  valuable  खिलाड़ी  of Super Bowl XLI , has been  नामित  to twelve  प्रो   प्याले  , has twelve 4,000-yard  गुजर  seasons ,  और   is  the Indianapolis Colts  '  all-time leader in passing yards ( 54,828 ) and touchdown passes ( 399 ) .
In 2009 , he was named the best player in  the   एनएफएल  and  फॉक्स  Sports  साथ  with Sports  illustrated   नामित  him the NFL  खिलाड़ी  of the decade of the 2000s .
in  May  2011   ,  he  underwent  neck  सर्जरी  to alleviate  गर्दन  pain  और  arm  कमज़ोरी  he dealt with during the previous  few  seasons  पहले  signing  a  five-year  ,  $ 90 million contract extension with  the  Colts  in  July 2011  .
मैनिंग  had  hoped  to play in  the  2011 season , but in  सितंबर  2011 , he underwent a much more serious second surgery : a level one  सर्वाइकल  fusion procedure .
Manning  था  never missed  an   एनएफएल   खेल  in his career  ,  but was forced to miss the  संपूर्ण   2011  season .
He was released  by  the Colts  on  March 7 , 2012  ,   और  after  an  almost two-week period where he visited  साथ   और  worked out  लिये   अनेक   एनएफएल   टीमों   ,  he  हस्ताक्षरित  with the Denver Broncos on  कूच  20 , 2012 .
Manning 's pre-snap routine has earned him the nickname ,  ``  The Sheriff ''  और   is  one of the most  recognizable   और   parodied  in  the  NFL .
The Indianapolis  कोल्टस  ' almost  विशेष  use of the hurry-up offense led to  मैनिंग  using an array  of  gestures and  मौखिक   कमांड  to call  the   खेल   at   the  line  of   मुठभेड़   बल्कि   than  in the huddle .
the  America Tower of the American  सामान्य  Center ,  the   मुख्यालय  of Baker Hughes
बेकर  Hughes is one of the world 's  largest   oilfield   सेवाएं  companies .
It operates in  over  90 countries , providing the oil  और   गैस   उद्योग  with  उत्पाद   और  services  लिये   खुदाई  , formation  मूल्यांकन  ,  पूर्णता  , production and  टंकी  consulting .
Baker  ह्यूजेस  has its  मुख्यालय  in the America Tower in  the  American General Center in  neartown   ,  Houston .
बेकर   ह्यूजेस  Incorporated was formed  जब   बेकर   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  and Hughes Tool Company merged in 1987  .
Baker Hughes operates worldwide with major  कार्यालयों  in Liverpool  ,  United  किंगडम  ; Singapore  ;  Dubai  ;  a research  और  maintenance facility  in  Celle , Germany ; Lafayette , Louisiana  ;   ह्यूस्टन  , Texas ; Pescara  ,  Italy  ;  and  kuala  Lumpur , Malaysia .
The company is administered  broadly   in   दो  hemispheres  :  the  पूर्वी   गोलार्ध  with five regions  (  Europe , Africa , the Middle East , Asia Pacific and  russia/caspian   )  and  the   पश्चिमी  hemisphere with  चार  regions  (  Canada  ,  US Land , US Gulf  ,  and  लैटिन  America ) .
Each  of  these  regions   is   subdivided  into  बाज़ार  .
The United  राज्य  one- cent coin , commonly known  as   a  penny  ,  is a  ईकाई   of  currency equaling one one-hundredth  of  a United States  डालर  .
the  cent  's  symbol is ¢  .
Its obverse has  प्रदर्शित  the  प्रोफ़ाइल   of   अध्यक्ष   अब्राहम   lincoln   चूंकि  1909  ,  the centennial of  उसके   जनम   .
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of  lincoln  's  जनम  ) to 2008 ,  the  reverse featured  the   lincoln  Memorial .
Four  अलग  reverse  डिजाइन  in 2009  सम्मानित   lincoln   's  200th  जन्मदिवस  and a  नई   ,  permanent reverse –  the  Union  शील्ड   –  was  introduced  in 2010 .
The coin is 0.75  इंच   (  19.05  mm  ) in diameter and  0.061  inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness .
the   u.S.   मिंट   's  official name for a penny is  ``  '' and  the  U.S. Treasury 's official name is ``  एक   cent  piece ''  .
the  colloquial  पद  penny derives from the British coin of the same  नाम  , the pre-decimal  संस्करण  of which  था  a similar value  .
In American English , pennies  is  the  बहुवचन   रूप   ,  other  बहुवचन  forms  पेंस   और  pee ( standard use in British English ) are not used .
As  of  2012 , it  लागत  the U.S. Mint 2.00 cents to  मेक   a  cent because of  the   लागत  of materials and production .
This figure includes the Mint’s  फिक्स्ड  components for distribution and  fabrication  ,  अनुमानित  at $  13   लाख  in FY 2011 .
it  also includes Mint overhead allocated  to   the  penny  ,   जिससे  was  $  17.7 million  लिये  2011  .
Fixed costs and overhead would  have  to be absorbed by other  circulating  coins without  the  penny .
The loss in  profitability  due  to  producing the one  cent  coin in  the  United States for  the  year of 2012 was  $  58,000,000  .
इस  was a slight decrease from 2011  ,  the year before , which  था   a  production loss of  $  60,200,000 .
or more  specifically   ,  are  शोभायमान  varieties of domesticated common carp (  cyprinus  carpio  )  that  हैं  kept  लिये   सजावटी  purposes in  बाहरी  koi ponds or  जल   gardens  .
कोई  varieties are  विशिष्ट  by coloration  ,  patterning , and scalation .
Some  of  the major colors are white  ,  black , red  ,  yellow  ,  blue , and cream .
The most  लोकप्रिय  category of koi is the Gosanke  ,  which is made  up  of the Kohaku  ,   taisho   sanshoku   ,  and Showa Sanshoku varieties .
the  American Federation of Government Employees ( AFGE ) is  an   अमरीकी  labor union representing over 650,000  कर्मचारी  of the federal  सरकारी   ,   परिचय  5,000  कर्मचारी  of the District of  कोलंबिया  , and a few hundred  निजी  sector  कर्मचारी  , mostly in and  around   संघीय   सुविधाएं   .
AFGE is the largest union for civilian , non-  डाक  federal  कर्मचारी  and the largest  संघ  for District  of  Columbia  कर्मचारी   जो  report directly to  the  mayor ( i.e. , outside of D.C. public schools ) .
it  is  संबद्ध  with  the  AFL-CIO .
a   लेट   सिल्यूरियन  sporangium  .
Green : A  spore  tetrad  .
Blue  :   a  spore bearing a trilete mark  –   the  -shaped scar  .
The  बीजाणुओं  are about  30-35  μm across
the  evolution of plants has resulted  in  increasing levels of complexity , from the  earliest   algal   मैट्स  , through bryophytes , lycopods  ,   ferns   to  the complex  gymnosperms  and angiosperms of  आज   .
जबकि   अनेक  of  the  groups which appeared earlier continue to thrive ,  विशेषकर  in the  environments  in which  वे   विकसित   ,  for a time  प्रत्येक  new grade of organisation became  अधिक   ``  successful ''  than  its  पूर्ववर्तियों  .
In the Ordovician period ,  around   ,  the first land plants  appeared   .
ये   began   to   diversify  in the  लेट  Silurian  काल  , around ,  और  the results  of  their diversification are  प्रदर्शित  in remarkable detail  in   an   जल्दी  Devonian fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert  .
इस  chert  preserved   जल्दी   पौधे   in  cellular detail ,  petrified  in  volcanic  springs .
By  the   मध्य   of  the  devonian  Period , most of  the  features recognised in plants today are present ,  सहित   जड़ें  , leaves and secondary wood ; and , by late  devonian   टाइम्स   ,  seeds had evolved .
लेट  Devonian plants  था  thereby  पहुँचे  a degree  of  sophistication  कि  allowed  उन्हें  to form  वनों  of tall trees  .
Evolutionary innovation  जारी   into   the  Carboniferous period and is still ongoing today .
Most plant groups  यहूद   अपेक्षाकृत  unscathed  by  the Permo-Triassic extinction  इवेंट  , although the structures of communities changed .
This may have set the scene for the  रूप   of  the flowering plants in the Triassic (  ~  ) ,  और  their later diversification  in  the Cretaceous and Paleogene .
The latest major group of plants to evolve were the  grasses  , which became  महत्वपूर्ण   in  the mid-Paleogene , from around .
The grasses  ,   as   खूब  as many  अन्य   समूह   ,  evolved  नई  mechanisms  of   चयापचय  to survive the low and warm  ,  dry conditions  of  the tropics over the  पिछला  .
the  winning  सुपर  Bowl  टोली  receives  the  Vince Lombardi Trophy  .
the  Super Bowl is an annual  अमरीकी  football game that determines the champion of the National Football League  (   एनएफएल  ) .
the  contest is held  in  an American city that  is  chosen three to four years beforehand  ,  usually in warm-weather or  domed   साइट   .
Since 1971 ,  the  winner  of   the  American Football  सम्मेलन  ( AFC )  चैंपियनशिप  Game has faced  the  winner of the National  फ़ुटबॉल  Conference ( NFC  )  Championship Game in the culmination of the NFL playoffs .
Before the  1970  merger between the American Football League ( AFL ) and  the  National  फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL )  ,   the  two leagues  मिले  in four  ऐसे  contests .
the   पहला  two were known as the `` AFL-NFL World  चैंपियनशिप   खेल  . ''
Super  कटोरी   iii  in  1969  was the first such game that  carried   the  `` Super  कटोरी  '' moniker , the  names  ``  सुपर   कटोरी   i  `` and `` Super Bowl II ``  यहूद   retroactively  applied to the first two  खेल  .
The  nfc  /NFL  लीड   in  Super Bowl  विन्स  with 25  ,  while the AFC /AFL has  जीती  22 .
अठारह  different  franchises  ,  सहित  teams that relocated to another city , have  जीती  the Super Bowl .
The Pittsburgh Steelers have  जीती  the  सबसे  Super Bowls with six championships (  रिकार्ड   6–2   )  ,  जबकि   दोनो  the  डलास   cowboys  and San  फ्रांसिस्को   49ers  have  पाँच  wins  प्रत्येक  ( Cowboys  5–3  ; 49ers 5–1 ) .
Dallas  और  Pittsburgh have  the  most  सुपर  Bowl appearances with eight , while the Buffalo Bills have  the  most consecutive  दिखावे   साथ   चार  losses in  a   पंक्ति  from 1990 to 1993  .
The New England Patriots , Denver Broncos  और   मिनेसोटा  Vikings  have  also  खोया  a record four Super Bowls .
Buffalo and Minnesota are both 0–4  ,  Denver  is  2–4 and New England  is  3–4 .
The  रिकार्ड   लिये  consecutive wins is two  और   is  shared by seven franchises  :  the  1966-67  Green Bay Packers , the  1972-73  Miami Dolphins  ,  the  1974-75  and 1978-79  पिट्सबर्ग  Steelers ( the only team to accomplish this feat  twice  )  ,  the 1988-89 San Francisco  49ers  , the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys ,  the  1997-98  डेनवर  Broncos  ,  and  the  2003-04 New England Patriots .
The  तभी  team with multiple Super Bowl appearances and no losses  is  the Baltimore Ravens , who in  जीतना  Super  कटोरी  XLVII unseated and  replaced  the 49ers in  कि  position  .
Four current  एनएफएल   टीमों   have   never  appeared in a Super Bowl  ,  including franchise  relocations  and renaming :  the  Cleveland Browns , Detroit Lions , Jacksonville Jaguars , and Houston Texans  ,  though both the Browns and Lions had  जीती  NFL Championship  खेल  prior to the creation of the Super  कटोरी  .
मार्टिन  County is  a  county located  in  the U.S. state of Texas  .
As of the  2010  census , its population  थी  4,799  .
Its  सीट   is  Stanton .
The  काउंटी  is named  लिये  Wylie Martin  ,  an  जल्दी  settler .
Martin  काउंटी  is  एक  of 30 prohibition ,  or  entirely dry ,  काउंटी  in  the   राज्य  of Texas  .
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP  ,   alkp  ) (  )   is   a   hydrolase   एंजाइम  responsible for removing  फास्फेट  groups from many types of molecules , including nucleotides , proteins ,  और  alkaloids .
the  process of  निकालना  the phosphate group is called dephosphorylation .
As  the  name suggests ,  क्षारीय   phosphatases  are most  प्रभावी  in an alkaline environment .
It  is  sometimes used synonymously as  मौलिक   phosphatase   .
Triticale (  ×  Triticosecale  )  , ( ) is  a  hybrid  of  wheat ( Triticum  )  and  rye   (   secale  ) first bred in laboratories  दौरान  the late 19th century .
the  grain was  originally  bred  in   स्कॉटलैंड  and Sweden .
Commercially available triticale is almost  सदा  a second generation  संकर   ,  i.e. , a  क्रॉस  between two kinds  of   प्राथमिक  ( first cross ) triticales .
as  a rule , triticale combines the yield potential and  अनाज   विशेषता  of wheat with the  बीमारी  and environmental  सहिष्णुता  ( including soil  शर्तें  ) of rye .
Only recently has  it   महरूम  developed into a commercially viable  क्रॉप  .
Depending on  the  cultivar  ,   triticale  can more or less  resemble  either of  इसके  parents .
it  is grown mostly for forage  or  fodder , although some triticale-based foods can  be  purchased at health  खाना  stores or are to be  मिला  in some  नाश्ता   cereals  .
When  क्रासिंग  wheat  और  rye  ,  wheat is used as the female parent  और   rye  as the male parent ( pollen donor ) .
the   resulting  hybrid is sterile , and must be treated with  colchicine  to  induce  polyploidy and thus the ability to reproduce  itself  .
the  primary producers  of  triticale are  कैंडल   ,  Germany  ,  France , Belarus and Australia .
In 2009 , according  to  the Food  और   कृषि  Organization (  fao  ) , 15.0 million  टन  were harvested in 29 countries  आरपार   the  world  .
the  triticale  संकरण   हैं  all amphidiploid ,  जिससे  means the  संयंत्र  is diploid for two genomes  निकला  from different species .
in  other words , triticale is  an  allotetraploid .
In earlier years  ,  most work was done on octoploid triticale .
Different ploidy levels  have   महरूम  created and evaluated over time .
The  tetraploids  showed little promise , but hexaploid  triticale  was  कामयाब   पर्याप्त   to   ढूँढें   वाणिज्यिक  application .
The  cimmyt   triticale   सुधार  program wanted  to  improve food production  और  nutrition in  विकासशील   देशों   .
Triticale has potential  in  the production of  ब्रैड   और  other food products , such as  कुकीज़   ,  pasta ,  पिज़्ज़ा  dough  और   नाश्ता   cereals  .
The  प्रोटीन   सामग्री   is  higher  than  that of  गेहूं  , although the glutenin fraction is less .
The grain  रै  also been stated to  have   उच्चतर  levels of lysine  than  wheat .
Assuming increased acceptance , the milling industry will have  to  adapt to triticale  ,  as the milling techniques  employed  for  गेहूं   हैं  unsuited  to  triticale  .
बेचें   et  al  .  found triticale  could  be used as a feed grain  ,  and  बाद   शोध  found its  मंड  was  विशेषकर  readily digested .
as   a  feed grain , triticale  is  already well established  और  of high economic importance .
It has  प्राप्त   ध्यान  as a  संभावित   उर्जा  crop ,  और  research  is   फिलहाल  being conducted  on   the  use of  the  crop  's   बायोमास   in  bioethanol production .
``  Puff , the Magic Dragon ''  is  a song written by Leonard Lipton  और   पीटर   yarrow  ,  और  made popular by Yarrow 's group Peter , Paul  और  Mary in  a   1963  recording  .
the  song  हासिल  great popularity  .
A college football national championship in the highest  स्तर   of  collegiate  खेल  in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   ,  currently the National  कॉलेजिएट  Athletic Association ( NCAA  )  Division I Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ) , is  a  designation awarded  annually   by  various  third-party  organizations to their  चयन   (  s ) of the best  कॉलेज   फ़ुटबॉल  team (  s   )  .
Division I  fbs  (  formerly  Division  i-a   )   फ़ुटबॉल  is the only NCAA sport in which a  वार्षिक  champion is not determined by an NCAA sanctioned  चैंपियनशिप  event .
Because the championship team  is  not  संकल्पित  by a NCAA championship or  टूर्नामेंट  event , it is sometimes unofficially referred  to   as   a  `` mythical  नेशनल   चैंपियनशिप   ``   .
Since the  ncaa  ,  the  sport 's  शासी  body , does not determine or  घोषित   a  national  चैंपियन   in  this  फ़ील्ड  , determination of such has  प्रायः   engendered  controversy .
A championship  टोली  is  independently  declared by various individuals and organizations , often referred to  as  ``  चयनकर्ताओं  '' .
These choices are sometimes at odds  साथ  each other  .
While the NCAA has never officially  endorsed   an  annual championship team  ,  it  रै  documented the choices of several selectors in  the   आधिकारिक  NCAA Football Bowl  subdivision  Records .
In addition  ,   विभिन्न  third party analysts have independently published their  अपना  lists of what they  have   संकल्पित  to  be  the most  legitimate   चयन  for each season  .
These are also often at  हालात   साथ   प्रत्येक   अन्य   as  well as  व्यक्तिगत  school 's claims on national championships ,  जिससे   ,  for  कोई  particular  ऋतु  ,  may  or  may   नहीं  correlate to the  चयन  published elsewhere .
Currently , two  widely  recognized national  champions  selectors are  the   संबद्ध   दबायें   ,   जिससे   conducts   a   पोल   of   फ़ुटबॉल  sportswriters , and the USA  आज  Coaches '  पोल   ,  a  पोल  of  अमरीकी   फ़ुटबॉल  Coaches Association  क्रियाशील  coaches that is contractually  obligated  to  नाम  the winner  of  the Bowl  चैंपियनशिप   श्रेणी   चैंपियनशिप   खेल  as its national  चैंपियन  .
The  मिल्वौकी  Brewers are a professional  बेसबॉल  team  आधारित  in Milwaukee , Wisconsin .
The  टोली  is a  सदस्य  of the Central Division of  प्रमुख   लीग   बेसबॉल  's  नेशनल   लीग  and plays its home games at Miller Park .
The team is so named because of the  नगर   's  association  साथ  the brewing industry .
The Washington Nationals are  a  professional baseball  टोली   आधारित   in  Washington ,  d.c  .
the  Nationals  हैं   a   सदस्य  of the  ईस्ट  Division  of  the National League of Major League  बेसबॉल  ( MLB ) .
The team 's home ballpark is  नागरिकों  Park  ,  located  on   दक्षिण  Capitol  गली   in   southeast  D.C. , near  the  Anacostia  नदी   .
The  पार्क  opened  in  2008 , replacing RFK Stadium , the  टोली   's  home from  2005  to 2007  .
The Nationals  '   नाम   गर्भाशयी  from the  पूर्व  Washington baseball  टोली   कि  had  the  same name  (  used interchangeably with Senators  )  .
Their  उपनाम   is   ``  the  nats  ''  —a  shortened  संस्करण  that was also  प्रयुक्त   by   the  old D.C.  टीमों   .
an  expansion  मताधिकार  , the club was  संस्थापित  in  as  the Montreal Expos , the first major league team in Canada .
They were based in Montreal , Quebec , and played their home games  at  Jarry Park Stadium  और   बाद  in Olympic Stadium .
In ,  the   expos  won  a   प्रभाग  championship  ,   जीती  their first-ever playoff series  by  defeating the Philadelphia  फ़िलीज़  ,  3–2  , and advanced to the National League  चैंपियनशिप  Series  ,  where  वे  would  go  on to  खोना  to the Los  एंजिल्स  Dodgers , 3–2  ,   in  their  तभी  postseason appearance during the strike-shortened  ऋतु   .
The Expos had  उनके  highest winning  प्रतिशत  in the strike-shortened  ऋतु  of ,  जब  the  टोली   था  the best record in baseball  .
the  team  's  subsequent shedding of players  caused   प्रशंसक   ब्याज   to  drop off  .
बाद  the  2001   ऋतु  , MLB considered revoking the  टोली  's  मताधिकार   ,   साथ  with either the  मिनेसोटा   जुड़वा  or the Tampa  खाड़ी  Devil  किरणें  .
After being purchased by MLB in 2002 , the team was  स्थानांतरित   पहले   the  season  to  Washington  और  renamed the Nationals , the first relocation since the  दूसरी   वॉशिंगटन  Senators moved  to  Arlington  ,  Texas ,  और  became  the  Texas  रेंजरों   in  .
the  Nationals are one of two MLB franchises ,  और   the  only one  in  the  नेशनल   लीग   ,  that has  never  played in a World Series ( the Seattle Mariners are  the   अन्य  )  .
A contingent fee (  in   the   संयुक्त   राज्य  )  or  conditional fee  (  in England  और  Wales  )  is any  शुल्क  for services  provided  where the fee is payable only if  वहीँ   is  a favourable result  .
in  the law  ,  it is defined as  a  `` fee charged for a  वकील  's  सेवाएं  only if  the  lawsuit is  कामयाब  or is favorably settled out of  अदालत  ...  .
Contingent fees are usually calculated as  a   प्रतिशत  of the client 's net  रिकवरी  . ''
In  the  English legal system , it is generally  referred  to  as  no  जीत  no fee  .
A conditional fee  अनुबंध   between   a   विधि   कड़  and  a  client  .
the  usual  रूप   of   इस   अनुबंध  is that the solicitor  होगा  take  a  law  मामला  on the  समझना  that if lost  ,  no payment is made .
However , if the case is won  ,   the  lawyer  होगा  be entitled to the  सामान्य  fee based on hourly  बिलिंग  , plus a success fee  .
The  कामयाबी   शुल्क  in  इंग्लैण्ड   जरूर   be  as a  प्रतिशत  no  वृहद  than 100 % of the  सामान्य  fee .
This  contrasts  with  the  contingency fee in  the   us  , which  देता  the successful  attorney  a percentage of the damages awarded in favor  of  his client .
This  makes  it  easier   लिये  the poor to pursue their  सिविल  rights since otherwise ,  to   मुकदमा  someone  लिये  a  अपकृत्य  , one  जरूर  first  be  wealthy  पर्याप्त  to pursue such litigation in the first place .
however  , because of the  ऊँची   रिस्क   ,  few  attorneys  will  लो   मामले  on a  आकस्मिकता  basis unless they feel  the  case has  शुभ   मेरिट  .
According to  a  2004 book by law  प्राध्यापक   हर्बर्ट  Kritzer ,  निर्भर   शुल्क  were  अनुमत  as of that year in the following  देशों  : Australia , Brazil ,  कनाडा   ,   the  Dominican Republic  ,   फ़्रांस   ,   यूनानियों   ,  Ireland  ,   जापानी  , New Zealand , the United Kingdom  और  the United States .
They  हैं  also  अनुमत  in personal  चोट  actions  in  Lithuania .
Recently , they have been  अनुमत  in Belgium as  खूब  .
a  Convocation  (  Latin 'calling together  '  , translating  the   यूनानी   ecclesia  ) is a group of people formally assembled  लिये  a special purpose  .
बेटे   of   अराजकता  is a television drama series created by Kurt Sutter about  the   जीवनदान  of a close-knit  गैरकानूनी   मोटरसाइकिल  club operating in Charming  ,  a  fictional   कस्बा  in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  's  सेंट्रल   घाटी   .
The show centers on protagonist  जैक्सन  `` Jax ''  teller  ( Charlie  hunnam   )  , the then-vice  अध्यक्ष   of  the  क्लबों  , who  begins  questioning the  क्लबों  and himself  .
Sons  of   अराजकता  premiered  on  September 3 , 2008 , on cable  संजाल   fx   .
The third season of the series attracted an average of 4.9  लाख  viewers  प्रति  week , making  it  FX 's highest  रेटेड   श्रेणी  ever , surpassing  fx   's  other hits The  शील्ड  ,  nip/tuck  ,  और   बचाव   me   .
On February  3   ,   2012  , Sons  of  Anarchy  थी  renewed for  दो   अतिरिक्त  seasons , a fifth and a  छठे  .
those   शामिल  in the production of the  श्रेणी   imply  that a  सातवाँ   और  final season is creator Kurt Sutter 's plan .
the  Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes  (   ;   vötn  = `` waters ''  ,  singular : )  और  the volcano of the  वही  name are in  south-east   आइसलैंड  .
They  हैं   in  the highlands of Iceland at  the  northwestern side of the Vatnajökull ice-cap .
The lakes  हैं   at   ,  at an elevation  of   .
Beneath  the  lakes is  the  magma chamber of the  grímsvötn   ज्वालामुखी  .
Grímsvötn is  a   basaltic  volcano  जिससे  has the highest eruption frequency of all the volcanoes in Iceland and has  a  southwest-northeast-trending fissure system .
The massive  climate-impacting  Laki  फिशर   फटना  of  1783–1784  was a part of the same  फिशर   प्रणाली  .
Grímsvötn was  erupting   at  the same time as  laki   दौरान   1783  ,  लकिन  continued  to  erupt until 1785 .
Because  सबसे   of  the volcano lies  underneath   vatnajökull   ,  most of its eruptions  have   महरूम   subglacial  and the interaction  of  magma and meltwater  इससे  the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity .
On 21  may  2011 at 19:25  utc  , an  फटना   began  ,  साथ  high plumes accompanied by multiple earthquakes ,  resulting  in cancellation of 900 flights  in  Iceland , and  in   the  United Kingdom , Greenland ,  जर्मनी  ,  आयरलैंड   और   नार्वे  on 22–25 May .
Until  25  May the eruption  स्केल  had been larger  than   कि  of the 2010 eruption of  eyjafjallajökull  .
The  फटना  stopped at  02:40  UTC on 25 May 2011 ,  हालांकि  there  थी   कुछ  explosive activity from  the  tephra vents affecting only the area around the  crater  .
vetting   is  the process of performing a  पृष्ठभूमि  check on someone before offering  उन्हें   नियुक्ति   ,   डाक्टरेट  an award  ,  etc .
A prospective person or project may be vetted before making  a   भर्ती   निर्णय  .
In addition , in intelligence  महफ़िल   ,   एसेट  are vetted to determine their usefulness .
Former headquarters and current  कॉरपोरेट   कार्यालयों
Caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly  harrah  's  entertainment   इससे   1995  to 2010  )  is an American  पब्लिक   गेमिंग  corporation that owns and operates  over  50 casinos  ,  hotels , and  सात   गोल्फ़   पाठ्यक्रम  under several  ब्रांड्स  .
the  company  ,   आधारित   in  Paradise , Nevada , is the largest gaming company  in  the world , with annual revenues  of  $ 8.9  अरब  ( 2010 ) .
caesars  is a public company , with a joint venture of Apollo Global Management and  टेक्सास  Pacific Group ownig a  विशाल   portion   of  the  स्टेक  and Blackstone Group also  पकड़कर   a   significant  stake .
the   नाम   बदलें  from  ``   harrah   's  Entertainment Inc. '' to `` Caesars Entertainment  निगम  ''  थी  made official on November 23 ,  2010  .
Harrah 's remains a key brand in  the   कम्पनी  .
On  नवम्बर  5  ,  2010 , Harrah 's  घोषित   an   आरंभिक  public offering of 31,250,000  साझा   लकिन  retracted this  offering   on   नवम्बर   19  .
A Permanent Resident  in   कनाडा  is a person who is not a  कनाडाई  citizen but  जो   रै  been  granted  permission to  सजीव  and  कार्य  in  कनाडा  without any time limit on his  or   उसके   रहो   .
a  permanent resident must  सजीव   in  Canada  लिये  two years out of every five or risk  खोने   कि   औकात   .
a   स्थाई   निवासी   holds  many  of  the  वही  rights and  जिम्मेदारियों  as a  कनाडाई   नागरिक   ,  among others the right to work for  कोई   एंटरप्राइज़  as well as for  the   संघीय   or  provincial  सरकारी  ( under  प्रतिबंध  of access rights to certain  regulated  professions ) .
The  प्रमुख   मतभेद  are that residents can not  :
vote in  चुनावों  in Canada ;
run  लिये  elected office  ;
थाम  Canadian passports ;
In addition  ,  they  may  be  अनुमत  to join  कनाडा  's armed  शक्तियां   if   the   नेशनल   ब्याज  would  नहीं   be  prejudiced .
Permanent residents also  रिस्क   प्रत्यर्पण  for  गंभीर  crimes committed while resident  in  Canada .
Permanent residents may apply  लिये  Canadian citizenship after three years  in  Canada  ;  however this is  नहीं  mandatory .
Erica  केन  is  a  fictional character from the American ABC Daytime soap opera  सब  My Children .
The character was portrayed  by  actress Susan Lucci from her debut  on  January  16  ,  1970  until the  पिछला  broadcast television episode  aired   on  September  23   ,  2011  .
on  February 11 , 2013 , it was announced that Lucci will guest-star on the  prospect   पार्क  's continuation of  सब  My Children .
In the U.S. , Erica  is  considered to be the  सबसे  popular  अक्षर  in soap opera  इतिहास  .
regarding   the  North-American market , TV Guide calls her `` unequivocally the  सबसे   प्रसिद्ध  soap opera character in the history  of  daytime TV  ''   ,  and included her in their  2013   सूची  of The  60  Nastiest  खलनायक   of  All  समय   .
A  आलेख  of the US CPI  इससे  1913 to 2006 (  in   ब्लू   )  , and its percent  सालाना  change ( in red  )
a   उपभोक्ता  price  अनुक्रमणिका   (  CPI ) measures  परिवर्तन   in  the price level of  a  market basket of consumer goods and services purchased by households .
The CPI in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  is defined by the Bureau of  मजदूर  Statistics as `` a measure  of  the average change over time in the  कीमतें  paid  by  urban consumers  लिये  a  मार्केट  basket of consumer  goods  and services . ''
The CPI  is  a  सांख्यिकीय  estimate  constructed   using   the  prices of  a  sample  of   प्रतिनिधि  items whose prices are  एकत्रित  periodically .
Sub-indexes  और  sub-sub-indexes are computed for different categories  और  sub-categories of goods and services  ,  being  संयुक्त  to produce the overall index  साथ   weights  reflecting  उनके  shares in the total of the consumer expenditures covered  by  the index .
It is one of several  दाम  indices calculated  by   सबसे  national statistical  एजेंसियों  .
The  सालाना  percentage change in a  cpi  is used as a measure of inflation .
a  CPI  can  be used to  अनुक्रमणिका  (  i.e.  , adjust for the effect of inflation  )   the  real  मान   of  wages , salaries , pensions  ,   लिये  regulating prices and for deflating monetary magnitudes  to  show changes in  रियल  values .
In most  देशों   ,  the CPI  is  , along with  the   जनसांख्यिकी   जनसांख्यिकी  and the  यूएसए  National Income and  उत्पाद  Accounts  ,   एक  of the most closely  देखी  national  आर्थिक   आंकडे   .
Knocking on wood , or  to   टच   लकडी  , refers  to  the apotropaic tradition in western folklore of  वस्तुतः  touching/knocking on wood , or merely stating that you  हैं  doing  or   intend   वही  , in order  to  avoid `` tempting fate `` after  बनाना  a favourable  अवलोकन   ,  a boast , or declaration concerning one 's own death .
Rocker arm
Generally referred to  भीतर  the context of the internal combustion engine  of  automotive , marine , motorcycle and  प्रत्यागमनी  aviation engines ,  the  rocker arm is  an  oscillating lever that conveys  रेडियल   गति  from  the  cam  पालि  into linear movement at the poppet valve to  खोलें   it  .
One end is  उठाया  and lowered by a  घूर्णन  lobe of the camshaft ( either directly or via a tappet  (  lifter  )  and pushrod )  जबकि   the  other  समाप्त  acts  on  the valve stem .
When the camshaft lobe raises the outside  of  the arm , the inside  दबाता  down  on  the valve stem , opening  the  valve  .
When the  बाहर  of the arm  is  permitted to return due to  the   camshafts   रोटेशन  , the inside rises , allowing the valve spring to close the  वाल्व  .
The drive  कैम  is driven by the  camshaft  .
This pushes the rocker arm  up   और  down about  the   trunnion  pin  or  rocker shaft .
Friction may be reduced  at   the  point of contact with the valve stem by a  रोलर  cam follower .
A similar arrangement transfers the motion via  another  roller cam follower to a second rocker arm .
This  घुमाता  about  the   रॉकर  shaft  ,   और   हस्तांतरण   the  motion  via   a  tappet to the  poppet  valve  .
In this  मामला  this opens the intake valve  to  the cylinder head  .
the  effective  leverage  of the arm ( and  यूँ   the  force it  can  exert on the valve  स्टेम  ) is determined by  the  rocker arm ratio , the  अनुपात  of the distance  इससे   the  rocker  भुजा  's center of rotation to  the  tip divided by the distance  इससे  the center of rotation to  the   पाइंट   acted  on by the camshaft or pushrod .
Current automotive  डिज़ाइन  favors rocker arm  ratios  of  परिचय  1.5:1  to  1.8:1 .
However , in the past  छोटी  positive ratios  (   the   वाल्व  lift is  वृहद  than the cam  लिफ्ट   )   और   भी  negative ratios  (   वाल्व  lift smaller than the  कैम  lift  )  have been used  .
Many pre-WW2 engines use 1:1 (  न्यूट्रल   )  ratios .
For  car  engines the rocker  बाहें   हैं  generally  स्टील  stampings  ,   providing  a  उचित  balance  of  strength ,  वज़न  and economical cost .
क्युकी   the  rocker arms are  ,  in part , reciprocating weight  ,  excessive mass especially  at  the lever ends  हद  the engine 's ability to  पहुँचें   ऊँची   ऑपरेटिंग  speeds  .
``  the   रात्रि  the  लाइट्स   गई  Out in  जॉर्जिया  '' is a  दक्षिणी  Gothic  सोंग  written  by  songwriter Bobby Russell  और  performed in 1972 by  उसके   then-wife  Vicki Lawrence  .
Reba  mcentire  later  covered  it  in   1991  .
अंकित  in late October 1972 in United/Western Studios on  सूर्यास्त  in Hollywood and released less than two weeks later in  नवम्बर  1972 , the  सोंग   centers  around  the  older brother of the  narrator   ,   falsely  convicted of  और  executed for a  हत्या   ,  which the  narrator  herself  रै  committed .
In  डाक  mail , a return  पता  is an explicit  समावेश   of  the  पता   of  the person sending  the   संदेश  .
It provides  the  recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries )  साथ  a means to  determine  how to  respond  to the  प्रेषक   of  the  संदेश   if  needed .
The return address need not include a  प्रेषक   's   नाम   ,   लकिन  should  शामिल  address  or  P.O  .  box  विवरण  in the same  रास्ता  as the delivery address should  .
In some countries , the return address is conventionally located in the upper left hand corner of the  लिफाफा  ,  कार्ड  , or label .
in  the United  किंगडम  , the return address  is  usually placed on  the  reverse of the envelope  ,  near the top  .
Businesses often use envelopes  preprinted  with  a  return address .
Many individuals have  चादरें  of  चिपकने  labels  preprinted  with their home address  to   affix  to their  पत्राचार  .
धर्मार्थ  sometimes  शामिल   ऐसे  sheets in  mailshots  .
Rolls of Return  पता  Labels can be  खरीदा   इससे  companies that  बेचें  personalized labels to  provide  individuals an easy  रास्ता  to peel and stick  वापसी  address labels to their envelopes .
The return address is not  जरूरी  on postal  मेल  .
However , lack of a  वापसी   पता  prevents the postal service from being able  to   वापसी   the  item if it proves undeliverable ; such as  इससे  damage ,  postage  due , or invalid  गंतव्य  .
ऐसे  mail may thus become dead  अक्षर  mail  .
Should  the   वापसी   पता  be  of   a  different state or country  ,  the mail  may   be   routed   through  that location for ease of  वापसी  .
A nerve guidance  conduit  ( also  referred  to as an  कृत्रिम  nerve conduit  or  artificial nerve graft  ,  as opposed to an autograft  )  is an artificial  अर्थात्  of  guiding   axonal  regrowth to facilitate  तंत्रिका  regeneration and  is   एक  of  अनेक   नैदानिक  treatments  लिये  nerve  चोटों   .
When direct suturing of the two stumps of a  severed  nerve can not be accomplished  बगैर  tension ,  the   मानक  clinical treatment  लिये   परिधीय  nerve injuries is  autologous  nerve grafting  .
due   to  the  सीमित  availability of donor tissue and  कार्यात्मक  recovery  in   autologous  nerve grafting ,  neural  tissue engineering research  रै   केन्द्रित  on the development  of  bioartificial nerve guidance conduits as an alternative treatment , especially for large  दोषों   .
Similar  तकनीकों  are also being explored for nerve  मरम्मत  in  the   स्पाइनल   cord   लकिन  nerve regeneration in the  सेंट्रल   बेचैन  system poses a  वृहद   चुनौती  because its  axons  do not regenerate appreciably  in   उनके   देशी  environment  .
the  creation  of  artificial conduits  is   भी  known as  entubulation  because the nerve ends  और  intervening  गैप  are enclosed within a tube composed of biological or synthetic materials .
Whether  the  conduit is in  the   रूप  of a  biologic   ट्यूब  , synthetic  ट्यूब  or  tissue-engineered  conduit  ,   it   चाहिए  facilitate neurotropic  और  neurotrophic communication between the  proximal  and distal ends  of   the  nerve gap  ,   ब्लाक   बाह्य  inhibitory factors , and provide a  शारीरिक  guidance for axonal regrowth .
The  सबसे   मौलिक  objective of  a  nerve guidance  conduit   is   to   combine  physical , chemical , and biological cues under conditions  कि   होगा  foster tissue formation  .
सामग्री  that have been  प्रयुक्त   to  make biologic  tubes  include  रक्त  vessels and skeletal muscles , while nonabsorbable  और   bioabsorbable  synthetic tubes have been  बना  from silicone and polyglycolide respectively .
Tissue-engineered  तंत्रिका  guidance  conduits   हैं  a  संयोजन  of many  तत्व  : scaffold structure  ,   scaffold  material  ,  cellular  therapies   ,   neurotrophic  factors and biomimetic materials  .
The choice of which physical  ,   रासायनिक  and biological  cues   to  use is  आधारित   on  the  गुण  of the  तंत्रिका   पर्यावरण   ,  which is critical  in   बनाना  the most desirable  पर्यावरण  for  axon   regeneration  .
the  factors that control material  चयन  include  biocompatibility  , biodegradability  ,  mechanical integrity ,  controllability  during  तंत्रिका  growth ,  implantation  and sterilization .
Hardcore Pawn  is  an American  वास्तविकता   टेलीविज़न  series  उत्पादित   by   rdf  USA ( later  zodiak   यूएसए  ) and Richard Dominick Productions  लिये  truTV about  the   day-to-day  operations of American Jewelry and  ऋण  ,  a   family-owned  pawn  दूकान  located at 20450  greenfield  Road , between 8 Mile  सड़क  and the  जॉन  C. Lodge Freeway  in   डेट्रॉयट  ,  मिशिगन  .
the   श्रेणी   premiered  on  अगस्त  16 , 2010 ,  delivering  two  लाख   दर्शक   ,  setting a  रिकार्ड  as truTV  's  most-watched series premiere ever  .
Amoxicillin BP
Amoxicillin (  इन  )  ,   formerly  amoxycillin (  बैन  ) ,  और   abbreviated  amox  ,  is  a  moderate-spectrum , bacteriolytic ,  β-lactam  antibiotic used to  दावत   बैक्टीरियल  infections caused by susceptible microorganisms .
it  is usually the drug of choice  भीतर  the class because it is better absorbed  ,   following  oral administration , than other  β-lactam  antibiotics .
Amoxicillin  is  one  of  the  सबसे  common antibiotics prescribed for children  .
the  drug became available  in   1972  .
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing bacteria , which are  resistant  to  a  broad spectrum of β-lactam antibiotics , such  as   पेनिसिलीन  .
लिये  this reason , it is often combined  साथ  clavulanic acid , a β-lactamase  inhibitor  .
This  increases  effectiveness by reducing  इसके  susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance .
lyndon   baines  Johnson ( August 27 ,  1908   –  January 22 , 1973 ) , often  referred  to as LBJ  ,  was the  36th  President of  the   संयुक्त  States  (   1963–1969   )   ,  a  स्थिति  he  assumed  after his service as  the  37th  वाइस   अध्यक्ष   of  the  संयुक्त  States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He  is   एक  of only  चार  people who served in all four elected federal offices of the United States : Representative  ,  Senator , Vice  अध्यक्ष   ,  and  अध्यक्ष  .
Johnson  ,  a Democrat from  टेक्सास  , served as  a  United  राज्य  Representative from  1937–1949  and as a  सीनेटर  from 1949–1961  ,  including six years  as   संयुक्त  States Senate Majority  नेता  , two  as  Senate  अल्पसंख्यक  Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
After  campaigning  unsuccessfully  लिये   the  Democratic nomination in 1960  ,  Johnson was asked  by  John F.  कैनेडी  to  be  his running mate  लिये  the 1960 presidential  चुनाव   .
Johnson  succeeded  to the  प्रेसिडेंसी  following the  हत्या  of John F.  कैनेडी  on November 22 , 1963 , completed Kennedy  's  term and was elected  अध्यक्ष  in his own right ,  जीतना  by  a  large  हाशिया   over  Barry Goldwater in the  1964  election  .
Johnson was  greatly   समर्थित  by the Democratic  पार्टी  and as President  ,  he was responsible for designing the  ``  Great  समाज   ``   विधान  that  शामिल   कानून  that upheld civil rights  ,   पब्लिक  broadcasting , Medicare , Medicaid  ,  environmental protection  ,  aid  to   शिक्षा  , and his  ``  War  on  Poverty . ''
Johnson  थी   प्रसिद्ध   लिये  his  domineering   व्यक्तित्व   और   the  `` Johnson  उपचार  ,  ''  his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance  विधान  .
Meanwhile , Johnson  escalated  American involvement in  the   वियतनाम   युद्ध   ,  from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000  कॉम्बैट  troops  in  early 1968 , as American casualties  soared  and  the   सलाम   प्रक्रम  bogged down .
The involvement  stimulated   a  large angry  antiwar  movement based  विशेषकर  on university campuses  in  the  u.S.  and abroad .
Summer  दंगे  broke  आउट   in  most  प्रमुख  cities after 1965 , and crime rates soared , as his opponents  उठाया  demands for `` law and order '' policies .
the  Democratic Party split  in  multiple feuding factions , and  बाद  Johnson did poorly  in  the 1968 New Hampshire primary , he  ended  his bid for reelection .
Republican  रिचर्ड  Nixon was elected  to   सफल  him .
इतिहासकारों  argue  कि  Johnson  's  presidency marked the peak  of  modern  उदारतावाद   in   the  United States  बाद   the   नई  Deal  era  .
Johnson is ranked favorably by some historians  क्युकी  of his  घरेलू  policies .
The Big Bang  सिद्धान्त  cast at  कॉमिक   कॉन  2009 , from  बाएँ   :   कुणाल  Nayyar , Simon  helberg  , Kaley Cuoco , Jim Parsons  ,   और   जॉनी  Galecki
The American sitcom The Big  बंग   सिद्धान्त  ,  निर्मित   और  executive produced by Chuck Lorre  और   विधेयक   prady  , premiered on CBS  on  September 24 ,  2007  .
the  show  centers  on five  वर्ण   :  roommates Sheldon Cooper and  लियोनार्ड   hofstadter  ,  दो  Caltech physicists  ;   पैनी  , a  वेट्रेस   और  aspiring actress who lives across the  हॉल  ;  और   लियोनार्ड  and  शेल्डन  's friends and co-workers aerospace  इंजीनियर   हावर्ड  Wolowitz  ,  and astrophysicist  राजेश   koothrappali  .
Over time , several supporting characters have  महरूम   प्रचारित  to  अभिनीत  roles :  लेस्ली  Winkle ( season 1 recurring  ;  season 2 regular ; season 3  अतिथि  ) , a  physicist  colleague , and , at different times  ,   a  lover  of  both Leonard  और  Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season  4-present   नियमित   )  , a microbiologist  ,  Howard 's fiancée  और  subsequent wife ,  और  former part-time  वेट्रेस  alongside Penny  ;  neuroscientist  एमी   farrah  Fowler ( season 3  अतिथि  ; season 4 recurring  ;  season 4-present regular ) , who joins  the   समूह  after  होने   matched  to Sheldon on a dating  जालस्थल  ; and comic  किताब  store-owner , Stuart  खिलते  ( seasons  2–5  recurring  ;  season 6-present regular ) , who replaces Howard as Raj  's   बेहतरीन  friend when Howard  is  in space  .
The show  भी  features numerous supporting characters  ,  each of whom  plays  a prominent role  in  a small  समूह  of  एपीसोड  .
the  American Civil  युद्ध   (  ACW )  ,   भी   ज्ञात  as the War  between  the States or simply the  सिविल  War  (  see naming ) , was a civil war  लड़ा   इससे   1861   to  1865 between the United States ( the `` Union ''  or  the ``  उत्तर  '' )  और  several Southern slave states  कि  declared  उनके   secession  and formed the  confederate   राज्य  of  अमेरिका  ( the `` Confederacy ''  or   the  `` South '' )  .
The  युद्ध  had  इसके   उत्पत्ति   in   the  issue of slavery ,  विशेषकर  the extension of  गुलामी  into the western  territories   .
Foreign powers did not intervene .
After  चार   सालो   of  bloody  कॉम्बैट  that left  over  600,000 soldiers  मुर्दे  and  नष्ट  much  of  the South 's infrastructure ,  the  Confederacy  collapsed   ,  slavery was  abolished  , and  the  difficult  पुनर्निर्माण  process of restoring  नेशनल   एकता  and guaranteeing rights to the  freed  slaves began .
In the  1860  presidential election  ,  Republicans , led by  अब्राहम  Lincoln , opposed  expanding  slavery  into  United States '  territories  .
Lincoln  जीती  , but before  उसके  inauguration on March  4  ,  1861  ,  सात   cotton-based  slave  राज्य  formed the  confederacy  .
Outgoing Democratic  अध्यक्ष   जेम्स   बुकानन  and  the  incoming Republicans  अस्वीकृत  secession as  illegal  .
lincoln  's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states  जारी   to  reject calls for secession .
Confederate  शक्तियां   जब्त  numerous federal forts  भीतर  territory claimed  by  the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference  विफल   to   ढूँढें   a  compromise  ,  and both  पहलू  prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed  कि  European  देशों  were so dependent on  ``  King  कपास   ``  that  वे  would  intervene  ;  none   किया  and none  पहचाना   the  new Confederate  राज्य  of  अमेरिका  .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861  ,   जब  Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops  in  South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each  राज्य  to  provide   सैनिकों  to retake the  फोर्ट  ; consequently , four more slave  राज्य  joined the Confederacy ,  bringing  their total to  ग्यारह   .
The Union soon controlled the  किनारा   राज्य  and  स्थापित  a naval  नाकेबंदी  that crippled the southern economy .
the  Eastern Theater  थी  inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate  अभियान  into Maryland (  a  Union state ) ended with  confederate  retreat at  the  Battle  of  Antietam ,  dissuading   अंग्रेजों  intervention .
Lincoln issued the  emancipation  Proclamation , which made ending slavery a  युद्ध  goal  .
To the west , by summer  1862   the  Union destroyed the Confederate river navy ,  तब   much   of   उनके   पश्चिमी  armies , and  the  Union  at  Vicksburg split the Confederacy  in  two at the Mississippi River  .
In 1863 , Robert  E.  Lee  's   confederate  incursion north ended at the Battle of  gettysburg  .
Western  सफलताओं   led  to Ulysses S. Grant command of all  संघ  armies in  1864  .
in  the Western Theater , William T. Sherman  drove  east to capture Atlanta  और  marched  to  the  समुद्र  , destroying  confederate  infrastructure along  the   रास्ता   .
the  Union marshaled the resources  और  manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions ,  और  could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland  अभियान  towards  रिचमंड  , the  confederate  capital .
The defending  confederate  army failed , leading to Lee  's   आत्मसमर्पण  to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9 ,  1865  .
The American Civil  युद्ध  was  एक  of the earliest  सच्चा  industrial wars  .
Railroads ,  the  telegraph , steamships ,  और  mass-produced weapons were employed  extensively   .
the   mobilization  of  civilian  factories  ,  mines , shipyards ,  बैंको   ,   परिवहन   और   खाना  supplies  सब  foreshadowed World War I .
It  remains   the  deadliest war in American  इतिहास  , resulting in the  मौतों  of  an  estimated  750,000  soldiers and an undetermined  क्रमांक  of  civilian   हताहत  .
Historian John  huddleston  estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern  males  20–45 years  बूढ़ा  , and 30 percent of all  दक्षिणी   श्वेत  males aged 18–40 .
Human evolution refers to the evolutionary process  अग्रणी   up  to  the  appearance of modern  इंसानो   .
While  it  began with  the  last  आम  ancestor  of  all life , the topic usually  कवर   तभी   the  evolutionary  इतिहास  of primates ,  in   particular   the   genus  Homo , and the emergence  of   होमो  sapiens as a  पृथक  species of hominids  (   or  ``  ग्रेट  apes ''  )   .
the  study of human  एवोल्यूशन  involves many scientific disciplines  ,  including physical  मानवशास्त्र  , primatology , archaeology  ,   भाषाविज्ञान  , evolutionary psychology  ,  embryology and genetics .
According to genetic  अध्ययन   ,   primates  diverged  इससे  other mammals about in  the  Late Cretaceous  काल  , and  the  earliest  जीवाश्मों  appear in the Paleocene , around .
The family Hominidae diverged from  the  Hylobatidae (  गिबन  ) family 15-20 million years  पहले   ,  and  around   ,  the Ponginae (  orangutans  )  ,   diverged  from the  मानवनुमा   परिवार  .
bipedalism  is the basic adaption of the Hominin  लकीर   ,  and  the   earliest  bipedal Hominin is considered to  be  either  sahelanthropus  or Orrorin , with  ardipithecus  , a  पूरा  bipedal  ,   coming  somewhat later  .
The  गोरिल्ला  and chimpanzee diverged around the  वही  time , about 4-6 million years ago , and  either   sahelanthropus  or  orrorin   may   be   हमारी  last shared ancestor with  उन्हें   .
The  जल्दी  bipedals eventually evolved into  the  australopithecines and later the genus Homo .
The earliest documented members  of  the genus Homo  हैं  Homo habilis which evolved around  ;  the earliest species for which  वहीँ  is  धनात्मक  evidence of use of stone  टूल्स  .
The brains of  ये   जल्दी  hominins were  परिचय  the same size as  कि  of a  चिंपैंजी  .
During  the  next million  सालो   a  process of encephalization  began  , and with the arrival  of  Homo  इरेक्टस  in  the   चट्टान   रिकार्ड   ,   cranial  capacity  था   doubled  to 850  cm3  .
Homo erectus and Homo  ergaster   यहूद  the  पहला   of  the hominina  to  leave  अफ़्रीकी  , and these species  स्प्रेड  through Africa , Asia ,  और   यूरोपीय  between .
It is believed  कि  these species were the first to use fire and complex  टूल्स  .
According to the  हाल  African  ancestry   सिद्धान्त  ,  आधुनिक   इंसानो  evolved in Africa  संभवतः  from Homo heidelbergensis , Homo rhodesiensis  or   होमो  antecessor and  migrated  out of the  महाद्वीप  some 50,000 to 100,000 years  पहले  , replacing local populations of Homo erectus ,  होमो  denisova , Homo floresiensis  और  Homo neanderthalensis .
Archaic  होमो  sapiens  ,   the  forerunner  of  anatomically modern humans ,  विकसित   between  400,000  और   250,000  years ago .
हाल   डीएनए  evidence suggests that several haplotypes of Neanderthal origin  हैं  present among  सब  non-African  populations  , and Neanderthals and other hominids  ,  such as  denisova   hominin  may have contributed up to 6 % of  उनके  genome to present-day humans.  <   संदर्भ  name=  ''  10.1126/science.1209202  ''  > Anatomically modern  इंसानो  evolved from archaic  होमो  sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic  ,   परिचय   200,000  years  पहले  .
the  transition to  behavioral  modernity with  the   विकास  of symbolic culture  ,  language , and specialized lithic technology  happened   around  50,000 years  पहले   according  to many  विज्ञानियों  although some  सुझाएँ   a  gradual change in behavior  over  a longer time  स्पैन  .
Lisa Cuddy ,  m.d   .   ,  is a  fictional   अक्षर   on  the Fox network medical  नाटक  House .
She is portrayed by Lisa Edelstein  .
Cuddy was the Dean of  आयुर्विज्ञान  and hospital  व्यवस्थापक  of  the  fictional Princeton-Plainsboro  शिक्षण  Hospital in  नई  Jersey .
वो  also becomes  हाउस   's  love interest through the years  to  start a relationship with him in season seven .
Cuddy quit her job  बाद  the events of season  सात   's  finale ``  चलती  On  ``  .
Track  और  field is  a   खेल  comprising  विभिन्न  competitive athletic contests based  on   कार्यशील   ,   कूद  , and throwing .
The  नाम   of   the  sport derives from  the  competition  स्थान  : a  स्टेडियम  with an oval running track  around  a grass  फ़ील्ड   .
The  फेंकना  and  कूद   कार्यक्रम  generally take  प्लेस  in the central  enclosed  area  .
Track and  फ़ील्ड   जलप्रपात   अंतर्गत  the  छतरियाँ  sport of athletics , which also includes road running  ,   क्रॉस  country running  ,  and  रेस  walking .
The  दो  most prestigious international  track  and field competitions  हैं  held  अंतर्गत  the banner  of   एथलेटिक्स   :  the athletics  प्रतियोगिता  at the Olympic Games and the IAAF  संसार   championships  in Athletics .
The International  संघ  of Athletics  federations  is  the  international governing  देह  for track and field  .
Track  और  field  कार्यक्रम  are generally individual sports  साथ   एथलीट  challenging each other  to  decide a single victor .
The racing events  हैं  won  by  the athlete with the fastest time  ,  while the jumping  और  throwing  कार्यक्रम  are won  by   the  athlete who has achieved the greatest distance or height in the contest  .
the  running events are categorised as  sprints  , middle and long-distance  कार्यक्रम  , relays , and  hurdling   .
Regular jumping events  शामिल  long  जम्प  ,  ट्रिपल  jump ,  ऊँची  jump  और  pole vault ,  जबकि   the  most common throwing  कार्यक्रम  are shot put , javelin  ,  discus and hammer .
There are  भी   ``  combined events '' ,  ऐसे  as heptathlon and decathlon ,  in  which athletes compete in a number of  the  above events  .
रिकॉर्ड  are kept  of  the best performances  in  specific events  ,  at  संसार   और  national levels ,  सही   bas  to a  निजी   स्तर  .
However , if  एथलीट  are deemed  to  have violated the event 's rules or  regulations   ,  they  हैं  disqualified  इससे  the competition and their marks are erased .
In North America , the term track  और   फ़ील्ड  may  be  used to  refer   to  athletics  in  general , rather  than  specifically  track  and field events .
the   गल्फ   युद्ध  ( 2  अगस्त  1990  –  28 February 1991 ) , codenamed  आपरेशन  Desert Storm  (  17  जनवरी  1991 – 28 February  1991  ) was a war waged by a  u.n.-authorized  Coalition force from  34  nations led by  the   संयुक्त  States , against Iraq in  जवाब  to Iraq  's  invasion and annexation  of   कुवैत  .
The war is  भी   ज्ञात  under other names  ,   ऐसे   as  the Persian  गल्फ   युद्ध   ,   पहला  Gulf War , Gulf  युद्ध  I  ,  or the First  इराकी   युद्ध  , before the  पद   ``  Iraq  युद्ध   ''  became identified instead with the  2003  Iraq  युद्ध  ( also referred to in  the   u.S.  as `` Operation Iraqi  स्वतंत्रता  '' ) .
Kuwait 's  आक्रमण   by  Iraqi  सैनिकों  that began 2 August 1990  थी   मिले   साथ   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  condemnation , and brought immediate economic sanctions against Iraq by members  of  the  u.N.  Security  परिषद   .
U.S. President  जार्ज  H. W. Bush deployed U.S.  शक्तियां   into  Saudi  अरब  ,  और   urged   अन्य   देशों  to send their own forces  to   the  scene .
an  array of nations joined  the  Coalition .
The great majority of the  गठबन्धन   's  military forces were from the  u.S.  , with Saudi Arabia , the United Kingdom and Egypt as  अग्रणी   योगदानकर्ता  ,  in  that order .
सऊदी  Arabia  सशुल्क  around  us   $   36   अरब  of the US $ 60 billion cost .
The war  थी  marked by  the  beginning of live news  on   the  front lines  of   the  fight , with the primacy  of  the U.S. network  सीएनएन  .
The war has also earned the nickname Video  खेल   युद्ध  after  the  daily broadcast images on board  the   u.S.  bombers during Operation Desert Storm  .
the  initial conflict to expel Iraqi  सैनिकों  from  कुवैत   began  with an  aerial   बमबारी  on  17  January 1991 .
This  थी  followed by  a  ground  उत्पीड़न  on 24  फ़रवरी  .
This was  a   निर्णायक  victory for the  गठबन्धन  forces ,  जो  liberated  कुवैत  and advanced into Iraqi  territory  .
The Coalition  ceased  their advance  ,   और  declared a cease-fire 100 hours after the ground campaign started .
Aerial  और  ground  कॉम्बैट  was  confined  to Iraq  ,  Kuwait  ,  and  क्षेत्रों  on Saudi Arabia  's  border  .
Iraq launched Scud missiles against Coalition military targets in Saudi Arabia and against Israel .
the   निकल  , in  अमरीकी  usage , is a five-  cent  coin issued by the United States Mint .
Composed of 75 % copper and 25 % nickel , the  टुकड़ा  has been struck since 1866 .
the   चांदी  half dime , equal  to  five cents  ,  had been issued  चूंकि  the 1790s  .
the  American Civil  युद्ध  caused economic hardship , driving gold and silver  इससे   परिसंचरण  ; in response , in place of low-value coins , the government at first  जारी  paper currency .
in  1865 , Congress abolished  the  five-cent fractional  करेंसी  note after  स्पेंसर  M.  क्लार्क  , head  of  the Currency  ब्यूरो  ( today the  ब्यूरो  of Engraving and  मुद्रण  )  ,  placed his own portrait on  the   denomination  .
After successful  परिचय  of  two-cent  and three-cent  टुकड़े  , without precious metal , Congress also authorized  a  five-cent piece consisting of base  मेटल  ; the Mint began  striking  this version in  1866  .
the  initial  डिज़ाइन   of   the  Shield nickel  थी  struck until 1883 ,  तब  replaced by the Liberty Head nickel .
the   भैंस  nickel  थी  introduced in 1913 as part of a  ड्राइव   to  increase the beauty of American coinage ; in  1938   ,  the Jefferson  निकल  followed  .
in  2004 and  2005  , special designs  in  honor of the  bicentennial   of  the  लुईस  and  क्लार्क  Expedition  यहूद  issued .
in  2006  ,  the  मिंट   reverted  to using Jefferson nickel designer Felix  schlag  's original reverse ( or ``  tails  ''  पक्ष  ) , although a new obverse  ,  by Jamie Franki , was substituted  .
As  of  2013  ,   it   लागत  more than eleven cents to produce  a  nickel  ;   the  Mint is  exploring  the possibility  of   reducing  cost by using  कम  expensive  धातुओं  .
A  पोस्टर  with  पुष्प  or clusters  of  flowers produced by twelve species  of  flowering plants  इससे  different  परिवारों
A flower  ,  sometimes known as  a  bloom or blossom , is the reproductive structure  मिला  in  flowering  plants ( plants  of  the  प्रभाग  Magnoliophyta  ,  also called angiosperms ) .
The biological  फलन  of a flower  is  to effect reproduction , usually by providing a  यांत्रिकी   लिये  the  संघ  of sperm with eggs .
पुष्प   may  facilitate outcrossing  (  fusion of sperm  और  eggs from different  individuals   in  a population )  or  allow  selfing   (  fusion  of  sperm and egg  इससे   the  same flower )  .
Some flowers produce diaspores without fertilization ( parthenocarpy ) .
Flowers contain  sporangia  and are  the  site where  gametophytes  develop  .
Flowers give rise to fruit  और  seeds .
Many  पुष्प   have  evolved to be attractive to animals , so  as  to cause  उन्हें  to be vectors for  the  transfer of  पराग   .
In addition to facilitating the  जनन   of  flowering  पौधे  ,  पुष्प   have  long been admired and  प्रयुक्त  by humans  to  beautify their  पर्यावरण  , and also  as   वस्तुएँ  of romance ,  अनुष्ठान  , religion , medicine  और  as a  सोर्स  of  खाना  .
The McDonnell Douglas ( now  बोइंग   )  F-15 Eagle is  a  twin-engine ,  all-weather  tactical fighter  designed  by  mcdonnell  Douglas  to   लाभ  and  maintain   एयर  superiority  in  aerial combat .
It is  माना   among  the most successful modern fighters , with over 100 aerial combat victories with  no  losses  in  dogfights  .
Following  समीक्षाएँ  of proposals , the  संयुक्त  States Air Force selected McDonnell  डगलस  ' design in  1967   to  meet the service  's   need   लिये  a dedicated air superiority fighter  .
The Eagle  पहला  flew  in  July 1972 ,  और   डाला   सेवा   in   1976  .
Since  the  1970s  ,   the  Eagle has  महरूम   exported   to  Israel ,  जापानी   ,  Saudi Arabia  ,  and other  राष्ट्र  .
The F-15 was  originally  envisioned as a pure air  बड़प्पन  aircraft .
Its design included  a  secondary ground-attack capability that was largely unused  .
The design  proved   लचीली  enough  कि  an  all-weather   स्ट्राइक  derivative ,  the  F-15E  स्ट्राइक   त्रिभुज  , was later  विकसित  ,  और  entered service  in  1989 .
The F-15 Eagle is expected to be in service with the U.S.  एयर  Force  पास्ट  2025  .
Mimio is a  ब्रांड  name of a  लकीर  of technology products aimed  at  the education market .
the  primary products are  केन्द्रित  around computer whiteboard interactive teaching devices  .
MimioCapture devices  भी  allow  उपयोक्ता  to capture all of  the  ink strokes that  हैं   लिखा   on   the  whiteboard  .
When used in conjunction with a video  प्रोजेक्टर  it turns  the  ordinary  whiteboard   सतह  into a fully  इंटरैक्टिव   whiteboard   .
the   उत्पाद  line was originally designed  by  Virtual Ink  .
on   अक्तूबर  4  ,   2006  Newell Rubbermaid acquired the Mimio interactive  whiteboard   (   iwb  ) product line  .
Rahab of  जेरिको
Rahab  ,  ( ; ;  )   थी   ,   according  to  the   किताब   of   जोशुआ  ,  a  woman who lived in Jericho in the  promised  Land and assisted the  israelites  in capturing the  नगर  .
Nearly all  अंग्रेज़ी   अनुवाद  of Joshua describe her  as   a   बदचलन  or  वेश्या  .
The  संगठन  of American  राज्य  (  स्पेनी  : Organización de los  estados  Americanos  ,  Portuguese  :   organização   डॉस   estados  Americanos , French : Organisation  देस   états  américains ) , or  the   oas  , is a  क्षेत्रीय  international  संगठन  .
the  OAS was founded on 30 April 1948 ,  और  has its headquarters in Washington ,  d.C.   ,  United States  .
Its members  हैं  the 35 independent  राज्य  of the  americas  .
चूंकि   26   may  2005 , the Secretary General  of   oas   रै  been José Miguel Insulza  .
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo Colombo ;  स्पेनी  :  cristóbal  Colón ; Portuguese :  cristóvão  Colombo ; before  31  October  145120  May 1506 ) was an Italian explorer  ,  navigator , and colonizer , born in  the  Republic  of   जेनोआ  ,  in  what is today northwestern Italy .
Under the  auspices  of the  कैथोलिक  Monarchs of Spain , he  समाप्त  four voyages across the  अटलांटिक   समंदर  that led  to  general European awareness of the  अमरीकी  continents .
Those voyages , and  उसके  efforts to  स्थापित  permanent settlements  on  the  द्वीप  of  हिस्पानिओला  , initiated  the  Spanish colonization of the New World .
in  the context of  उभरते   पश्चिमी  imperialism  और   आर्थिक  competition between European  kingdoms  seeking  माल   through   the  establishment of trade routes and colonies , Columbus  's   सट्टे  proposal  ,  to reach the East Indies  by   sailing   westward   ,   आखिरकार  received the support of the Spanish crown ,  जिससे   देखी  in it a  वादा  ,  however  remote , of gaining the upper hand over rival powers  in  the contest for the lucrative spice trade  साथ  Asia  .
During his  पहला  voyage in 1492 , instead  of  reaching Japan as  he  had intended , Columbus  उतरा  in the Bahamas archipelago , at a locale  he  named San Salvador .
Over the course of  तीन   अधिक   voyages  , Columbus  visited  the  वृहद   और  Lesser Antilles , as well as  the  Caribbean coast  of  Venezuela  और  Central  अमेरिका  , claiming  उन्हें  for  the  Spanish Empire .
Though Columbus was  नहीं  the first  यूरोपीय  explorer  to  reach  the   americas  (  having   महरूम  preceded by the Norse expedition led by Leif  ericson  in the  11th  century ) , Columbus  's   voyages  led to the first lasting European contact with  the   americas  ,  inaugurating  a period of European exploration  ,  conquest , and colonization  कि  lasted  लिये   अनेक  centuries .
They had , therefore , an enormous impact  in  the  ऐतिहासिक  development  of  the modern Western world .
Columbus himself saw his accomplishments primarily in the  लाइट   of  the  spreading  of the Christian religion .
Never admitting  कि  he  था  reached a  महाद्वीप  previously unknown to  europeans  , rather than the East Indies he  था  set out for , Columbus called the inhabitants  of  the lands  he  visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians  ``   )  .
कोलंबस  's strained relationship with  the   स्पेनी   क्राउन  and its appointed  औपनिवेशिक  administrators in America  led   to  his  गिरफ़्तार  and dismissal as governor  of  the settlements on the  द्वीप  of Hispaniola in 1500  ,  and later to protracted  वाद  over the benefits  जिससे  Columbus  और  his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown .
करवाया  in Germany , the Boxer is  a  breed of stocky , medium-sized  ,   short-haired  dogs .
the  coat is  चिकना   और  tight-fitting ;  रंगों  are fawn or brindled , with  or  without white  markings  ,  जिससे  may  कवर   the  entire body .
Boxers  हैं  brachycephalic  (   वे   have  broad , short skulls )  ,  and have a square muzzle , mandibular prognathism  (  an underbite  )  , very strong jaws , and a  शक्तिशाली  bite ideal  लिये  hanging on  to  large prey .
The  boxer  was bred  इससे   the   बूढ़ा  English Bulldog  और  the now extinct Bullenbeisser ,  और  is  भाग   of   the  Molosser group  .
मुक्केबाज  were first exhibited in  a  dog  दिखाएँ  for St. Bernards in Munich in  1895  , the first  boxer  club  होने  founded the  अगला   साल  .
Based on 2012  अमरीकी  Kennel Club statistics , Boxers held steady as  the  seventh  सबसे  popular breed of  श्वान  in the United  राज्य  for the  तीसरा   लगातार  year  .
Serial ATA (  sata  ) is  a  computer bus interface that connects host  बस  adapters  to  mass  भंडार  devices  ऐसे  as  मुश्किल  disk drives and optical drives  .
Serial  ata   replaces  the  पुरानी  AT Attachment  मानक  ( ATA ; later  referred  to as Parallel ATA or PATA  )  , offering  अनेक  advantages over the  पुरानी  interface : reduced  केबल   आकार  and cost (  सात  conductors instead of 40 )  ,  native hot swapping , faster  आंकड़ा  transfer through  उच्चतर  signalling rates , and more efficient transfer through  an  ( optional ) I/O  queuing   प्रोटोकॉल   .
sata  host adapters and devices communicate  via  a high-speed serial cable over  दो  pairs of  conductors  .
In  कंट्रास्ट  , parallel  ata   (  the redesignation for the legacy  ata  specifications  )  used  a  16-bit wide data  बस   साथ  many additional  support  and control signals  ,   सब   ऑपरेटिंग  at  much  lower  आवृत्ति  .
To ensure  पिछड़ा   संगतता  with legacy ATA  तन्त्र   और  applications  ,  SATA uses the same basic ATA  और   atapi  command-set  as  legacy ATA  डिवाइस  .
SATA has replaced parallel  ata   in  consumer desktop and laptop computers , and  रै   largely  replaced PATA  in  new embedded applications  .
SATA 's market  share   in  the  डेस्कटॉप  PC market was 99 %  in   2008  .
PATA remains widely  प्रयुक्त   in  industrial  और  embedded applications that use CompactFlash storage , even  हालांकि   the  new  cfast  standard  is  based  on  SATA  .
सीरियल  ATA industry  संगतता  specifications originate from The  सीरियल   ata  International  संगठन  ( aka  .
sata-io  , serialata.org ) .
The SATA-IO  समूह  collaboratively creates  ,   समीक्षाएँ  , ratifies , and publishes the interoperability specifications , the test cases , and  plug-fests   .
As with many other  उद्योग   संगतता  standards , the  sata  content ownership is transferred to other  उद्योग  bodies  :  primarily  the  INCITS T13 subcommittee ATA ,  the   incits  T10 subcommittee ( SCSI ) ; a  subgroup  of T10  जिम्मेदार  for Serial Attached SCSI (  sas  )  .
The complete  specification   इससे  SATA-IO .
the  remainder of this  आलेख  will try to use the  शब्दावली   और  specifications of  sata-io  .
The history  of  the Internet began  साथ  the development  of  electronic  कंप्यूटर  in  the  1950s .
The  पब्लिक  was first introduced to the  अवधारणाओं  that would  सीसे   to  the  अंतरजाल  when a  संदेश   थी  sent  over   the   arpanet   इससे   कंप्यूटर  science  प्राध्यापक  Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory  at  University of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , Los Angeles  (  UCLA  )   ,  after  the  second piece  of  network equipment was installed at Stanford  शोध  Institute (  श्री   )  .
Packet  switched   संजाल  such as  arpanet  , Mark  i   at  NPL in the  uk  , CYCLADES ,  मेरिट  Network , Tymnet  ,   और   telenet   ,   यहूद  developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s  using  a variety of protocols .
The  arpanet   in   particular  led to the development of protocols for internetworking  ,  in which  अनेक   पृथक   संजाल  could  be  joined together into a network of networks  .
in  1982 , the Internet protocol suite  (  TCP/IP  )  was standardized , and  नतीजतन   ,  the concept of a world-wide  संजाल   of  interconnected TCP/IP  संजाल  , called the Internet ,  थी  introduced  .
Access  to  the ARPANET was expanded in 1981  जब  the  नेशनल  Science Foundation ( NSF  )  developed the Computer  विज्ञान  Network ( CSNET ) and again in  1986  when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in  the  United  राज्य  from  शोध  and  शिक्षा   संगठन  .
Commercial Internet service providers (  isps  )  began   to  emerge  in  the late 1980s and early 1990s .
the  ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990 .
The  अंतरजाल   थी  commercialized in  1995   जब  NSFNET was decommissioned , removing the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to  carry  commercial traffic .
Since the mid-1990s  ,  the  अंतरजाल  has  था  a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce ,  सहित  the  वृद्धि  of near-instant communication  by  electronic  मेल   ,  instant messaging , Voice over Internet Protocol  (   voip  ) `` phone  काल्स  '' , two-way interactive video calls , and  the   संसार   चौड़ी  Web  साथ  its discussion  forums   ,   ब्लॉग  , social networking , and online shopping  साइट  .
The research  और   शिक्षा  community  continues   to  develop  और  use advanced  संजाल   ऐसे   as  NSF 's very  ऊँची  speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS  )  ,  internet2  , and National  lambdarail  .
Increasing amounts  of  data  हैं  transmitted  at  higher  और  higher  speeds  over  रेशा  optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s ,  10-gbit/s   ,  or more .
the  Internet 's  कब्ज़ा  over the  वैश्विक  communication landscape was almost  तत्काल  in historical  शर्तें   :   it  only communicated 1  %  of  the   सूचना  flowing through two-way telecommunications  संजाल   in   the  year 1993 , already  51   %  by 2000 , and more than 97 %  of   the  telecommunicated information by 2007 .
Today  the   अंतरजाल  continues to  grow   ,  driven by  कभी   वृहद  amounts  of  online  सूचना  , commerce , entertainment , and social networking .
The Gift  is   the  second album by Scottish  सिंगर  Susan  बॉयल  , which was released on 8 November 2010 .
Boyle  hinted  that the album has a  1960s   महसूस   ``  because that was [ her ] era  ''  .
on  30  नवम्बर   2011   ,   the  album  प्राप्त  a nomination  in  54th Grammy  पुरस्कार  for Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album  .
``  This Is  बस  To  कह  '' ( 1934 ) is  a   प्रसिद्ध  imagist poem by William Carlos  विलियम्स   .
Professor  ऐल्बस  Percival Wulfric  ब्रायन   डम्बल्डोर  is  a   प्रमुख  character  और  protagonist of  J.   K.   रोलिंग   's  Harry Potter series .
लिये   सबसे   of   the  series ,  he  is  the  headmaster of  the  wizarding school Hogwarts .
as   भाग  of his backstory , it  is   नाज़िल  that he is the  संस्थापक  and  नेता  of  the  Order of the Phoenix , an  संगठन   समर्पित  to fighting  the  main antagonist  of  the  श्रेणी  , Lord Voldemort .
Dumbledore is portrayed by Richard Harris in the film adaptions  of  Harry  कुम्हार  and  the  Philosopher 's Stone  और  Harry Potter  और   the   कक्ष   of  Secrets  .
After  हैरिस  '  मौत   ,   माइकल  Gambon  portrayed  Dumbledore for all of the remaining films .
Rowling stated  वो   chose  the name Dumbledore  ,  which is an  जल्दी   आधुनिक  English word for ``  bumblebee   ``   ,   क्युकी   of  Dumbledore  's  love of  म्यूज़िक   :  she imagined  उसे  walking around `` humming to himself a lot '' .
Calcitonin ( also  ज्ञात  as thyrocalcitonin ) is a  32-amino   एसिड  linear  polypeptide   हार्मोन  that is produced in humans  primarily   by   the  parafollicular cells ( also known as C-cells ) of  the  thyroid , and in  अनेक   अन्य  animals  in  the ultimobranchial body .
It acts to reduce blood  कैल्सियम  ( Ca2+ ) ,  opposing  the effects  of   parathyroid  hormone (  pth  )  .
Calcitonin has  महरूम   मिला   in  fish , reptiles  ,  birds ,  और   स्तनधारियों  .
इसके  importance in  इंसानो  has  नहीं  been as well established as  इसके  importance in  अन्य  animals , as its function  is  usually not significant in the regulation  of   सामान्य  calcium homeostasis .
It belongs  to  calcitonin-like protein family .
A mousepad with a  padded   कलाई  rest .
A  mousepad  ( US ) or mouse mat  (   uk  ) is  a  surface  लिये  placing and moving a computer mouse  .
a  mousepad  enhances   the   उपयोगिता  of  the  mouse compared to  using  a  चूहा   सीधे  on a  तालिका   by  providing a surface to allow the  ट्रैकिंग   led   or  ball  (  in former  मॉडल  )  to  measure movement accurately and  बगैर  jitter .
Some  mousepads  increase ergonomics by providing a padded wrist  बाकी  .
The stadium  देखी   इससे  above in 1980
December 29 ,  2002  implosion
The Riverfront Stadium site  in  June ,  2006  .
This photo was taken from the western concourse of Great American Ball Park .
A small portion of the Riverfront  स्टेडियम   साईट  is now  occupied  by the Reds ' Hall of  कीर्ति  and  संग्रहालय  and Main Street ,  जिससे  was  विस्तारित   जब  the new  पार्क  was built .
the   सिनसिनाटी   bengals  ' Paul  भूरा  Stadium  is   in  the  अलहदा  .
Riverfront Stadium  (   1970–1995   )  , later  ज्ञात  as  cinergy  Field ( 1996–2002  )  ,  थी   the   घर  of  the  Cincinnati  लाल   नेशनल  League baseball  टोली  and  the  Cincinnati Bengals National  फ़ुटबॉल  League team .
Located  on  the Ohio River in downtown  सिनसिनाटी  ,  the  stadium was best  ज्ञात  as the home  of  `` The Big Red Machine `` ,  as   the  Reds were often  पुकारा  in  the  1970s .
निर्माण   began  on February  1  , 1968  ,  and  थी  completed  at   a   लागत  of less than $ 50  लाख   .
On  जून  30 ,  1970  ,  the   लाल  hosted the Atlanta Braves in their grand opening , with  हांक  Aaron  hitting  the  पहला   कभी  home  चलाएं  at Riverfront  .
Two weeks  बाद  on July 14  ,  1970  ,  Riverfront hosted the  1970  Major League Baseball  all-star   खेल  .
इस  game  is  best remembered for the often-replayed collision  at   घर  plate between Reds  स्टार  Pete Rose and catcher  रे  Fosse of the  क्लीवलैंड  Indians .
in   सितंबर   1996  , Riverfront Stadium was renamed ``  cinergy  Field  ''  in  a  sponsorship deal with Greater Cincinnati 's energy company  ,  Cinergy Corporation  .
In 2001  ,  to make room for Great  अमरीकी  Ball  पार्क   ,  the  seating  capacity at  cinergy  Field was reduced to 39,000 .
There was a huge  वॉल  in Center  फ़ील्ड  visible after the renovations  ,  to serve  as  the batter  's  eye .
the  stadium was  demolished  by  implosion  on December  29  , 2002  .
Nexen Tire is a tire manufacturer  ,  headquartered  in  Yangsan , South Gyeongsang Province  ,  and Seoul , both in South  कोरियाई  .
Its major domestic competitors  हैं  Hankook  टायर  and Kumho  टायर  .
The  कम्पनी   's   नाम   is  reflected  in  the company  स्लोगन   ,  `` Next  सदी  Tire  .  ''
The silent majority is  an   अनिर्दिष्ट   विशाल   बहुमत  of people  in  a  देश   or  group who do  नहीं   एक्स्प्रेस  their opinions publicly  .
the  term  थी  popularized ( though not  पहला  used ) by  u.S.  President Richard  निक्सन   in  a November 3  ,  1969 , speech  in   जिससे  he said , `` And  so  tonight—to you , the great  मूक  majority of  my  fellow Americans—I  पूछो  for your  support  . ''
In  इस  usage it  referred  to those Americans  जो   किया  not join in the  विशाल  demonstrations  विरूद्ध  the Vietnam War  at  the time , who did not  जुड़ें   in  the  counterculture  , and who  किया   नहीं  participate in public discourse .
Nixon along with many others saw this group of Middle  अमेरिकी  as being  निष्प्रभ  in  the   मीडिया  by the more vocal  अल्पसंख्यक   .
the   phrase  was used in the 19th century as a euphemism  referring  to all the people who  have   died  , and others  have  used  it  before  और  after  निक्सन  to  refer  to groups  of   मतदाता  in various nations of the world  .
Sam ,  a   rhesus  monkey ,  उड़ाया  to  an   ऊँचाई  of 88 km  in  1959  .
( NASA  )
पहले  humans went into space , several animals were launched into space ,  सहित  numerous  बंदरों  ,  so   कि  scientists  could   investigate  the biological effects of space travel .
the   संयुक्त  States  शुभारम्भ  flights  containing  primate  कार्गो  primarily  between  1948-1961 with one flight in 1969 and one in 1985 .
फ़्रांस  launched  दो  monkey-carrying  फ़्लाइट   in   1967   .
the  Soviet Union and Russia launched  बंदरों   between  1983  और  1996  .
Most  बंदरों  were anesthetized before lift-off  .
Overall thirty-two monkeys flew in the  स्पेस   कार्यक्रम  ;  none   उड़ाया   अधिक   than  once .
Numerous back-up monkeys  भी  went  through  the  कार्यक्रम  but never flew .
बंदरों  from several  प्रजाति  were used , including  rhesus  monkeys ,  cynomolgus  monkeys , squirrel monkeys ,  और  pig-tailed  macaques  .
Some chimpanzees ( which are apes  बल्कि   than  monkeys )  यहूद   भी  used .
RAID  (  redundant array of independent  डिस्क  , originally redundant array  of  inexpensive disks )  is  a storage technology  कि   combines  multiple disk drive components into a logical unit  .
आंकड़ा  is distributed  आरपार   the   ड्राइव   in   एक  of several ways called  ``   रेड  levels  ''  , depending on the level  of   अतिरेक  and performance required .
The  पद  ``  रेड  ''  थी   पहला  defined by David Patterson  ,  Garth A.  गिब्सन  ,  और  Randy  katz   at  the University of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , Berkeley  in  1987 .
Marketers representing industry RAID manufacturers later attempted  to  reinvent the term  to  describe a redundant array of  स्वतंत्र  disks as a means of  disassociating   a   low-cost  expectation from RAID  प्रौद्योगिकी  .
RAID  is   अभी  used  as   an  umbrella term for computer  आंकड़ा   भंडार  schemes  कि   can  divide and  replicate  data  among  multiple  शारीरिक  drives :  रेड  is an example  of  storage virtualization and the  सरणी  can be  पहुँचा   by   the  operating system as  एक  single drive .
The different  योजनाएं  or  architectures  are named  by  the word RAID followed  by  a number (  e.g  .  रेड   0  , RAID 1 )  .
प्रत्येक   योजना   provides  a  अलग  balance between  the   कुंजी  goals  :   विश्वसनीयता   और   उपलब्धता  , performance and capacity .
RAID  स्तर  greater than RAID  0   provide  protection against unrecoverable (  सेक्टर  )  पढ़ा  errors , as well as  पूरे  disk  विफलता  .
A  lymphocyte  is  a  type of white blood  कोशिका   in  the vertebrate immune system .
Under  the  microscope  ,  lymphocytes can be divided into large  lymphocytes   और   छोटी   lymphocytes  .
विशाल  granular lymphocytes include natural killer cells (  nk  cells ) .
Small lymphocytes  consist   of   t  cells  और  B  कोशिकाएं  .
The Big Lebowski is a 1998  अंधेरा  comedy  फिल्मी  written  और   निर्देशित  by Joel and Ethan Coen .
जेफ़  Bridges  सितारों   as  Jeff  lebowski  , an unemployed  लॉस  Angeles slacker and  avid  bowler , nicknamed `` The Dude .  ''
After a case  of  mistaken identity  ,  The  यार  is  introduced   to  a  करोड़पति  also named Jeffrey  lebowski  .
When the millionaire Lebowski  's  trophy  बीवी   is   बाद  kidnapped  ,  he commissions The Dude to  उद्धार   the  ransom  to   सुरक्षित   उसके  release  .
The  योजना   goes   awry  when  the  Dude 's friend Walter Sobchak ( John  गुडमैन   )  schemes to keep the full ransom  .
Steve  buscemi   ,   फिलिप  Seymour Hoffman , David Huddleston , Julianne  मूर  , Tara Reid  ,  and John  turturro  also star in the  फिल्मी  , which is narrated  by  a  काउंटी  known  तभी   as  ``  the   अजनबी  '' ,  निभाई  by Sam Elliott .
The  फिल्मी  is loosely inspired by the work of  रेमंड  Chandler  .
जोएल  Coen stated : `` We  चाही  to do  a  Chandler kind  of   स्टोरी   –   कैसा  it moves  episodically  , and  सौदे  with  the  characters  trying  to  सुलझाना  a mystery , as well  as  having  a   hopelessly  complex plot that 's ultimately  महत्वहीन  . ''
The  असली  score was composed by Carter  burwell  , a longtime  collaborator  of the Coen  भाइयो   .
The Big Lebowski was  a  disappointment at the  u.S.  box office and received mixed reviews  at  the time of its  रिलीज  .
Reviews have  trended  towards the positive  over   समय  , and the film  रै  become a  cult  favorite , noted for its idiosyncratic  वर्ण   ,  dream  sequences  , unconventional dialogue ,  और  eclectic soundtrack .
सेवेरस  Snape  is  a fictional character in the Harry Potter book series  लिखा   by  J.K. Rowling .
In the first  अनोखा  of  the   श्रेणी   ,   he  is hostile toward  हैरी   और  is  निर्मित  up to  be  the primary  विपक्षी  until the final  अध्याय  .
As the  श्रेणी  progresses  ,  Snape 's  अक्षर  becomes more layered and complex .
रोलिंग   करता  not fully  खुलासा  the details of  उसके  true loyalties until the end of the  फाइनल  book  ,   हैरी  Potter and the  deathly  Hallows .
over  the course of the  श्रेणी   ,  Snape 's portrayal evolves from that of  a  malicious and partisan teacher  to   कि   of   a  pivotal character of considerable complexity and moral ambiguity .
Snape  primarily   सिखाती   potions  at  हॉग्वार्ट्स   ,  though in the sixth  अनोखा  he teaches  रक्षा  Against the  अंधेरा  Arts ,  a  position which he was  ज्ञात  to have  desired  throughout the  श्रेणी   .
he  ultimately becomes  हेडमास्टर  of Hogwarts in  the  final novel .
Rowling has  वर्णित   उसे   as  `` a gift of  a  character  ''  .
Grits refers to a ground-corn food of Native American origin  ,   कि   is  common in  the   दक्षिणी  United States and  मुख्यतः  eaten  at  breakfast  .
आधुनिक  grits are  commonly   बना  of  alkali-treated  corn  ज्ञात  as  hominy  .
grits   हैं  similar  to   अन्य  thick maize-based  porridges  from around the world such as  polenta  or the thinner farina .
``  तत्काल  grits  ''  have been  processed  to speed cooking .
the  word `` grits  ''  derives from  the  Old English word ``  grytt  , '' meaning coarse meal .
इस   शब्द  originally referred to wheat and other  porridges  now  ज्ञात  as groats  in  parts of the  u.K..
मक्का  , unknown in Europe  in   the   मध्य  Ages ,  is  a food derived from corn  (  a New World  संयंत्र   )  and `` corn '' had been used to describe wheat products in many European regions  .
``  Grits '' may be either singular or plural ; historically , in  the  American  दक्षिण   the  word was  invariably  singular notwithstanding its plural form (  cf  . such food  names  as `` spaghetti '' or  ``  linguine  ''  ,  likewise   बहुवचन  in form  ,  but  एकवचन  in  उपयोग  ) .
Sometimes , grits are called  sofkee   or  sofkey  (  from a  देशी  American Muskogee word ) .
In molecular biology , human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is  a  hormone  उत्पादित  by the  निषेचित  egg after  धारणा   .
Later during  गर्भावस्था   it  is made by  the  developing  placenta  , and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast .
कुछ  cancerous  tumors   उपज  this  हार्मोन  ;  इसलिए  , elevated  स्तर  measured when the patient is  नहीं  pregnant can lead  to  a  कर्कट  diagnosis .
However , it is not  ज्ञात  whether this production is a contributing cause or  an  effect of tumorigenesis .
The pituitary analogue of hCG  ,  known as luteinizing hormone  (  LH ) , is  उत्पादित   in  the  pituitary  gland of males and females of  सब  ages .
,   the   एफडीए   रै   निषिद्ध  the  बिक्री   of  `` homeopathic ''  और  over the  काउंटर   hcg  diet products and declared them fraudulent and  illegal  .
the   लास  Vegas Strip  संसार   of  Coca-Cola museum  in   2003
Coca-Cola is a  कार्बोनेटेड  soft drink sold in  स्टोर्स   ,  restaurants , and vending machines in every country except Cuba and North  कोरियाई   .
it  is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of  अटलांटा  , Georgia ,  और  is often  referred  to simply  as  Coke ( a registered trademark  of   the   coca-cola   कम्पनी   in  the  संयुक्त  States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
originally   intended   as  a patent medicine when  it  was  invented   in   the  late 19th century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was  खरीदा  out by  बिजनेसमैन  Asa  griggs  Candler  ,  whose marketing  tactics  led Coke  to  its  दबदबा   of  the world soft-drink market throughout  the   20th  century .
The  कम्पनी  produces  concentrate  , which  is  then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers  throughout   the  world  .
The bottlers , who  थाम   territorially  exclusive contracts with the company  ,   उपज  finished product  in  cans and bottles from the concentrate  in  combination with  filtered   जल   और  sweeteners .
The  bottlers  then sell , distribute  और  merchandise Coca-Cola to  खुदरा  stores and vending  मशीने  .
Such  bottlers  include  coca-cola  Enterprises , which is the largest  सिंगल  Coca-Cola bottler  in  North America and western  यूरोपीय  .
the  Coca-Cola Company also sells  concentrate  for soda  स्रोतों  to major restaurants and food service  वितरकों   .
The  coca-cola   कम्पनी  has , on  अवसर   ,  introduced other  कोला  drinks  अंतर्गत  the Coke brand name .
The  सबसे  common of these is Diet  कोक  , with others including Caffeine-Free  coca-cola  , Diet Coke Caffeine-Free  ,  Coca-Cola  चेरी  ,  coca-cola   शून्य  , Coca-Cola Vanilla ,  और  special versions with  नीबू  ,  लाइम  or coffee .
Based on Interbrand  's  best global brand 2011 ,  coca-cola  was the world 's most valuable brand .
An ombudsman is  an  official  ,  usually  नियुक्त  by the government  or   by  parliament  लकिन  with a significant degree  of  independence , who is  चार्ज   साथ  representing  the  interests of  the  public by investigating and addressing complaints of maladministration or violation of rights .
In  कुछ   देशों   an  Inspector  सामान्य  , Citizen Advocate  or   अन्य   आधिकारिक  may have  कर्तव्य  similar to  those  of a national ombudsman  ,  and may also be appointed by the legislature .
Below  the   नेशनल  level an ombudsman may  be  appointed by a state , local or municipal  सरकारी  , and unofficial  ombudsmen  may be appointed  by  , or  भी  work  लिये  , a  निगम  such as a utility  प्रदायक  or a  समाचारपत्र  ,  लिये  an NGO , or for a professional  नियामक  body .
Whether appointed  by   the   विधानमंडल  , the  कार्यपालिका  , or an organization  (  or , less frequently , elected by  the  constituency that he  or   वो  serves  )  , the typical duties  of  an ombudsman are to investigate complaints and attempt to resolve them  ,  usually through recommendations (  बाइंडिंग   or  not ) or mediation .
ombudsmen   sometimes   भी  aim  to   पहचानो  systemic issues leading  to   ग़रीब   सेवा   or  breaches of people 's rights  .
At the national level ,  सबसे   ombudsmen  have  a   चौड़ी  mandate  to  deal  साथ  the  संपूर्ण   पब्लिक  sector  ,  and  sometimes  also  तत्व  of the  निजी  sector ( for example , contracted  सेवा   प्रदाताओं   )  .
In some cases ,  वहीँ  is  a   अधिक   प्रतिबंधित  mandate ,  लिये   उदाहरण   साथ   particular  sectors of society  .
More  हाल   developments  have included the creation  of   specialised  Children  's   ombudsman  and Information Commissioner agencies .
in  some  jurisdictions   an  ombudsman  चार्ज  with  the   हैंडलिंग  of  चिंताएं  about  नेशनल   सरकारी  is more  formally  referred  to  as the  ``  Parliamentary  कमिश्नर   ''  ( e.g .  the  United Kingdom Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration , and  the   पश्चिमी  Australian state Ombudsman  )   .
In  अनेक  countries  जहाँ  the  ombudsman   's  remit  extends  beyond dealing with alleged  maladministration  to promoting  और  protecting human  अधिकारों  ,  the  ombudsman  is   recognised  as the national human  अधिकारों  institution .
The post of ombudsman had by the  समाप्त  of  the   20th  century  महरूम  instituted by  सबसे  governments and by  कुछ  intergovernmental  संगठन  such as  the   यूरोपीय  Union .
Making a complaint to  an   ombudsman  is usually free of  चार्ज   .
चिह्न   at   georgetown  University Washington  dc
Sign in Banjul , The Gambia
पतझड़   in  New England , watercolor , Maurice  prendergast  .
Ca  .  1910–1913
Fall foliage in the town of Stowe , Vermont
New England is a  प्रदेश   in   the  northeastern corner of  the   संयुक्त  States  consisting  of  the  six  राज्य  of Maine ,  नई  Hampshire , Vermont  ,  Massachusetts , Rhode Island , and Connecticut .
New England is bordered by New York state to the  दक्षिणपश्चिम  ,  क्यूबेक  to  the   उत्तरपश्चिम  , and New Brunswick and the Atlantic Ocean to the east .
In one of the earliest  अंग्रेज़ी  settlements in North America  ,  Pilgrims  इससे  England first settled in New England  in   1620  , to form Plymouth Colony  .
Ten  सालो   बाद   ,  the  puritans  settled north of Plymouth Colony in Boston  ,  thus forming  मैसाचुसेट्स  Bay  उपनिवेश  .
Over  the  next 130  सालो  , New England fought  in  four French and Indian Wars , until the  अंग्रेजों  defeated the French and  उनके   देशी   allies  in North America .
in  the late  18th  century , the  नई  England Colonies initiated the  प्रतिरोध   to   the  British Parliament 's efforts  to  impose  नई  taxes without the consent of the colonists .
The Boston Tea Party was a  विरोध   to   जिससे  Great Britain  responded  with  a  series of punitive laws stripping Massachusetts of self-government  ,  which were termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists .
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775 , the expulsion of the British authorities from  नई  England  in  spring 1776 ,  और   the  Declaration  of  Independence in  जुलाई  1776 .
कुछ   of   the   पहला  movements of American  साहित्य  , philosophy , and education originated in New  इंग्लैण्ड  .
the  region  निभाई   a   prominent  role in the  गति   to  abolish slavery ,  और  was the  पहला   प्रदेश  of the United States  to  be transformed by  the  Industrial Revolution  .
Today ,  नई  England is a major  संसार  center of education  ,  high  प्रौद्योगिकी   ,  insurance , and  आयुर्विज्ञान   .
Boston is its cultural , financial , educational  ,  medical and transportation center .
Each state is principally subdivided into small  incorporated  municipalities known as New  इंग्लैण्ड  towns  ,  which are often governed by town meeting .
The only unincorporated territory  in  New  इंग्लैण्ड  exists in the sparse ,  उत्तरी  regions of  वर्मांट  ,  नई   हैम्पशायर  , and Maine .
चूंकि  1970 ,  मतदाता   have  more  प्रायः   समर्थित   उदार  candidates  at  the state and federal level  than  those  of  any  अन्य  region in the United States .
New  इंग्लैण्ड   is  the only  एक  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Census Bureau  's  nine  क्षेत्रीय   विभाजन   जिनकी   नाम   करता   नहीं   derive  from  इसके  geography  ,  and it  is  the  तभी   multi-state   प्रदेश  with clear ,  सतत  boundaries  .
It  maintains   a  strong sense of  सांस्कृतिक   पहचान  set  अलावा  from the rest of the country ,  हालांकि  the terms  of  this identity are often contested ,  combining  Puritanism with liberalism , agrarian life  साथ  industry  ,  and isolation with immigration .
आपात  !
is   an   अमरीकी  television series  कि   combines  the medical  नाटक  and action-adventure genres  .
It  थी  produced  by   चिह्नित  VII Limited and distributed by Universal Studios .
It debuted as a midseason  बदलना   on  January  15  , 1972  ,   on  NBC , replacing the two  short-lived  series The  साझेदार  and The Good Life  ,  and ran until September 3 , 1977 , with six  अतिरिक्त  two-hour television films during  the  following two years .
Emergency  !
was created  और  produced by  जोकर  Webb and Robert A. Cinader , both of whom were  भी  responsible for the  पुलिस  dramas Adam-12 and  dragnet   .
The Eastern Time Zone ( ET ) encompasses  17  U.S. states in the eastern part  of   the   संलग्न   संयुक्त  States , parts of  कनाडा   और  three  देशों  in South  अमेरिका   .
स्थान   कि  use Eastern Standard Time ( EST )  जब  observing standard time  (  autumn/winter  )   हैं   5  hours behind Coordinated  सार्वभौमिक   समय  (  )  .
Eastern  daylight  Time ( EDT ) , when observing daylight saving  समय  ( spring/summer )  is   4   घंटों   पीछे   समन्वित   सार्वभौमिक  Time ( ) .
in   the  northern  भाग  of the  समय  zone , during  the   दूसरी   संडे   in  March  ,   at   2:00  a.m. EST ,  घड़ियाँ  are advanced to 3:00 a.m.  edt  leaving a one  घंटा   ``   गैप   .  ''
During the first Sunday in November , at 2:00 a.m. EDT  ,  clocks are moved  वापस  to 1:00 a.m.  est  , thus  ``  duplicating '' one hour .
Southern  भाग  of the  मण्डल  ( Panama and the  caribbean   )  do not observe daylight  छायांकन  .
मानक   रूप  of the  आवधिक  table .
the   रंगों   represent  different categories of  तत्व  explained below  .
the   आवधिक  table  is   a   table  display of  the  chemical elements  ,  organized on the  आधार  of their  परमाणु  numbers , electron configurations , and recurring  रासायनिक   गुण  .
Elements are  प्रस्तुत  in  अनुक्रम   of  increasing atomic  क्रमांक   (  number  of  protons  )  .
The  मानक   रूप  of table comprises an  18   ×  7 grid or  प्रमुख  body  of   तत्व   ,  positioned above a  छोटी  double  पंक्ति  of  तत्व  .
The  तालिका  can also be deconstructed into  चार   आयताकार  blocks : the s-block to  the  left ,  the  p-block  to  the right , the d-block  in   the  middle  ,  and the f-block  नीचे  that  .
The rows of the table are  पुकारा  periods ;  the  columns of the  s-  , d-  ,  and p-blocks are  पुकारा   समूह  ,  साथ  some of these  having  names  ऐसे  as the halogens or the noble gases  .
चूंकि  , by definition  ,  a periodic  तालिका   incorporates  recurring  रुझान   ,   कोई  such table can  be  used  to   derive  relationships between  the   गुण  of  the  elements and predict the properties of new , yet to be discovered or  synthesized   ,   तत्व  .
As  a   परिणाम  , a  आवधिक   table—whether  in the standard  रूप  or some other variant—provides a useful framework  लिये  analyzing  रासायनिक   बर्ताव   ,  and  ऐसे   टेबल  are widely used in chemistry and other sciences .
हालांकि  precursors exist , Dmitri Mendeleev is  generally  credited with the publication  ,  in 1869  ,   of  the first  widely  recognized periodic  तालिका  .
He developed his table to illustrate periodic  रुझान  in the properties  of  the then-known elements .
Mendeleev also predicted some  गुण  of  then-unknown  elements  कि  would  be   अपेक्षित  to fill  गैप   in  this table .
Most  of  his predictions were proved correct  जब  the  तत्व   in  question were subsequently discovered .
Mendeleev 's periodic table  रै  since  महरूम   विस्तारित  and  परिष्कृत  with  the   डिस्कवरी  or synthesis  of  further new  तत्व  and the development of new  सैद्धांतिक  models  to  explain chemical behavior .
All elements  इससे   परमाणु   संख्याएँ  1 ( hydrogen ) to  118   (   ununoctium  ) have been  खोजा  or  synthesized   .
The  तत्व   इससे  1 to 98  (  californium )  have   महरूम  found to  मौजूद   naturally  , although  कुछ  are found only in trace  amounts   और   यहूद   initially  discovered by  संश्लेषण  in laboratories  .
the  elements after 98 have only  महरूम   synthesized  in laboratories  .
Production of  तत्व  beyond  ununoctium  is being pursued  ,   साथ  the question  of   कैसा   the  periodic table may need  to  be  परिवर्धित  to accommodate any  ऐसे  additions being a matter of  जारी   बहस  .
Numerous synthetic radionuclides  of   naturally  occurring  तत्व   have  also  महरूम  produced in  laboratories   .
Minecraft is  a  sandbox indie  खेल  originally created  by  Swedish programmer  markus   ``   पायदान  ''  persson  and later developed  और  published by Mojang .
it   थी   सरेआम  released for the  pc  on May 17  ,  2009 , as a  developmental  alpha  संस्करण   और  , after gradual updates , was  प्रकाशित   as   a  full release version  on  November 18 , 2011 .
A version for  एंड्रॉइड  was released  a  month earlier on October  7  , and an iOS version was released on  नवम्बर  17 , 2011 .
On  may  9 ,  2012  ,  the  game was released  on  Xbox 360 as  an  Xbox  सजीव  Arcade game  ,   co-developed  by 4J  studios  .
All  संस्करण   of  Minecraft receive periodic updates .
The  रचनात्मक  and building  पहलुओं  of Minecraft allow players to build constructions  आउट  of  textured  cubes  in  a  3d   procedurally  generated  संसार   .
Other  क्रियाएँ  in the game include exploration , gathering resources ,  crafting   और   कॉम्बैट   .
Gameplay in its  वाणिज्यिक  release  रै  two principal modes : survival ,  जिससे  requires players to acquire resources  और   maintain  their health and hunger  ;  and  रचनात्मक   ,  where  खिलाड़ी  have an unlimited  सप्लाई   of  resources  ,   the   क्षमता  to fly  ,  and no health or hunger .
A  तीसरा  gameplay mode named hardcore is the  वही  as  अस्तित्व  , differing only in difficulty ;  it  is set  to   hardest  setting  और  respawning is disabled  ,  forcing players to delete their worlds  upon  death  .
Minecraft received five  पुरस्कार  from  the   2011  Game Developers Conference  :  it  थी  awarded the Innovation Award  ,  Best Downloadable  खेल   पुरस्कार  ,  और  the Best Debut  खेल  Award from the  खेल   डेवलपर  Choice Awards ; and the Audience Award ,  as  well as the Seumas McNally Grand  पुरस्कार  , from the Independent Games  पर्व  in  2011   .
In 2012 , Minecraft  थी  awarded a Golden Joystick Award in the category  बेहतरीन   downloadable   खेल  .
As  of  April 8  ,  2013  ,  the game  रै   बेची  over 10  लाख   नक़ल  on PC and as of January 22 , 2013 , over 20 million copies  आरपार  all platforms .
The Dark  नाईट  is a 2008 British-American superhero film  निर्देशित  , produced  ,  and co-written  by  Christopher  नोलन   .
Based on the DC  कॉमिक्स  character Batman , the film is the second part of Nolan 's  बैटमैन  film  श्रेणी  and  a  sequel to 2005 's  बैटमैन  Begins  .
Christian Bale  reprises  the lead role of Bruce  wayne/batman   ,  with a returning cast  of  Michael Caine  as  Alfred  pennyworth   ,   गेरी   oldman  as James Gordon and  मॉर्गन  Freeman  as  Lucius Fox .
the  film introduces  the  character  of  Harvey  डेंट   (  Aaron Eckhart )  ,   गोथम  's newly elected District  attorney   और  the consort of Bruce Wayne 's childhood friend Rachel  dawes   (   मैगी  Gyllenhaal ) ,  जो  joins Batman and the police in  combating  the new rising threat  of  a  दण्ड  mastermind calling himself  ``  The Joker `` ( Heath Ledger )  .
Nolan 's inspiration for the film  थी  the Joker 's  कॉमिक   किताब  debut in 1940  ,   the   1988  graphic novel , and the  1996  series  ,   जिससे  retold  two-face  's origin .
the   उपनाम  `` the Dark Knight  ''  was first applied to Batman in Batman No . 1  (  1940 )  ,   in   a  story written by Bill Finger .
The Dark  नाईट  was filmed  primarily  in Chicago , as well  as   in   अनेक  other locations in the United States , the United Kingdom ,  और  Hong Kong .
Nolan used an IMAX camera to film some sequences  ,   सहित  the Joker 's first appearance in  the  film .
on  January  22  , 2008 , some months after  he   था  completed filming on The  अंधेरा  Knight  और  six months before the film  's  release , Heath  लेजर  died from a toxic combination  of  prescription  दवाएँ  , leading to  तीव्र  attention from the press and  movie-going  public .
Warner Bros. had  initially  created a  वाइरल   विपणन  campaign  लिये  The Dark Knight ,  विकासशील  promotional websites and trailers highlighting screen shots of Ledger as the Joker , but after Ledger  's   मौत  , the studio refocused its promotional campaign .
the  Dark Knight was  released  on July 16 , 2008 in Australia , on July 18 ,  2008  in  उत्तर   अमेरिका  , and on July 24 ,  2008  in the  संयुक्त   किंगडम  .
Considered one of  the  best films of the 2000s  और  one  of  the best superhero  films  ever made , the film  प्राप्त  highly  धनात्मक  reviews and  नियत  numerous  रिकॉर्ड  during  इसके   नाट्य  run .
साथ   over  $ 1 billion in  आय  worldwide , it  is  the  14th-highest-grossing   फिल्मी   of   सब  time , unadjusted for inflation .
The film  प्राप्त   आठ  Academy  पुरस्कार  nominations ; it won  the  award  लिये  Best  ध्वनि  Editing and Ledger  थी  posthumously awarded  बेहतरीन  Supporting Actor .
The Dark  नाईट  Rises ,  the  final  भाग   of  the trilogy  ,   थी  released on July 20  ,   2012  .
The timeline of  रेडियो   सूचियाँ   भीतर   the   इतिहास   of  radio , the technology and  कार्यक्रम  that produced instruments that  उपयोग   रेडियो  waves and activities that people undertook .
Later  ,  the history  is  dominated by  प्रोग्रामिंग   और  contents , which  is  closer to  सामान्य  history .
The Sydney Opera  हाउस  is a multi-venue performing arts  केन्द्र  in New South Wales  ,   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
it   थी   conceived   और  largely  निर्मित  by  डैनिश  architect Jørn  utzon   ,  opening in 1973  बाद  a  long  gestation that began with his competition-winning design in  1957   .
जोसेफ  Cahill  's  New South Wales Government  दिया   the  go-ahead  लिये  work to begin  in  1958 .
The government 's bold decision to  चुनें  Utzon  's   डिज़ाइन  is often overshadowed by  the  scandal  कि   followed  .
It is  on  Bennelong  पाइंट  in Sydney Harbour , close  to  the  सिडनी  Harbour Bridge .
it  sits at  the  northeastern tip  of  the Sydney central business district  (  the CBD ) , surrounded on  तीन   पहलू  by the  harbour  ( Sydney  कोव  and  फार्म  Cove ) and inland by  the  Royal  botanic  Gardens .
Contrary to its  नाम  ,  it  houses multiple  प्रदर्शन  venues .
It is among the busiest performing arts  केंद्रों   in  the  संसार  , hosting  over  1,500 performances each year attended by some 1.2 million people .
It provides a  स्थान  for many performing-arts  कंपनियाँ  , including  the  four key resident companies  ओपेरा  Australia ,  the  Australian Ballet  ,  the Sydney Theatre  कम्पनी  and the Sydney  सिंफनी   ऑर्केस्ट्रा   ,   और   presents  a wide range  of   प्रोडक्शन्स  on its own  खाता  .
It is also one of  the  most  लोकप्रिय  visitor attractions in Australia , with more than seven million people visiting each year , 300,000 of whom take  a  guided tour  .
It is administered  by  the  सिडनी  Opera House Trust  ,  under  the  New South Wales Ministry of  the  Arts .
on  28 June 2007  ,  it  थी   बना   a  UNESCO World Heritage  साईट  .
It  is  one  of   the  20th century 's most distinctive buildings and one of  the   सबसे  famous performing arts centres  in  the world .
A graph  of   देह   द्रव्यमान  index as a function of body mass and  देह  height is shown  ऊपर  .
The  dashed  lines represent subdivisions within a major class .
लिये  instance  the  `` Underweight ''  वर्गीकरण  is further  विभाजित  into  ``   कठोर  '' , ``  मॉडरेट  '' , and `` mild ''  subclasses   .
the   देह  mass index ( BMI ) ,  or   quetelet   अनुक्रमणिका  ,  is   a  measure for human  देह  shape based  on  an individual  's  weight and height .
it  was devised between  1830   और  1850 by the Belgian  बहुश्रुत  Adolphe Quetelet  दौरान   the  course of developing  ``  social physics ''  .
देह   द्रव्यमान  index is defined as  the  individual 's  देह  mass divided by  the   वर्गाकार   of  their height  .
The formulae  universally  used  in  medicine produce a unit  of   माप   of  kg/m2  .
BMI  can  also  be  determined using a BMI chart  ,  which displays BMI as a  फलन  of  वज़न  ( horizontal axis  )  and  ऊँचाई  ( vertical axis )  using  contour  लाइनों  for different  मान  of BMI or colors for  अलग  BMI categories  .
† The factor for UK/US units is  अधिक   precisely  703.06957964 , but that  स्तर  of  परिशुद्धता  is  नहीं  meaningful for this calculation .
To  कार्य   इससे  stone  और   पाउंड  first  गुणा   the  stone by 14 then add  the   पाउंड  to give  the  whole  द्रव्यमान  in pounds ; to work  इससे  feet and  इंच  first multiply the feet  by  12  तब  add  the  inches to give the whole  ऊँचाई   in   इंच  .
Thomas Paine  (  January 29  ,  1737 ( NS February 9 , 1737  )   –  June  8   ,   1809   )  was an English-American political  activist   ,   लेखक  ,  राजनैतिक   theorist   और   क्रांतिकारी  .
as  the  लेखक  of two  अत्यधिक  influential pamphlets at the start of  the  American Revolution , he  प्रेरित  the Patriots  in  1776 to declare independence from Britain .
उसके   विचार   reflected  Enlightenment era rhetoric  of  transnational  इंसान   अधिकारों  .
He has been called `` a  corsetmaker   by  trade  ,   a   पत्रकार   by  profession , and  a  propagandist by inclination . ''
Born  in  Thetford  ,   इंग्लैण्ड  , in  the   काउंटी   of   नॉर्फ़ोक   ,  Paine  emigrated  to the British American colonies  in  1774  साथ   the   सहायता  of Benjamin  फ्रैंकलिन   और   he  arrived  in   समय   to   participate   in  the  अमरीकी   क्रान्ति   .
His principal contributions were the powerful  ,   widely  read  pamphlet  Common  भाव   (  1776 ) ,  the   all-time  best-selling  अमरीकी  book that  advocated  colonial  अमेरिका   's   स्वतंत्रता   इससे   the  Kingdom of  ग्रेट  Britain  ,  and  the  American Crisis ( 1776–83 ) , a  pro-revolutionary   pamphlet  series  .
Common  भाव  was so influential  कि   जॉन  Adams said ,  ``  Without the  कलम  of the author of Common Sense , the  तलवार  of Washington would have been  उठाया  in vain.”
Paine lived in  फ़्रांस   लिये  most  of  the 1790s , becoming  deeply  involved in the French  क्रान्ति  .
He wrote  the  Rights of Man (  1791   )  ,  in   भाग   a  defence of the  फ्रेंच   क्रान्ति  against  इसके  critics .
His attacks on British  लेखक   एडमंड  Burke  led  to a trial and conviction  in  absentia  in  1792 for the crime of seditious  मानहानि  .
In 1792 , despite  नहीं  being able  to   बोलो  French , he was elected to the  फ्रेंच   नेशनल  Convention  .
the  Girondists regarded him  as   an  ally .
Consequently , the Montagnards ,  विशेषकर   robespierre  ,  regarded  him as an enemy .
In December  1793  ,  he  was arrested  और  imprisoned in Paris , then  released  in  1794   .
he  became  बदनाम   क्युकी  of The  आयु   of  Reason  (  1793–94  )  ,  उसके  book  कि  advocates deism ,  promotes  reason and  freethinking  ,  और  argues  विरूद्ध  institutionalized  धर्म  in general  और  Christian doctrine in  particular  .
He  भी   लिखा  the  pamphlet  Agrarian  इंसाफ  (  1795  )  ,   discussing  the origins  of  property ,  और  introduced the  अवधारणा  of a  गारंटी  minimum income .
in  1802 , he returned  to  America where he died  on  June 8  ,  1809 .
Only six people attended his  अंत्येष्टि   as  he  था   महरूम  ostracized for his  उपहास   of  Christianity .
Clinical trials  हैं   सेट  of tests in medical  शोध   और  drug development  कि   generate  safety  और  efficacy data ( or more  specifically   ,  information about adverse drug reactions  और  adverse effects of other treatments  )   लिये  health  interventions   (  e.g. , drugs , diagnostics  ,   डिवाइस   ,   चिकित्सा   प्रोटोकॉल  )  .
They are  conducted  only after satisfactory information has  महरूम  gathered on the quality of the non  नैदानिक  safety ,  और  health  authority/ethics   कमेटी  approval is granted in  the  country  जहाँ   स्वीकृति  of  the  drug or device  is  sought  .
previously  , many emerging countries did  नहीं   आवश्यकता  local trials for product approvals .
Now ,  हालांकि   उभरते  countries still accept  आंकड़ा  from U.S./Europe ,  वे  also require  कुछ  local  ट्रायल  .
Depending on the type  of  product  और  the stage of its development ,  जांचकर्ताओं  initially  enroll  volunteers and/or patients into small pilot  अध्ययन   ,  and  subsequently  conduct  larger   स्केल  studies in  मरीजों   कि  often compare the new product with others already approved for the  affliction  of interest .
As positive  सुरक्षा  and  efficacy  data are  gathered  , the number of patients  is  typically  increased  .
नैदानिक  trials can vary in size , and  can  involve a single research entity  in  one country or many such  entities   in  multiple  देशों  .
A  पूरा  series of trials  may   incur  sizable costs  ,  and the  बोझ   of  paying  लिये  all  the  necessary people  और  services  is  usually  borne  by the sponsor , which may be a governmental  संगठन  or a pharmaceutical ,  जैवप्रौद्योगिकी  or medical device  कम्पनी  .
जब  the  विविधता  of required support roles exceeds  the  resources of  the   प्रायोजक   ,  a  नैदानिक  trial is managed by  an  outsourced partner  ,  such as  a  contract research organization  or  a  नैदानिक  trials unit  in  the academic sector .
the  Green  खाड़ी   पैकर्स  are  an  American  फ़ुटबॉल  team  आधारित   in  Green Bay , Wisconsin .
They are  सदस्यों  of the North  प्रभाग   of  the  नेशनल  Football  सम्मेलन  ( NFC )  in  the National Football  लीग  ( NFL  )   .
Green  खाड़ी   is  the third-oldest franchise in  the  NFL , having been organized  और  playing in 1919 .
The Packers are  the  only non-profit , community-owned major league professional sports  टोली   in  the  संयुक्त  States  .
The Packers  हैं   the  last vestige  of  `` small town teams '' that were  एकबार  common in the  एनएफएल   दौरान  the 1920s  और  1930s .
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau (  hence   the  name  lambeau   फ़ील्ड  on  जिससे   the  team plays )  और  George Whitney Calhoun ,  the   ग्रीन  Bay Packers can  ट्रेस  their lineage to  अन्य  semi-professional teams in Green  खाड़ी  dating back  to   1896  .
In  1919   और  1920 the  पैकर्स   competed  as a  semi-professional  football  टोली  against clubs from around Wisconsin and the Midwest .
They joined  the  American Professional  फ़ुटबॉल  Association (  apfa  )  in   1921  , the forerunner to  कया  is known today  as   the  National Football  लीग  (  एनएफएल  ) .
Although  ग्रीन  Bay  is  the last  एनएफएल   ``  small town  ''  team ,  इसके   लोकल  fan base  और  media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home  खेल  there between  1933   और  1994  .
the   ग्रीन  Bay Packers have won  13   लीग   championships   (  more than  कोई  other team in the NFL ) , including  नौ  NFL championships  prior  to  the  Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl victories  —in   1967  (  सुपर  Bowl I  )  ,  1968  ( Super  कटोरी  II )  ,  1997 ( Super  कटोरी  XXXI ) and  2011  ( Super Bowl XLV  )  .
The  पैकर्स   have  long-standing ,  कड़वा  rivalries with  उनके   nfc  North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents ,  the  Chicago Bears , Minnesota  वाइकिंग्स  and the Detroit Lions  .
The  bears-packers  rivalry is one of the oldest  rivalries  in  एनएफएल  history , dating back  to   1921   .
Ethanol fuel is ethanol  (   ethyl  alcohol ) ,  the  same type  of   दारू  found  in  alcoholic  पेय  .
it  is most often used as  a   मोटर  fuel ,  मुख्यतः  as  a   biofuel  additive for gasoline .
संसार   इथेनॉल  production for transport  ईंधन  tripled between  2000  and 2007 from 17  अरब  to more than  52  billion  liters  .
From 2007 to  2008   ,  the  share  of  इथेनॉल   in   वैश्विक  gasoline type fuel use increased from  3.7   %  to 5.4 %  .
in   2011  worldwide ethanol fuel  उत्पादन   पहुँचे   22.36   अरब  U.S. liquid gallons  (   bg  )  (   84.6   अरब   liters   )  , with  the   संयुक्त  States as the top producer with 13.9  bg   (  52.6 billion liters ) ,  हिसाब   लिये  62.2 %  of  global  उत्पादन  , followed by Brazil with 5.6 bg (  21.1  billion  liters  ) .
Ethanol  ईंधन  has  a   ``  gasoline  गैलन   equivalency   ``  (  gge  ) value of , which means 1.5 gallons  of  ethanol  उपज  the energy of  एक  gallon of gasoline .
Ethanol fuel is widely used in  ब्राज़ील  and  in   the  United States , and together both  देशों  were responsible  लिये  87.1  %  of the world 's ethanol  ईंधन   उत्पादन  in  2011  .
Most cars on the road today in the  u.S.  can run on blends of  up  to 10 % ethanol  ,  and ethanol represented 10 % of the  u.S.  gasoline fuel  सप्लाई  derived  इससे   घरेलू  sources  in  2011 .
Since  1976  the  ब्राज़ीलियाई  government  रै   बना   it  mandatory  to  blend ethanol with gasoline , and since 2007  the  legal blend is around 25 % ethanol and 75  %  gasoline (  e25   )   .
By December 2011 Brazil had a  बेड़े  of  14.8   लाख  flex-fuel  ऑटोमोबाइल  and light trucks and 1.5 million flex-fuel  मोटरसाइकिल   कि  regularly  उपयोग   neat  ethanol fuel  (  known  as   e100  ) .
bioethanol   is   a   रूप  of renewable  उर्जा  that can be produced from agricultural feedstocks .
it   can   be  made from very common crops  ऐसे  as sugar cane , potato  ,  manioc and corn  .
There has  महरूम  considerable  बहस  about  कैसा  useful bioethanol will be in replacing gasoline  .
Concerns  परिचय   इसके   उत्पादन  and  उपयोग  relate to  increased   खाना  prices  due  to the  विशाल   राशि  of arable land required  लिये   फसलों   ,  as  खूब  as the energy and pollution balance of the  पूरे   साईकिल  of  इथेनॉल  production , especially from corn  .
Recent  developments  with cellulosic  इथेनॉल  production  और  commercialization may allay some of these  चिंताएं  .
cellulosic   इथेनॉल   offers   वादा   क्युकी  cellulose fibers  ,   a  major and universal component  in  plant cells walls ,  can  be used to produce ethanol  .
according   to  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   उर्जा  Agency , cellulosic  इथेनॉल  could allow ethanol fuels to play a  much  bigger  भूमिका  in  the  future  than   previously  thought .
साब   9-3  SportCombi BioPower .
The  दूसरी   e85  flexifuel model  introduced  by Saab in the Swedish market .
A  प्लैक  commemorating the location of the Sarajevo  हत्या   और  steps  of   gavrilo  Princip  (  image  लिया  in 1987  ,  before  कदम  were removed  in  1992 and plaque  बदला   इससे  Cyrillic to  लैटिन  script )
A plaque commemorating the  स्थान   of  the Sarajevo assassination  (   चित्र   लिया  in 2009 )
On  28  June 1914 , Archduke Franz Ferdinand  of  Austria , heir  presumptive  to the Austro-Hungarian throne  ,   और  his wife ,  सोफी  , Duchess of Hohenberg , were shot  मुर्दे   in  Sarajevo  ,   by  Gavrilo  princip  , one of a group  of   छह  Bosnian  serb   हत्यारे  coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
the  political objective of the assassination was to  ब्रेक  off Austria-Hungary  's  south-Slav provinces so they could  be   संयुक्त  into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia  .
the  assassins ' motives were consistent with the  गति  that later became  ज्ञात  as  यंग   बोस्निया  .
Serbian military officers  stood  behind  the   आक्रमण   .
At the top of these  सर्बियाई  military conspirators  थी  Chief of Serbian Military  प्रज्ञा  Dragutin  dimitrijević  , his righthand man Major  vojislav  Tankosić  ,   और  Masterspy Rade  malobabić   .
प्रमुख  Tankosić armed the assassins with bombs and pistols and trained  उन्हें  .
the  assassins were given  अभिगम  to the same  clandestine  tunnel of safe-houses and  एजेंटों   कि   rade   malobabić  used  लिये  the infiltration  of  weapons and operatives into  austria-hungary  .
The assassins , the key  सदस्यों  of the clandestine tunnel , and the key  सर्बियाई   सैन्य  conspirators who were  स्टिल  alive were arrested  ,  tried ,  convicted  and  punished  .
those  who were  गिरफ्तार  in Bosnia were  आजमाया  in  साराजेवो  in  अक्तूबर   1914   .
The other conspirators were arrested  और   आजमाया   पहले  a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled Salonika  सामने  in 1916–1917 on unrelated  गलत  charges ; Serbia  चलाया   तीन  of the top military conspirators .
Much  of   कया   is   ज्ञात  about  the  assassinations comes from these two trials and related  रिकॉर्ड  .
Assignment of responsibility for  the  bombing and murders  of  28  जून  is highly controversial because the attack led to the  outbreak  of  संसार  War I  एक  month later .
Renée Kathleen Zellweger ( born April  25  , 1969 ) is  an  American actress  और   निर्माता  .
zellweger  first gained  फैली  attention for her  भूमिका  in  the  film  जेरी   मैग्वायर  ( 1996  )  , and subsequently received  दो   nominations  for the  अकादमी   पुरस्कार  for  बेहतरीन  Actress for her  भूमिकाएँ  as Bridget Jones in the comedy Bridget Jones  's  Diary ( 2001  )   ,  and as  roxie  Hart in  the  musical Chicago  (   2002   )  .
She won the  अकादमी   पुरस्कार  for  बेहतरीन  Supporting Actress  लिये   उसके  performance  in  the  नाटक  Cold Mountain ( 2003  )   .
She has won an  अकादमी  Award , three  सुनहरी   ग्लोब  Awards , three Screen  अभिनेताओं   गिल्ड  Awards , and a  bafta  Award ; was named Hasty Pudding  's   स्त्री   of  the Year in 2009 ; and established herself as one of the  highest-paid  Hollywood actresses as of  2007   .
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are the  तीन   smallest  bones  in  the human  देह  ,  the   malleus  ,  the  incus  और  the  stapes   .
They are contained within the middle ear  स्पेस  and serve to transmit  ध्वनि  from the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth (  cochlea  )  .
the   अनुपस्थिति  of the auditory ossicles would constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing  घाटा  .
The term `` ossicles  ''  literally means `` tiny bones ''  और   commonly  refers to the auditory ossicles , though the term may refer to any small  अस्थि  throughout the body .
the   नई  Covenant (  यहूदी  • •  —  Greek • •  diatheke  kaine ) is a  biblical  interpretation  originally  derived from a phrase in  the  Book of Jeremiah  ,  in the Hebrew Scriptures .
It  is  often  विचार   of   as   an  eschatological Messianic Age or world to come and is related to  the  biblical concept  of  the Kingdom  of  God  .
generally  , Christians believe that  the   नई  Covenant was instituted at the Last Supper as  भाग  of the Eucharist , which  in  the Gospel of John  शामिल  the New  commandment   .
There  हैं   अनेक   ईसाई  eschatologies that further define the New  वचन   ,  as an example an  उदघाटन  eschatology defines and describes  the   नई  Covenant as  an  ongoing  संबंध  between Christian believers and God that  होगा  be in full fruition  बाद  the Second Coming of Christ ; that is  ,   it  will not only  be   in   पूरा  fruition  in   believing  hearts , but  in  the future external  संसार   as   खूब   .
The connection between  the  Blood  of   मसीह   और   the  New Covenant is seen in  सबसे  modern  अंग्रेज़ी   अनुवाद   of  the  नई   वसीयत  with the saying  :  ``  इस  cup that is  poured  out for you is  the  new  वचन  in my blood '' .
Christians believe that Jesus is  the   मध्यस्थ  of the  नई   वचन   ,  and  कि  the Blood of  मसीह   शेड  at his crucifixion  is   the   जरूरी  blood of  the  covenant  .
As  साथ  all covenants between God and man described in the Bible , the New Covenant  is  considered  ``   a  bond  in  blood sovereignly administered by  परमेश्वर   .  ''
it  has  महरूम   theorized  that the  नई  Covenant  is  the Law of Christ  as   बोला  during his Sermon  on  the Mount  .
The following  सूची   of   लोगों   pardoned  or granted clemency  by  the President of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  documents the  सबसे   prominent  cases of each presidency  .
as  granted  by   the  Constitution ( Article II ,  खण्ड  2 , Clause 1 ) , Presidents have the power to grant  दया  in one or more of the following ways  :  the  क्षमता  to grant a full pardon  ,  to commute a sentence , or  to  rescind a fine  .
U.S. Presidents have  no  power  to   ग्रान्ट   दया  for  अपराधों  prosecuted  अंतर्गत  state law  .
As  to  the difference between a pardon and a commutation:
A pardon  is  an  कार्यपालिका  order vacating a  conviction  .
A commutation is  the  mitigation of the sentence  of  someone  फिलहाल  serving a  वाक्य  for a crime pursuant to a conviction ,  बगैर  vacating the conviction itself  .
Approximately  20,000  pardons  और  clemencies  यहूद  issued by  u.S.  presidents  in  the 20th century  अलोन  .
The records of acts of clemency  यहूद  public until  1934  .
In 1981  the  Office of the  pardon  Attorney was created and  रिकॉर्ड  from President H.  W.   बुश  forward are now  सूचीबद्ध  .
This list  शामिल   pardons   और  commutations .
Tampa ( ) is a city in the  u.S.  state  of  Florida  .
it  serves as  the   काउंटी   सीट   लिये   hillsborough  County and  is  located on the west coast of Florida , on Tampa Bay  निकट  the  गल्फ  of Mexico .
the  population of  tampa  in 2011  थी   346,037  .
The current location of  tampa  was once  inhabited  by indigenous  peoples  of the  सुरक्षा  Harbor  संस्कृति   ,  most notably the  tocobaga   और  the Pohoy , who lived along the shores  of  Tampa  खाड़ी   .
it  was briefly explored by  स्पेनी   explorers  in  the  early 16th century , but  वहीँ  were  no  permanent  अमरीकी  or European settlements within  आज  's city limits until after the United  राज्य  had  acquired   फ्लोरिडा   इससे  Spain in 1819 .
In 1824 , the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Army  स्थापित  a  frontier   चौकी   पुकारा  Fort Brooke at the mouth of  the   hillsborough   नदी   ,  near the site  of  today  's   tampa  Convention Center  .
the  first civilian residents  यहूद  pioneers who settled near the fort for protection from the nearby  seminole  population  .
The town grew  धीरे   जबतक  the 1880s , when railroad  कड़ी  , the discovery  of   फास्फेट   ,  and the arrival  of   the   सिगार  industry  jump-started   tampa  's  विकास  and helped it  to  grow  into  an important city by  the   जल्दी  1900s .
आज  , Tampa is a part of the metropolitan area most commonly referred to as the Tampa Bay  क्षेत्रफल  .
For U.S.  जनसांख्यिकी  purposes , Tampa  is   भाग   of  the  tampa-st.   petersburg-clearwater  ,  फ्लोरिडा  Metropolitan Statistical Area  .
the   four-county  area is composed  of  roughly 2.7 million residents ,  बनाना   it   the   दूसरी  largest metropolitan statistical area  (   एमएसए   )  in the  राज्य   ,   और   the  fourth largest  in   the  Southeastern  संयुक्त  States  ,  behind Miami  ,   वॉशिंगटन  , D.C. , and  अटलांटा  .
The Greater Tampa Bay  क्षेत्रफल   रै  just over  4  million  निवासियों   और  generally includes the Tampa  और  Sarasota metro areas .
The Tampa Bay Partnership and U.S. Census data showed  an  average  सालाना  growth of 2.47 percent , or a  लाभ  of  लगभग   97,000  residents per  साल  .
between  2000  और   2006  ,  the  Greater Tampa Bay Market  अनुभवी   a  combined growth rate of 14.8  प्रतिशत  ,  growing  from 3.4 million to 3.9 million and hitting the  4  million people mark on April 1 , 2007 .
A  2012  estimate shows the Tampa Bay area population to have  4,310,524  people and  a  2017  प्रक्षेप  of 4,536,854 people .
tampa  has  a  number  of  sports teams , such as the Tampa  खाड़ी  Buccaneers of the National Football  लीग   ,  the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League  ,  and  the   tampa   खाड़ी   तूफ़ान  of the Arena Football League .
The  tampa  Bay  किरणें   in  Major  लीग   बेसबॉल  and the  tampa  Bay  rowdies  of the North American Soccer League play  उनके  home games  in   neighboring   st.  Petersburg  ,  Florida .
In  2008   ,  Tampa  थी  ranked as the 5th best outdoor city by Forbes .
a  2004  सर्वेक्षण   by  the  nyu  newspaper Washington Square News ranked Tampa as  a   शीर्ष   नगर  for  ``   twenty-somethings   .  ''
tampa  is now  क्रमित  as  a  `` Gamma  ''  world  नगर   by  Loughborough  विश्वविद्यालयों  .
According to  loughborough   ,  Tampa ranks alongside  अन्य  world cities such  as  Phoenix ,  सेंटो  Domingo , and  ओसाका   .
In recent  सालो  Tampa has seen a notable upsurge  in  high-market  माँग  from consumers , signaling  अधिक  wealth concentrated in  the   क्षेत्रफल  .
Tampa hosted the 2012 Republican National  सम्मेलन  .
the   शेवरलेट  Cavalier was a compact automobile produced from 1982  to   2005  by General Motors .
Built on the  कम्पनी  's  j  platform , the Cavalier  उत्पादित  the highest sales  in  1984 .
AT & T Mobility  llc   ब्रांडेड   और  referred  to  as AT & T ( formerly  cingular  Wireless LLC  )  , is a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  of AT &  t  Inc. that provides wireless services to 107  लाख   सदस्य   in  the United States ,  सहित  Puerto Rico and the  u.S.  Virgin Islands  .
at   &  T Mobility  is   the   दूसरी  largest wireless  दूरसंचार  provider in  the   संयुक्त  States and Puerto Rico , behind  verizon   बेतार  , which serves  115.78  million customers  as   of   the   चौथी  quarter of 2012  .
AT  &  T Mobility is headquartered in the Lenox Park  क्षेत्रफल   of   dekalb  Co.  जॉर्जिया  ,  बस  outside  अटलांटा  .
Originally  cingular   बेतार  LLC from  2000  to 2007  ,   a   संयुक्त   venture  between SBC Communications  और   bellsouth  , the company acquired the  बूढ़ा  AT & T Wireless in  2004   ;  SBC later  acquired   the  original AT & T  और   re-branded  as `` AT &  t  '' .
Cingular became wholly owned by  at  & T in December 2006  as   a  result  of  AT & T 's acquisition of BellSouth  .
In January 2007 ,  cingular  confirmed  it  would re-brand itself under  the   at  &  t   नाम  .
हालांकि   the  legal  कॉरपोरेट  name  बदलें   occurred   तत्काल  ,  लिये  both regulatory  और  brand-awareness reasons both  ब्रांड्स  were used  in   the  company 's  साइनेज   और  advertising  दौरान  a transition  काल  .
The transition  concluded  in late  जून  , just prior  to   the   rollout  of  the   ठहराना  iPhone  .
On  कूच   20  , 2011 , AT  &   t   गतिशीलता  announced  इसके  intention to acquire T-Mobile USA from Deutsche  telekom  for  $   39   अरब   .
if  it had received government and  नियामक  approval ,  at   &  T would have  था  more than 130 million  सदस्य  .
However , the  u.S.  Department of Justice ,  the  Federal Communications Commission  ,  and AT  &  T Mobility 's competitors ( such  as  Sprint Nextel ) opposed the  मूव  on  the  grounds that it  होता   reduce  competition  in  the cellular  संचार  market .
In December  2011   ,  in the face of both governmental and  फैली  consumer opposition , AT &  t  withdrew their offer to complete the merger .
मार्टिन   लूथर  King , Jr. ( January 15 ,  1929   –  April  4   ,  1968 )  थी  an  अमरीकी  clergyman , activist ,  और  leader  in  the African-American  सिविल  Rights Movement .
he  is best known for his role  in  the advancement of  सिविल  rights  using  nonviolent  सिविल   disobedience  .
किंग  has become a national icon  in  the  इतिहास  of  अमरीकी  progressivism .
A Baptist minister  ,  King became a civil  अधिकारों  activist early in his career .
he  led the  1955  Montgomery  बस  Boycott and  helped  found the Southern Christian Leadership Conference ( SCLC ) in  1957   ,   सेवारत  as its first president .
साथ  the  sclc  , King  led  an  unsuccessful  struggle against  पृथक्करण  in  albany  ,  जॉर्जिया  , in 1962  ,  and organized  nonviolent   विरोध  in Birmingham  ,  Alabama ,  कि   आकर्षित  national attention following  टेलीविज़न  news coverage of  the  brutal police response  .
King  भी  helped  to  organize the 1963  कूच  on  वॉशिंगटन  ,  जहाँ  he delivered his `` I Have  a  Dream  ``  speech .
There , he established his reputation as one of  the  greatest orators in American  इतिहास  .
He also established  उसके  reputation as a radical ,  और   became   an   ऑब्जेक्ट  of the Federal  ब्यूरो  of Investigation 's COINTELPRO for  the  rest  of  his life .
FBI agents  investigated  him  लिये  possible communist ties  ,  recorded his extramarital liaisons and reported on them to  सरकारी   officials   ,   और   on   एक  occasion ,  mailed  King  a  threatening anonymous letter that he  interpreted   as  an attempt to  मेक  him commit suicide .
On October 14 , 1964  ,  King received  the  Nobel Peace Prize for combating racial inequality through  nonviolence   .
In 1965  ,   he  and the SCLC helped to  व्यवस्थित   the  Selma to Montgomery marches  और  the following year  ,  he took the  गति   उत्तर  to  शिकागो  .
In  the  final years of his life ,  किंग  expanded  उसके   फ़ोकस  to include poverty and the Vietnam War ,  alienating  many of his liberal  allies  with a 1967 speech titled  ``  Beyond  वियतनाम   ''   .
किंग  was planning a national  occupation  of Washington  ,   d.C.   ,  called  the  Poor People  's  Campaign  .
King  थी  assassinated  on  April 4 , 1968 , in Memphis ,  टेनेसी   .
His  मौत   थी   followed  by  दंगे   in  many U.S. cities .
दोषारोपण  that James Earl Ray , the man convicted  of  killing King ,  था  been framed or  acted  in  कॉन्सर्ट  with government agents persisted  लिये   दशकों   बाद  the shooting , and the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in  a   षड्यंत्र  against  किंग  .
किंग  was  awarded  the Presidential Medal  of  Freedom  और  the Congressional  सुनहरा  Medal  मरणोपरांत  .
Martin Luther King  ,  Jr. Day  थी  established as a U.S.  संघीय  holiday in 1986 .
Hundreds  of  streets in the  u.S.  have  महरूम  renamed in his  सम्मान  .
A  मेमोरियल  statue  on   the   नेशनल  Mall was opened to the public in 2011 .
The  बाघ  ( Panthera tigris  )   is   the  largest cat  प्रजाति  ,  reaching  a total body length  of  up to and  weighing  up  to  .
It is  the  third  largest  land carnivore ( behind only the polar bear and  the   भूरा  bear ) .
Its most recognizable  विशेषता   is  a  पैटर्न  of  अंधेरा  vertical stripes  on  reddish-orange  फर  with a lighter underside .
it  has exceptionally stout  दांत   ,  and the canines  हैं  the  longest   among   जीना  felids with  a  crown  ऊँचाई  of  as  much  as  or even .
In zoos ,  टाइगर्स  have lived for  20  to  26  years , which also seems to be  उनके  longevity in  the  wild  .
They are territorial  और  generally solitary but  सोशल  animals  ,   प्रायः  requiring large contiguous  क्षेत्रों  of habitat that support  उनके  prey requirements  .
This , coupled  साथ   the  fact that  वे  are  स्वदेशी   to  some of the more densely populated places on  धरती  , has caused significant  विरोध  with humans .
टाइगर्स   एकबार  ranged  widely  across Asia  ,  from Turkey in the west to  the  eastern  coast  of Russia .
Over  the  past 100  सालो  , they have lost 93 % of their  ऐतिहासिक  range , and  have  been extirpated from  दक्षिणपश्चिम  and central Asia  ,  from the islands of  जावा   और  Bali , and from large areas of  southeast  and Eastern Asia .
आज   ,  they range  इससे   the  Siberian taiga to  खोलें  grasslands and tropical mangrove  swamps  .
The remaining six tiger  subspecies  have been  वर्गीकृत  as endangered by IUCN .
the  global population  in   the  wild  is   अनुमानित  to  क्रमांक   between  3,062  और  3,948 individuals , down from around 100,000 at the  प्रारंभ  of  the  20th century  ,  with most remaining populations occurring  in   छोटी  pockets isolated  इससे  each  अन्य   .
Major reasons  लिये  population decline include habitat destruction  ,  habitat fragmentation and poaching  .
The extent  of  area  occupied  by tigers  is   अनुमानित   at  less  than  , a 41 % decline  इससे  the area estimated  in  the  mid-1990s  .
टाइगर्स   हैं  among the  सबसे  recognisable and popular of  the  world  's  charismatic megafauna  .
They  have  featured prominently in ancient mythology  और   लोकगीत  , and continue  to  be depicted  in  modern  films   और  literature .
Tigers appear on many flags ,  coats  of arms , and as mascots for  sporting  teams  .
The Bengal tiger is the national animal  of  both  इण्डिया  and Bangladesh .
The simplified internal structure of a  हरितलवक
अवलोकन   of  the  calvin   साईकिल  and carbon  fixation
The  light-independent   प्रतिक्रियाएँ  of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert  कार्बन   डाइऑक्साइड  and  अन्य  compounds into glucose .
ये   प्रतिक्रियाएँ  occur in the stroma  ,  the fluid-filled area  of  a chloroplast  बाहर  of the  thylakoid   झिल्लियों  .
These reactions take the  light-dependent  reactions  और   perform  further chemical processes on them .
There are three phases  to  the  light-independent   प्रतिक्रियाएँ   ,   collectively  called the Calvin cycle  :  carbon  fixation  , reduction reactions  ,  and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
despite  its  नाम   ,   इस   प्रक्रम  occurs only  जब  light  is  available .
Plants do not carry out the Calvin cycle by night .
They , instead , release sucrose into the phloem  इससे   उनके  starch reserves  .
This process  happens  when light  is  available independent of the kind of  photosynthesis  ( C3 carbon fixation  ,  C4 carbon fixation  ,  and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism  )  ; CAM  पौधे  store  malic  acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work .
a  linen handkerchief with pulled thread  कढ़ाई  around  the  edges
लिनेन  cloth recovered from  qumran  Cave 1  निकट  the Dead Sea .
Linen  (  )  is  a  वस्त्र  made  इससे  the fibers of the flax plant , Linum usitatissimum  .
Linen  is  labor-intensive to manufacture ,  लकिन  when it is made into garments  ,   it  is valued for its exceptional coolness  और  freshness  in   hot  weather .
The word  ``   लिनेन  '' is  of  West Germanic origin  और   cognates  with the Latin name for  the  flax plant  linum  , and the earlier  यूनानी  λινόν  (  linon  )  .
This  शब्द   इतिहास   रै   दिए  rise  to  a number of other terms in  अंग्रेज़ी  , the  सबसे  notable of  जिससे  is  the  English word line  ,  derived from  the  use of a  लिनेन  ( flax )  लड़ी  to determine  a  straight line .
वस्त्र  in  a   लिनेन   बुनते   बनावट  , even when made of  कपास  , hemp and other non-flax  मछली   हैं  also  loosely  referred to as ``  लिनेन  '' .
Such fabrics generally have their  अपना   विशिष्ट  names  अन्य  than linen ;  लिये  example , fine cotton yarn  in  a linen-style weave is called  madapolam  .
The collective term  ``  linens ``  is  still often  प्रयुक्त  generically to describe  a  class  of   woven  and even knitted bed  ,   नहाना  ,  तालिका  and kitchen textiles  .
The  नाम   linens  is  retained   क्युकी   traditionally   ,  linen was  प्रयुक्त  for many  of  these items .
in  the past  ,  the  शब्द  `` linens '' was also used to mean lightweight undergarments such  as  shirts  ,   chemises  , waistshirts , lingerie (  a  word also cognate with linen ) , and detachable  कमीज़  collars and  cuffs  ,  जिससे   यहूद  historically made  लगभग  exclusively  आउट   of  linen .
The  अंदर   cloth  layer of fine  कम्पोजिट  clothing  garments  ( as for  उदाहरण   jackets   )  was traditionally  बना  of linen ,  और   इस  is the origin of the word lining  .
लिनेन   वस्त्र  appear  to   be  some  of   the  oldest in the  संसार  : their history  goes  back many thousands  of   सालो  .
Fragments of  स्ट्रॉ   ,  seeds  ,   मछली  ,  yarns  , and various  प्रकार  of  fabrics  which date back to  परिचय   8000   bc  have been found in  स्विस  lake dwellings .
Dyed flax fibers  मिला  in a prehistoric cave in  जॉर्जिया  suggest  the  use of  woven  linen fabrics from wild flax may date back  भी  earlier to  36,000  BP .
Linen was sometimes used as currency in  प्राचीन  Egypt .
Egyptian mummies were  लपेटा  in linen because it was seen  as   a  symbol  of  light  और  purity , and  as  a display of wealth .
कुछ  of these  fabrics  , woven from hand  spun   yarns  , were very fine  लिये   उनके   दिन   ,  but are  coarse  compared to  आधुनिक  linen .
आज  , linen is usually an expensive  वस्त्र  , and is produced in  अपेक्षाकृत  small quantities .
It has a  long  `` staple '' (  व्यक्तिगत  fiber  लंबाई  ) relative to  कपास   और  other natural fibers .
Many products are made  of  linen : aprons  ,   बैग  , towels ( swimmers , bath  ,  beach , body and  धो  towels )  ,  napkins , bed linens  ,  linen  चौके  , runners , chair  कवर  , and  मेन  's  &   महिलाओं  's  पहनें  .
the  FIFA World Cup , often  बस  the World Cup  ,  is an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  association football  प्रतियोगिता  contested by  the  senior men 's national  टीमों   of  the members of  fédération   internationale   de  Football Association (  फीफा  )  ,   the  sport 's  वैश्विक  governing  देह   .
The championship  रै  been awarded  प्रत्येक  four  सालो   चूंकि  the inaugural  टूर्नामेंट  in 1930 ,  मगर  in  1942   और  1946 when  it   थी  not held because  of  the  दूसरी  World War .
the  current champions  हैं  Spain  ,  who won  the   2010  tournament .
The  वर्तमान  format of  the  tournament  involves  32 teams competing for the title  at  venues within the host nation  (   s  ) over a period of about  a  month ;  इस   phase  is  प्रायः  called  the  World  कप   फाइनल   .
a   योग्यता   phase   ,  which currently takes place  over   the  preceding  तीन   सालो   ,  is  प्रयुक्त  to determine which  टीमों  qualify for the  टूर्नामेंट  together  साथ   the  host  स्वदेश  ( s  )  .
The 19  संसार  Cup  tournaments  have been  जीती  by eight different national teams  .
Brazil  have   जीती   पाँच   टाइम्स   ,  and they are the only team to have played in every tournament .
The other  संसार  Cup winners  हैं   इटली  , with  चार   शीर्षक  ; Germany  ,  with three titles ;  अर्जेंटीना  and inaugural  विजेता   उरुग्वे  ,  साथ   दो  titles each ;  और  England ,  फ़्रांस  , and Spain  ,   साथ  one  शीर्षक   प्रत्येक   .
the  World  कप  is the world  's  most widely  viewed  sporting event ; an estimated  715.1   लाख  people watched  the  final match of  the  2006 FIFA World Cup held  in  Germany .
The next  तीन  World Cups will be hosted by  ब्राज़ील   in   2014  ,  रूस  in 2018 ,  और  Qatar  in  2022 .
The is  an  expansion device  लिये   the   वी   रिमोट  video game controller for the Wii  कि  allows  it  to more accurately capture complex motion .
According  to  Nintendo , the sensor  in  the device supplements the accelerometer and Sensor  बार   सामर्थ्य  of  the  Wii  रिमोट  to  enable   क्रियाएँ  to be rendered identically  on  the  स्क्रीन   in  real time .
the  Wii  's  successor console , the Wii  u  , supports the Wii  motionplus  and  इसके  peripherals  in   खेल  where use of its touchscreen-built-in primary  नियंत्रक  is not necessary .
Majulah  singapura  ( Onward Singapore )  is  the  नेशनल  anthem  of  Singapore .
रचित   by  Zubir Said  in  1958 as  a   थीम  song  लिये  official  कृत्यों  of the City Council  of  Singapore ,  the   सोंग   थी  selected in 1959  as  the island 's  गान  when it  attained  self-government  .
Upon  पूरा  independence  in  1965  ,   majulah  Singapura  थी  formally  अपनाया  as Singapore  's  national anthem .
By law  the  anthem may only be  सुंग   साथ   इसके  original Malay lyrics ,  हालांकि   वहीँ  exist  प्राधिकृत  translations of the lyrics of the  गान  in Singapore 's three other  आधिकारिक   भाषाएं  :  अंग्रेज़ी  , Mandarin and Tamil .
Originally composed in  the  key of  g   प्रमुख   ,  in  2001  the national anthem was  officially  relaunched in the lower key of F  प्रमुख  as this was  कहा  to  allow  for a `` grander  और  more inspiring arrangement '' .
The national anthem is regularly performed  or  sung  in  schools and armed forces camps at ceremonies  आयोजित  at the beginning  and/or  the end  of  each  दिन  , during which the national  ध्वज  is also raised  और  lowered  और  the  नेशनल  pledge is taken .
Singaporeans are  विशेषकर   प्रोत्साहित  to  गाओ   the  national anthem  on   अवसरों  of  नेशनल  celebration or  नेशनल  significance such  as  at the National  दिन  Parade ,  at   नेशनल   दिन  observance ceremonies conducted by  शैक्षणिक  institutions  और  government departments  ,   और   at   sporting  events at which Singapore teams are participating .
An expedition  's  shipwrights  भवन  a  brigantine  ,  1541  .
Shipbuilding  is  the construction  of  ships  और   फ्लोटिंग  vessels .
It normally takes place  in  a specialized  सुविधा  known  as   a   डॉकयार्ड  .
shipbuilders   ,   भी  called shipwrights  ,  follow a  specialized  occupation that  traces  its roots  to  before recorded  इतिहास  .
Shipbuilding and ship  मरम्मत  , both  वाणिज्यिक  and  सैन्य   ,   हैं   referred  to as `` naval  अभियान्त्रिकी  '' .
The construction of boats is a similar activity called boat building .
the   dismantling  of ships  is  called ship  तोड़कर  .
Wakonda  is  a town in  मिट्टी   काउंटी   ,   दक्षिण  Dakota , United States .
The population  थी  321 at the 2010 census .
the   following  is a list  of  the  सबसे   populous   incorporated  places of the  संयुक्त   राज्य   of  America .
As defined by the United States  जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau ,  an  `` incorporated place `` includes  a   किस्में  of designations , including  नगर  ,  कस्बा  ,  गाँव  , borough , and municipality  .
A few exceptional Census  designated   स्थान  ( CDPs  )  are  भी  included in the Census  ब्यूरो  's listing  of  incorporated places .
Consolidated city-counties  represent  a distinct  प्रकार  of government that includes the entire population  of  a  काउंटी  , or county equivalent .
Some consolidated city-counties , however , include multiple incorporated places  .
This list  presents  only that portion ( or  ``  balance  ''  ) of such  संचित   city-counties   कि  are  नहीं  a part of another incorporated place  .
Note  कि   इस   सूची   refers  only  to  the population  of  individual municipalities within their defined limits ,  जिससे   करता  not  शामिल  other municipalities or  unincorporated  suburban areas within urban agglomerations .
a  different  रैंकिंग   is  evident when considering  u.S.  metropolitan area populations .
alt=larger   flashcart   ,  shown with  छोटी  card and U.S. quarter for  आकार
Nintendo DS  भंडार  devices are devices used to store a licensed  डेवलपर  's work-in-progress  बिंब  ,  homebrew  video  खेल  and  डाउनलोड  commercial  खेल  ( since  the  Nintendo DS is not sold  साथ  a rewritable storage medium  )  .
licensed  developers  ,  however , can use a blue Intelligent Systems Nitro Emulator box to flash cards .
ये   डिवाइस  are  भी  known as `` flashcarts  ''  or `` flashcards '' .
There are two main classes  of  flashcarts : older devices which fit in  slot-2  (  the  Game Boy  अग्रिम   खेल   पाक   स्लॉट   )   और  newer  डिवाइस   कि  fit in  slot-1  (  the  DS Game Card  स्लॉट  ) .
Slot-2  (  or first-generation ) devices  have  been historically cheaper  due   to  economies  of   स्केल  (  inherited  from their  उपयोग  with  खेल  Boy Advance ) ,  लकिन  require a booting  औजार  in Slot-1  in  order to use the  टच   स्क्रीन  and  अन्य   ds   सुविधाएँ   .
Second-generation  डिवाइस   (   those   जिससे   तभी  use Slot-1 ) do  नहीं  work with  gba  homebrew ,  लकिन  became  कम  expensive and easier  to   उपयोग  ,  rivaling  many Slot-2 devices in price .
First-generation devices include GBA flash  कारतूस  , GBAMP CF ,  supercard  , and M3 .
Second-generation devices  शामिल   r4  Revolution , CycloDS , G6  रियल  and DS-X .
the  storage device either contains flash memory  or   a  slot for a  मेमोरी   कार्ड   to   स्टोर  homebrew .
Storage devices  साथ  a  memory-card  slot usually have  अधिक  storage capacity than flash-memory devices .
हालांकि  flash-memory capacity  is  usually  measured   in  megabits ( Mb  )  , memory-card  क्षमता  is usually measured  in   मेगाबाइट   (   mb  ) ( where 8 Mb is 1 MB ) .
Storage-device brands differ in  उनके  support for homebrew ; DS  और  Game Boy Advance ROMs ; special features ( such as ability  to  play media  फाइलें  ) ; physical size and cost .
Strictly speaking  ,  a storage  यंत्र  is not necessary for DS  साथ   flashme   संस्थापित  because  homebrew  can be sent to the DS using WMB .
However  ,   इस  is not an easily-portable method because the  ds   needs  to be  भीतर  range  of  a suitable Wi-Fi  कार्ड  .
are American people  of  Japanese  विरासत   .
Japanese Americans have historically been among the three  largest   एशियाई   अमरीकी   समुदायों   ,  but in  हाल   दशकों   ,   it  has become the sixth  largest   समूह  at roughly 1,304,286 , including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity .
In the 2010 census  ,  the largest Japanese American  समुदायों  were found  in   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   साथ  272,528 , Hawaii with 185,502 , New York with 37,780 ,  वॉशिंगटन   साथ   35,008   ,  and  इलिनोइस  with 17,542 .
Southern California  रै  the  largest  Japanese-American  जनसांख्यिकी  in North America .
200px
इस  is  a  comprehensive  लिस्टिंग   जिससे  highlights significant  उपलब्धियाँ  and milestones based  upon  Billboard magazine 's singles  चार्ट  , most notably the  बिलबोर्ड   hot   100   .
इस  list  spans  from  the  issue dated  जनवरी  1 , 1955 to present  .
The  बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 began  साथ  the issue  दिनाँक   अगस्त  4  ,  1958  ,   और  is currently the standard popular music chart  in  the United States .
prior  to  the  creation  of  the Hot 100 , Billboard published four  singles   चार्ट  : `` Best Sellers in  स्टोर्स   ''  , ``  सबसे  Played by Jockeys '' , `` Most  निभाई   in   jukeboxes  '' and ``  the  Top 100 '' .
These  चार्ट  , which ranged from  20   to   100   स्लॉट  ,  यहूद  phased out at different times between 1957 and 1958 .
हालांकि  technically not  भाग   of  the Hot 100 chart history , their data is  शामिल  for computational  उद्देश्य  , and to avoid  unenlightening  or misleading characterizations .
All  वस्तुएं   सूचीबद्ध  below are from the Hot  100  era  ,  unless otherwise noted ( pre-Hot 100 charts ) .
V is an  अमरीकी  science fiction television series that ran for two seasons on  एबीसी   ,  from  नवम्बर  3  ,  2009 to March  15   ,  2011  .
a  remake  of  the 1983 miniseries  निर्मित   by  Kenneth Johnson , the  नई  series chronicles  the  arrival  on   धरती  of a technologically  उन्नत  alien species  जिससे  ostensibly  आता  in peace  ,  but actually has sinister motives  .
V  सितारों  Morena Baccarin , Lourdes Benedicto ,  मॉरिस  Chestnut ,  जोएल  Gretsch  ,  Logan Huffman ,  चार्ल्स   mesure   ,  Elizabeth Mitchell , Laura Vandervoort and  स्कॉट  Wolf , and  थी  executive  उत्पादित  by Scott  rosenbaum   ,  Yves Simoneau  ,  Scott  पीटर्स  , and  jace  Hall  .
the  series was  उत्पादित   by  The Scott Peters  कम्पनी  ,  hdfilms  and  warner  Bros. Television .
Geocaching is  an   बाहरी  recreational  कार्यकलाप  , in which the participants use a Global Positioning  प्रणाली  (  gps  )  receiver  or mobile device and other navigational techniques to hide and seek containers  ,  called  ``  geocaches  ''  or ``  caches  ''  ,  anywhere in the world .
a   ठेठ  cache is a  छोटी   waterproof  container  containing  a logbook where  the  geocacher  enters  the date they  मिला  it and signs  it  with their established code  नाम  .
After  हस्ताक्षर  into the  log  , the  संचय  must be placed back  exactly  where the person found it .
Larger containers such as plastic storage  containers  ( Tupperware or similar ) or ammunition boxes  can  also contain items  लिये  trading , usually toys or  trinkets   of  little  मान  .
Geocaching shares many aspects  साथ  benchmarking ,  trigpointing   ,  orienteering , treasure-hunting , letterboxing  ,   और  waymarking .
बोगी   bas  Productions was a  हिप  hop  समूह   कि   थी  originally  रचित   of  KRS-One  ,  D-Nice ,  और   dj  Scott La Rock .
DJ Scott  la   चट्टान  was murdered on  अगस्त  27 ,  1987  ,  महीने   बाद  the release of BDP  's  debut album , Criminal Minded  .
the  name of  the  group , Boogie  bas   ,  derives  इससे   a  nickname for  the  South Bronx section of The Bronx ,  एक  of  the  five  boroughs  of  नई  York City .
The group  pioneered  the  संलयन  of dancehall reggae and hip hop music and their debut LP Criminal Minded  contained  frank descriptions of life  in  the  दक्षिण  Bronx of the late  1980s   यूँ  setting  the  stage for what  होता  eventually become gangsta rap .
A municipal  बंध   is  a bond issued by a local government  ,   or  their agencies  .
Potential  issuers   of  municipal bonds  शामिल   राज्य  ,  शहरों  ,  काउंटी  ,  redevelopment  agencies , special-purpose districts , school districts  ,  public utility districts  ,  publicly owned airports and seaports , and any other  सरकारी   एंटिटी   (   or   समूह  of  सरकारें   )  at  or  below the state level .
Municipal  bonds  may be general obligations of  the  issuer or secured  by  specified revenues .
In  the  United States , interest  आय  received  by   धारकों  of municipal  bonds  is  प्रायः   exempt  from  the  federal income tax and  इससे   the  income  कर  of  the  state in which they  हैं   जारी  , although municipal  bonds  issued for certain purposes may  नहीं  be  कर  exempt .
Unlike  नई   समस्या   स्टॉक्स   कि   हैं   brought  to market with price restrictions until  the   सौदे  is  बेची  , municipal bonds  हैं   फ़्री   to   व्यापार  at  कोई  time once  वे  are purchased by  the  investor .
पेशेवर  traders  regularly  trade  और  retrade the same  bonds   अनेक  times a week .
`` Gim me Some  lovin   '  ''  is   a  song written  by  Steve Winwood , Spencer Davis and  muff  Winwood , and originally performed by  the  Spencer  डेविस  Group .
The basic  रिफ  of  the   सोंग   थी  borrowed from the Homer Banks song  ``  (  ai  n't That ) A  लॉट  of Love ''  ,   लिखा  by  बैंको  and Willie Dean ``  deanie  ''  पार्कर  .
`` Gim me Some Lovin '  ''   थी   a   uk   #   2  in the Autumn of 1966 and  a  US # 7  .
The  सोंग  is ranked # 247 on the Rolling Stone magazine 's list of  the   500  Greatest Songs of All  समय   .
The version issued  in  the UK (  और  probably most of Europe  )  is different from that  जारी  in the US  on  the United Artists  लेबल   ,   होने  slower ,  और  lacking the backing vocals  और  `` live sounding '' performance  मिला  on the US single .
(  the   us  version  रै  more often  महरूम  used on reissue CDs , even  those  coming from Europe .  )
The single  सुविधाएँ  the sound of  the  Hammond B-3 organ .
the  Internet Movie  डेटाबेस  ( IMDb  )  is  an  online database of information related  to   films  , television programs , and video  खेल  .
This includes actors , production  क्रू   कर्मियों   ,   और   fictional  characters  प्रदर्शित  in  ये  three visual entertainment media .
it  is  एक  of the most popular  ऑनलाइन  entertainment  गंतव्यों  , with  over  100 million  अद्वितीय  users  प्रत्येक   माह  and a  ठोस  and rapidly  growing   मोबाईल  presence .
आईएमडीबी  was launched  on   अक्तूबर  17 ,  1990  ,  और  in 1998  थी  acquired by Amazon.com .
As of  अप्रैल  27 ,  2013  , IMDb had 2,503,783  शीर्षक  (  शामिल  episodes )  और   5,192,493  personalities  in   इसके  database  ,  as  खूब  as  43   लाख  registered users .
The website has an  एलेक्सा  rank of 48 .
Fibre Channel Host Bus  एडाप्टर   (  64-bit PCI-X card )
SCSI Host Bus Adapter ( 16-bit  isa   कार्ड  )
in  computer hardware  ,  a host controller  ,  host adapter , or host bus  एडाप्टर  (  hba  )  connects   a  host  प्रणाली  ( the computer ) to other  संजाल  and  भंडार   डिवाइस   .
The terms are primarily  प्रयुक्त  to refer  to   डिवाइस  for connecting SCSI , Fibre Channel  और  eSATA devices .
However  ,  devices for connecting to  आईडीई  , Ethernet ,  firewire   ,  USB  और   अन्य  systems may also be called  मेजबान   adapters  .
Recently  ,  the advent  of   iscsi  and Fibre Channel over Ethernet has brought  परिचय  Ethernet HBAs  ,  which  हैं  different from Ethernet NICs in that they  शामिल   टीसीपी  Offload Engines  .
वहीँ   हैं  also converged HBAs that support both Ethernet and  fibre  Channel  पुकारा  Converged  संजाल  Adapters ( CNAs  )  .
cashmere  Scarves
आधुनिक  men 's cashmere sweaters for sale .
Cashmere  ऊन  , usually simply known as cashmere  ,   is   a  fiber obtained  इससे  Cashmere  बकरियों  and other types of goat  .
the   शब्द  cashmere  गर्भाशयी   इससे  an old spelling of Kashmir  .
cashmere  is fine in texture , strong , light  ,  and soft  .
Garments made from it provide excellent insulation  .
In the  संयुक्त  States , under  the   u.s   .  Wool  उत्पाद   labeling   अधिनियम  of  1939  , as amended ,  (  15 Uction  68b   (  a  )  ( 6  )  ) , states that a  ऊन  or textile  उत्पाद   may  not  be  labeled as containing  cashmere   unless:
ऐसे  wool  उत्पाद   is  the fine ( dehaired  )   undercoat   मछली  produced  by  a cashmere goat ( Capra  hircus  laniger ) ;
the average diameter  of  the fiber of such  ऊन  product does  नहीं  exceed 19 microns ; and
such wool product does not contain  अधिक  than 3 percent (  by  weight ) of cashmere  मछली  with average  diameters   कि   exceed  30  माइक्रोन  .
The average fiber diameter  may   be  subject  to  a coefficient  of   विभिन्नता   around   the  mean that shall  नहीं  exceed 24 percent .
Jennifer  convertibles  Inc.  is   the  owner and licensor of sofabed and  चमड़े  specialty retail stores in the United  राज्य   ,  with  स्टोर्स  located throughout the Eastern  seaboard  , in the Midwest  ,  on the West  coast  and in  the  Southwest .
the   कम्पनी  was founded in  1975  and is based  in  Woodbury ,  नई  York .
on  July 19 , 2010 , the  कम्पनी  announced  कि  it had  दायर   लिये  bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial losses '' .
according   to  Furniture Today the  कम्पनी  was  क्रमांक  48 among furniture retailers with US  $   114  million in  बिक्री   लिये  the year  समाप्ति   अगस्त  29 ,  2009  .
It  subsequently  emerged from Chapter 11  अंतर्गत  the  कंट्रोल  of its  प्रमुख   प्रदायक   ,  the Haining Mengnu Group  .
Egg  फेंकें   is   a  term  प्रयुक्त  for many  अलग   भोजन   around   the  world .
2__Egg_roll  __  Varieties  of   अंडा  rolls are found  in  mainland  चीन   ,  many  chinese-speaking   regions  of Asia ,  और  Chinese  अप्रवासी  communities around the  संसार  .
Egg rolls  as  referred to in China  .
In Guangdong  और  Hong Kong , egg roll usually refers to  बिस्किट   फेंकें  .
This is  a   प्रकार  of biscuit  .
the   संघटक   शामिल  egg ,  आटा   और  sugar .
Egg roll also is  a  dish  in   कैण्टन  and  हांग   काँग  , this  is   प्रायः  made  साथ  vegetable .
Within China egg rolls are eaten  predominantly  in the southeast and are not as commonly consumed  in   the  north and  पश्चिमी   भाग  of China .
In  अमरीकी   चाइनीज  cuisine , an  अंडा  roll is  a   savory   डिश  typically  परोसा  as an  क्षुधावर्धक  .
It is usually stuffed with chicken ,  पोर्क  or shrimp  ,   गोभी  , carrots ,  टमाटर  , bean sprouts  और  other vegetables  ,  and then deep fried .
This variety of the egg  फेंकें  is very common and  लोकप्रिय  , across even regional varieties of American Chinese food  ,  and is  प्रायः  included as part of a ``  संयोजन  platter '' .
In Montreal  ,  Canada , open-ended eggrolls are a Jewish-Chinese fusion  डिश   .
They can  be   either  kosher certified or merely kosher style  .
पीड़ा  and suffering is the legal  पद   लिये  the physical and emotional stress caused from an injury ( see also pain  और  suffering ) .
Some damages that might  be  under this category would be :  aches  , temporary and  स्थाई  limitations on activity , potential shortening  of   जीवन  , depression or  scarring   .
When  दाखिल  a  मुकदमा  as a  परिणाम  of an injury  ,  it is common  लिये  someone to seek  धन  both in compensation for  वास्तविक   धन  that is lost and  लिये  the pain and stress  संबद्ध  with  वस्तुतः  any injury .
in   a  suit , pain and suffering is part of the  ``   सामान्य  damages '' section of the claimant 's  अर्जी   ,  or  ,  alternatively ,  it  is  an  element of ``  compensatory   ''   non-economic  damages that  allows  recovery for the mental anguish and/or physical pain endured by the  claimant  as a  परिणाम   of   चोट  for  जिससे   the  plaintiff seeks  परितोष  .
Apart from money damages awarded in trial , money damages are also given informally outside the  न्यायिक  system in mediations , arbitration ( both of which may be  अदालत   annexed  or  गैर   litigated  claims )  as  well  as  in  दिनचर्या  insurance settlements .
Individual claimants or those  represented  by  वकील  often  उपस्थित  demands to  insurers  to settle  लिये   धन   .
These  माँग  for  bodily  injury compensation monies often set out damages  कि  are  similarly  used  in  the court  litigated  pleadings  .
Demands  हैं  usually written  summaries  of  a  claimant  's  medical care and the facts  जिससे   resulted  in the injury .
Sample of a Medallion signature guarantee stampIn
the United  राज्य   और  Canada ,  a  medallion signature guarantee  is  a special  हस्ताक्षर  guarantee for the transfer of securities .
it   is  a guarantee by the transferring financial institution that the  हस्ताक्षर  is genuine and the financial institution accepts liability for any forgery  .
हस्ताक्षर  guarantees  protect   शेयरधारकों  by  preventing  unauthorized  हस्तांतरण  and possible  निवेशकों   नुकसान   .
They also limit  the  liability of the  ट्रांसफ़र  agent who  स्वीकृत  the  प्रमाणपत्र  .
Different  संस्थानों   have   अलग  policies as  to  what type of identification they require to provide the guarantee  और  whether they charge a fee for such  सेवा  ( usually nominal if any ) .
Most institutions will not guarantee a signature  of  someone  जो   रै  not  already  been their customer .
a  medallion  हस्ताक्षर  guarantee is not  the  same  as  an acknowledgment by a notary  पब्लिक  , in  the  sense that a `` signature  गारंटी  '' is  a   प्रमाणन   by  the  संस्था  that the signature is authentic  ,  and an  acknowledgment  is a certification  by  a notary public  attesting  that the signer signed a document voluntarily .
Some banks may no longer provide this  सेवा   ,  however ,  अनेक  still  do  as well as other financial  संस्थानों  such as a Savings and Loans  और   क्रेडिट  Unions .
at  their sole discretion , these institutions may still decline to provide  the  Medallion Signature  guarantees  .
When US  नागरिकों   हैं  abroad , some financial  संस्थानों  may accept  संयुक्त   राज्य  Embassy Seals , in  प्लेस   of   the  Medallion  हस्ताक्षर  Guarantee  स्टैम्प  .
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars stacked at a junkyard on  टर्मिनल  Island , Los Angeles County  ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , March 1956
The General  मोटर्स  streetcar conspiracy ( also known as  the  Great American streetcar  कांड  )  refers  to  दोषारोपण   और   convictions  in relation to a program  by   सामान्य  Motors ( GM  )  and other  कंपनियाँ  who purchased  और  then  dismantled  streetcar  और   इलेक्ट्रिक  train  प्रणालियों  in many  अमरीकी  cities  .
between  1936 and 1950 , National City Lines and Pacific City Lines —with investment from GM  ,   firestone  Tire  ,  Standard  आयल   of  California  ,  Phillips Petroleum , Mack  ट्रक   ,  and the Federal Engineering  corporation—bought   over   100   इलेक्ट्रिक  surface-traction systems in 45  शहरों  including Baltimore , Newark  ,  Los  एंजिल्स  , New York City , Oakland  और  San Diego and  परिवर्तित   उन्हें  into bus  आपरेशन  .
Several of the companies involved  यहूद   convicted  in  1949   of   षड्यंत्र   to  monopolize  अंतरराज्यीय   कॉमर्स  but were acquitted  of  conspiring to monopolize the  स्वामित्व  of  ये   कंपनियाँ  .
कुछ  suggest that this program played a key role in the decline of public transit in cities across the  संयुक्त  States ;  notably  Edwin J.  quinby   ,   जो  first drew attention  to   the  program in  1946  ,  और  then Bradford C. Snell , an anti-trust  attorney  for the United States Senate whose controversial 1974 testimony to a Senate inquiry brought  the  issue to national  जागरूकता  .
Both Quinby  और  Snell argued that the deliberate destruction  of  streetcars was  भाग   of   a  larger strategy to push the United States into automobile  निर्भरता   .
Others say that  स्वतंत्र   आर्थिक   कारकों  brought about changes  in  the transit system ,  सहित  the Great  अवसाद   ,   the   पब्लिक  Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 , labor  अशांति   ,  market forces , rapidly increasing traffic  जमघट  ,  शहरी   sprawl   ,  taxation policies  कि  favored private  गाडी   स्वामित्व   ,   और   सामान्य  enthusiasm for  the  automobile  .
एक   लेखक   on  the  विषय   रै   सुझाया  that Snell and others fell into simplistic conspiracy  सिद्धान्त  thinking  ,   bordering  on  paranoid  delusions saying ``  clearly   ,   gm  waged a war on  इलेक्ट्रिक  traction .
It was indeed an all out assault , but  by   no  means the single reason for the  विफलता  of rapid transit .
भी   ,  it is just as clear that actions  और  inactions by government contributed significantly to the  विलोपन  of  इलेक्ट्रिक  traction .  ''
Only a small handful of U.S.  शहरों   have  surviving effective  rail-based   शहरी  transport systems based on streetcars or trams  ,  including Newark , Philadelphia  ,   सैन  Francisco ,  पिट्सबर्ग  , and Boston  ;   अन्य   हैं  re-introducing them .
the  story has  महरूम  explored several times  in  print , film and other media , notably in Who  framed  Roger  खरगोश  , Taken for a Ride  और  The  समाप्त   of   suburbia  .
corwin  House  ,  Salem ,  मैसाचुसेट्स  , built  ca  . 1660 ,  पहला   काल   अंग्रेज़ी
American  औपनिवेशिक   वास्तुकला  includes several building design styles associated with  the  colonial period  of   the  United States  ,   सहित  First Period English ( late-medieval ) ,  फ्रेंच  Colonial , Spanish Colonial  ,   डच  Colonial  और  Georgian  .
ये  styles are associated with the houses  ,   चर्च  and  सरकारी  buildings of the period from about  1600  through the  19th   सदी  .
`` In the  मनोदशा  '' is a  बिग  band era # 1 hit recorded by American  bandleader  Glenn  मिलर  .
It  अव्वल  the charts in 1940  in   the  U.S.  और   एक   साल   बाद  was featured  in  the movie Sun  घाटी  Serenade .
In 1999 , National  पब्लिक  Radio ( NPR )  शामिल  the  1939  Glenn Miller recording  on   आरसीए  Bluebird on the NPR 100  ,  the list of  ``  The  100   सबसे   महत्वपूर्ण  American musical works of the  20th  century '' .
वरुण  logo
the   वरुण  Canada project is the  world’s  first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that  plugs  directly into the  अंतरजाल  .
Since  दिसम्बर  2009 ,  it  has  अनुमत   लोगों  to  ``  surf ''  the  seafloor while ocean scientists  चलाएं  deep-water  प्रयोग  from labs and universities around  the  world  .
साथ  with  इसके  sister  प्रोजेक्ट  , VENUS , NEPTUNE offers  a   अद्वितीय   दृष्टिकोण  to ocean science .
traditionally  ,  समंदर  scientists  have  relied  on   infrequent  ship cruises  or  space-based satellites to  carry  out their  शोध  ,  जबकि  the NEPTUNE project uses a  remotely  operated crawler  .
A gramophone  रिकार्ड  , commonly  ज्ञात  as a phonograph record  (  in  अमरीकी  English ) , vinyl  रिकार्ड  (  in  reference to vinyl , the material most  commonly   प्रयुक्त  after about 1950 ) , or colloquially , `` a record ''  ,   is   an  analog sound storage medium  consisting   of  a flat disc  साथ   an   inscribed  , modulated spiral groove .
the   नाली  usually starts near  the  periphery and ends  निकट   the  center of the disc .
Phonograph  रिकॉर्ड  are generally described  by   उनके  diameter in inches ( 12-inch ,  10-inch  ,  7-inch   ,  etc . ) ,  the   rotational  speed at  जिससे   वे   हैं   निभाई   (   ``  33 rpm `` ,  ``   78   ''  , ``  45  ''  ,  etc .  )   ,  their  समय  capacity  (   ``   long  playing ''  )  , their reproductive accuracy  ,   or  ``  वफ़ादारी   ``   (  `` high  वफ़ादारी   ''   ,   ``   orthophonic  ''  ,   ``   full-range  '' , etc .  )  ,  और  the number of  चैनल्स   of  audio provided  (  `` mono ``  ,   ``   स्टीरियो   ``  , `` quadraphonic  ``  , etc . ) .
Phonograph records were the  प्राथमिक  medium used for  म्यूज़िक   जनन  for most  of  the 20th  सदी  , replacing  the  phonograph cylinder  ,   साथ  which it  था  co-existed  ,  by the 1920s  .
by  the late 1980s , digital  मीडिया  had  gained  a larger  मार्केट  share  ,  and the  विनाइल   रिकार्ड   बाएँ  the  मुख्यधारा  in 1991 .
They continue to be manufactured  और  sold in  the   21st   सदी  .
In 2008 ,  nearly   2.9   लाख  units shipped , the most in any year since  1998  and the format has continued to slowly regain  लोकप्रियता  .
They are especially used by DJs and audiophiles  लिये  many types of music .
as  of  2013  ,  विनाइल  records continue  to  be used  लिये  distribution  .
Grassland  in  the Santa Rosa Plateau  ,  California .
Grassland in the  antelope  Valley , California
the  Konza tallgrass prairie in the  चकमक  Hills of northeastern Kansas  .
A grassland in the Philippines  .
an  Inner Mongolian grassland in  the  People 's Republic of  चीन
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation  is  dominated by grasses  (  Poaceae )  ,  however  sedge   (  Cyperaceae ) and  फटाफट   (  Juncaceae ) families  can  also be found  .
grasslands  occur naturally  on   सब   महाद्वीपों  except Antarctica .
In  शीतोष्ण   latitudes  , such as  northwestern  Europe and the Great Plains and  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  in North America , native grasslands are dominated by perennial bunch grass species , whereas  in   warmer   climates  annual  प्रजाति  form a greater component  of   the  vegetation .
Grasslands are found in most  ecoregions  of the Earth .
लिये   उदाहरण  there are five  स्थलीय  ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the  शीतोष्ण   grasslands  , savannas , and shrublands biome  (  ' ecosystem  '   )  , which  is  one of eight terrestrial ecozones  of   the   धरती   's  surface .
हिना  ( Lawsonia  inermis   ,  also called  हिना  tree ) or Hina is a flowering plant , the sole species in  the   genus   lawsonia  in  the  family Lythraceae .
The English name `` henna ''  आता  from  the   अरबी  ( ALA-LC :  ḥinnāʾ   /   सुनाया  ) or colloquially , loosely pronounced .
The name is  भी   प्रयुक्त   लिये  dye preparations derived from  the  plant  ,  and  लिये  the  आर्ट   of  temporary  गोदना  based on those dyes .
Henna  रै  been used  चूंकि  antiquity to dye skin ,  बाल  ,  और   fingernails  ,  as  well  as  fabrics including  रेशा   ,  wool and leather  .
Additionally , the  नाम  is misused  लिये   अन्य  skin  और  hair dyes , such  as   ब्लैक   हिना  or neutral  हिना   ,  which  हैं  not derived from the plant .
A thin  फिल्मी   is  a layer  of  material ranging from  भिन्नों   of  a nanometer  (  monolayer ) to  अनेक  micrometers in thickness .
Electronic semiconductor devices and optical  coatings   हैं  the main  अनुप्रयोग  benefiting  इससे  thin-film  निर्माण  .
A familiar application of thin films is  the  household  दर्पण  , which  typically  has a thin  मेटल   कोटिंग  on the back of a sheet of glass  to   रूप  a reflective  इंटरफ़ेस   .
The  प्रक्रम  of silvering was once commonly used to  उपज   mirrors   .
A  very-thin-film   कोटिंग  (  कम  than  a  nanometer thick ) is used to  उपज   two-way  mirrors  .
The performance  of   ऑप्टिकल  coatings  (  e.g . antireflective  ,  or  ar  ,  coatings  )  हैं   typically   उन्नत   जब  the  thin-film  coating  consists  of multiple  परतों  having varying  thicknesses   और  refractive  indices   .
Similarly , a periodic structure of alternating  पतला  films of different materials may  collectively   रूप  a so-called  superlattice  which exploits the phenomenon of quantum confinement  by  restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions .
Work is being done with  ferromagnetic  and ferroelectric  पतला  films for use as computer memory .
It is also being applied  to   दवाएँ  , via thin-film  ड्रग  delivery  .
Thin-films  हैं  used to produce thin-film batteries .
पतला  films are also used in  dye-sensitized  solar cells .
Ceramic  पतला  films are in wide use .
The relatively high  कठोरता  and inertness  of  ceramic  सामग्री  make this  प्रकार   of   पतला  coating of  ब्याज   लिये  protection of substrate materials against corrosion ,  ऑक्सीकरण  and wear .
In  particular   ,   the   उपयोग   of  such coatings on cutting tools can extend the life of  ये   वस्तुएं  by  अनेक  orders of magnitude .
शोध  is  होने   किया  on a  नई  class of thin-film  अकार्बनिक  oxide materials , called amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent  आक्साइड  , which could  be  used to make transparent transistors  कि  are inexpensive ,  stable   ,  and environmentally benign  .
गियर्स  of War is  a  military science fiction  third-person  shooter video game developed by  एपिक   खेल  and  प्रकाशित  by Microsoft Game  studios  .
It was initially released  as  an exclusive title for  the  Xbox 360  in  November  2005  in North  अमेरिका  ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया   ,  and most of Europe and included  a  ``  सीमित   कलेक्टर   's   संस्करण  ''  साथ  added content and an  आर्ट  book titled  नष्ट  Beauty that detailed  much  of the game 's back-story  .
Despite the  आरंभिक  statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity ,  a   microsoft   खिड़कियाँ   संस्करण  of  the  game  थी   विकसित  in  संयोजन  with People Can Fly and released a year later  ,  featuring  नई   सामग्री   सहित   अतिरिक्त   अभियान   स्तर  ,  a  new multiplayer  खेल  mode , and  खेल  for Windows Live functionality .
The game  focuses  on the troops of Delta Squad as they wield  a  desperate , last-ditch  attempt   to   सहेजें   the  remaining human inhabitants of the  fictional  planet  sera   इससे  a relentless and seemingly  अजेय  subterranean  दुश्मन  known as  the   टिड्डी  Horde .
The player assumes  the   भूमिका   of  Marcus Fenix (  लकिन  can also play  as   डोमिनिक  Santiago ) , a  पूर्व  prisoner  और  war-hardened soldier .
the  game is based on the  उपयोग  of cover and strategic fire for the  खिलाड़ी  to advance  through   the  scenarios ; a  दूसरी  player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to  assist   .
The  खेल   भी  features several online multiplayer  खेल  modes for  up  to eight players  .
Gears of War sold  over  three million copies in just  टेन  weeks and  थी  the fastest-selling video game  of  2005 as  खूब  as the second-most played game over Xbox Live during .
It currently  स्टैंड  as the 5th best selling Xbox 360  खेल   of   सब  time .
The game has since sold over five million copies by  सितंबर   2008  .
The game was well received by critics , who praised its gameplay and detailed visuals ,  और  it won  अनेक   ``   खेल   of  the Year  ''   पुरस्कार  in 2006  .
The  कामयाबी  of the game has led  to   the  development of the Gears of War  मताधिकार  , including the 2008 sequel Gears of War 2 and  इसके   follow-up   ,   गियर्स   of  War 3 , which was  released  on September  20  , 2011  ,  after  having  initially been set to have  महरूम   released  on April 5 ,  2011  , the date upon  जिससे  Epic Games  '  Cliff Bleszinski  थी  a guest on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon .
adaptations  to  किताबे   ,  comics , as  खूब   as  a  विशेषता  film are  to   be  expected .
a  Tree  grows  in Brooklyn is a 1943  अनोखा  written  by  Betty Smith  .
The story focuses on an Irish-American family  in  Williamsburg , Brooklyn  ,  New  यॉर्क  City .
the  novel  is  set in the first and  दूसरी  decades  of   the  20th century .
The  किताब  was  an   immense  success  .
The  प्रमुख   रूपक  of  the   किताब   is  the hardy Tree  of  Heaven , native to China  और  Taiwan  ,  now considered invasive  ,  and  आम   in   the  vacant  लोट  of  नई  York City .
संसार  map  साथ  the intertropical  मण्डल   highlighted   in  red .
तीव्र  climate  zones  of the Earth where all twelve  महीने   have  mean  temperatures  above 18  °c  (  64  °F ) .
The tropics  is  a  प्रदेश  of the Earth surrounding the  equator  .
It is limited in  अक्षांश  by the  tropic  of Cancer  in  the northern hemisphere at  लगभग  N and the Tropic of Capricorn  in   the  southern hemisphere at S  ;  these latitudes correspond  to  the axial tilt  of  the Earth  .
the  tropics are  भी  referred  to   as  the tropical zone and the torrid zone  (  see geographical zone ) .
the  tropics  शामिल  all  the  areas on the  धरती  where the Sun  पहुँच  a point  सीधे  overhead  at  least once during the solar year  .
the  tropics are distinguished  इससे  the other  climatic   और  biomatic regions  of  Earth , the middle latitudes and the  ध्रुवीय   regions  on either  पक्ष   of  the equatorial zone  .
For  the   inxs  song , see  कया  You Need  (   सोंग   )   .
``  कया  You Need '' is  an  episode of  the  American television anthology series The Twilight  मण्डल  .
It  is  based on the short story of the  वही  name by Lewis  padgett   (   हेनरी   kuttner  and C. L. Moore )  .
PlayhouseSquare , in the  क्लीवलैंड  Theater District in downtown Cleveland , Ohio , is the second-largest  थिएटर  complex in  the   संयुक्त  States , second only to New York City 's Lincoln Center ) .
constructed  in a span of 19 months in the  जल्दी  1920s ,  the  theaters were subsequently  बंद  down , but were revived  through  a  grassroots  effort .
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a  नई   era   of  downtown revitalization in  क्लीवलैंड   ,  and was  पुकारा   ``  one of  the   शीर्ष  ten  सफलताओं  in Cleveland history  .  ''
The driver  और   यात्री  front airbags  ,  after having been deployed , in  a  British Peugeot 306  car  .
An  एयरबैग  is a vehicle  सुरक्षा  device .
It is an occupant restraint  प्रणाली  consisting of a  लचीली  fabric  लिफाफा  or cushion designed to inflate rapidly during an automobile collision  .
Its  purpose  is  to  cushion occupants during  a  crash  और  provide protection to  उनके  bodies  जब  they  स्ट्राइक  interior objects such as the steering wheel  or  a window .
Modern vehicles may contain multiple airbag  मौड्यूल  in various  पक्ष   और  frontal locations of the passenger  seating   स्थितियाँ   ,  and sensors may  तैनात  one or  अधिक  airbags  in  an  प्रभाव   मण्डल  at variable rates based on the type ,  कोण  and severity  of   प्रभाव  ;  the  airbag  is  designed  to  only  inflate   in  moderate to severe frontal crashes  .
Airbags  हैं  normally  designed  with the intention of supplementing the protection of an  occupant  who is  correctly  restrained with a  seatbelt  .
सबसे   डिजाइन   हैं   inflated  through pyrotechnic means  और   can  only be  संचालित  once .
Newer side-impact airbag modules  consist  of  संपीडित  air  सिलेंडर  that are triggered in the  इवेंट  of a side  प्रभाव   गाडी   प्रभाव  .
The first commercial designs  यहूद  introduced in passenger automobiles  दौरान  the 1970s with limited success .
Broad  वाणिज्यिक   अपनाना   of  airbags occurred in many markets during the late 1980s and early  1990s  with a  ड्राइवर  airbag ,  और  a front passenger  एयरबैग   as  well on  कुछ  cars  ;  and many modern vehicles now include four or more  इकाई   .
irs  tax  फ़ॉर्म  are used for  करदाताओं  and tax-exempt organizations  to  report financial information to the  आतंरिक   आय   सेवा  ( IRS )  of  the United States .
वे  are used to  रपट   आय   ,   गणना   कर  to be paid  to   the  federal  सरकारी  of  the   संयुक्त  States  ,  and disclose other information as  जरूरी  by the Internal  आय  Code ( IRC ) .
There are over 800 various forms and schedules .
The best-known  of  these is Form 1040  प्रयुक्त  by  individuals  .
In the United States , driver  's   पंक्तियां  are  जारी   by  each  व्यक्तिगत  state ( including Washington , D.C.  और  territories ) ,  बल्कि  than  the  federal  सरकारी   क्युकी  of  the  political concept of federalism .
Drivers are normally required to obtain  a  license from their  राज्य  of residence and all states recognize each other 's  पंक्तियां  for temporary  विज़िटर  subject to  सामान्य   आयु  requirements .
A state may also suspend an individual 's driving privilege within its borders for  ट्रैफ़िक  violations  .
Many states  share  a  आम  system of  अनुज्ञा  classes  ,  with some  अपवाद  , and commercial license  वर्ग  are  मानकीकृत  by  संघीय   विनियमन   at  49 CFR part 383 .
China has  महरूम   the  source of many  आविष्कारों  , including the Four  ग्रेट  Inventions  :  papermaking , the compass , gunpowder , and printing ( both  woodblock  and  movable   प्रकार   )  .
The  सूची   नीचे   contains  these and other inventions  .
The Chinese invented technologies  involving  mechanics , hydraulics , and  गणित   लागू  to horology , metallurgy ,  खगोलशास्त्र  ,  कृषि  , engineering , music  सिद्धान्त  ,  craftsmanship  , nautics ,  और   warfare  .
by  the Warring States Period  (  403–221 BC  )  , they had advanced  metallurgic  technology , including  the  blast furnace and cupola furnace ,  जबकि  the finery forge  और   puddling  process were known by the Han  राजवंश  (  202   bc   –  AD 220 ) .
A sophisticated economic  प्रणाली  in China gave birth to inventions such as paper money during  the   सोंग  Dynasty  (   960–1279  )  .
The invention of gunpowder by the  10th   सदी   led  to  an  array of inventions such as  the  fire lance , land mine , naval  मेरा   ,  hand cannon , exploding cannonballs ,  multistage  rocket  ,  and rocket  बम  with aerodynamic  विंग्स  and  विस्फोटक  payloads  .
With the navigational  सहायता  of  the   11th-century   कम्पास  and ability  to  steer at  ऊँची   समुद्र  with  the  1st-century sternpost rudder ,  premodern  Chinese sailors sailed as far as East  अफ़्रीकी  and Egypt  .
In  water-powered   clockworks   ,   the  premodern  चाइनीज  had used the escapement mechanism since the 8th century and the endless power-transmitting chain  ड्राइव  in  the  11th century  .
They also made large mechanical puppet theaters driven by waterwheels and carriage wheels and wine-serving automatons  चलित  by paddle wheel  नौकाएँ  .
The contemporaneous Peiligang and Pengtoushan  संस्कृतियों   represent   the  oldest  पाषाणकालीन  cultures of China and were formed around  7000   bc  .
कुछ  of the first inventions of Neolithic ,  प्रागैतिहासिक  China  शामिल  semilunar and  आयताकार  stone  knives   ,  stone  hoes  and  हुकुम  , the cultivation of millet  ,  rice and the soybean  ,  the refinement  of  sericulture  ,   the   भवन  of  rammed  earth structures with  लाइम  -plastered  हाउस  floors ,  the  creation of the potter  's   व्हील   ,   the   सृष्टि  of pottery with cord-mat-basket designs ,  the  creation of pottery tripods and  pottery  steamers  ,  and the development  of  ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for  उद्देश्य   of  divination .
Francesca  ब्रे  argues that the domestication of the ox  और   भैंस  during the Longshan culture  (   c.  3000–c .  2000  BC  )  period  ,   the  absence of  longshan-era   सिंचाई  or high-yield  फसलों  , full evidence of Longshan cultivation of  dry-land   खाद्यान्न  crops which gave high  yields  `` only when the soil  थी   carefully  cultivated , '' suggest that  the  plow was known at  तनिक  by the  longshan  culture period and explains the high  agricultural  production  yields  which allowed the  वृद्धि  of Chinese  सभ्यता  during  the  Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c  .  1050 BC ) .
साथ  later  आविष्कारों  such as the multiple-tube  बीज   ड्रिल   और  heavy  moldboard  iron plow  ,  China 's agricultural  आउटपुट  could sustain  a   much   larger  population  .
For the purposes  of  this list , inventions are regarded as technological firsts developed in China , and as  ऐसे  does  नहीं  include foreign  technologies  which the Chinese  acquired  through contact  ,   ऐसे   as   the  windmill from  the   मध्य  East  or  the  दूरदर्शी  from Early modern Europe .
It  भी   करता   नहीं   शामिल  technologies developed elsewhere  और  later invented  separately  by  the   चाइनीज   ,  such as the  ओडोमीटर  and  कड़ी   पंप   .
Scientific , mathematic or  प्राकृतिक   discoveries  , changes in minor concepts of design  or   स्टाइल   और   कलाकारी  innovations can not be regarded as inventions and do not appear  on   the  list .
Gross domestic product in 2011  us  dollars per capita ,  समायोजित  for inflation and purchasing  शक्ति  parity ( log  स्केल  )  इससे   1860  to  2011  , with population ( disk  क्षेत्रफल   )  for the US ( yellow ) , UK  (  orange ) , Japan ( red ) , China (  रेड  ) , and  इण्डिया  ( blue ) .
वैश्वीकरण  ( or globalisation—see  स्पेलिंग  differences ) is the process of  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  integration arising from the  इंटरचेंज  of world views  ,  products , ideas , and other aspects of culture .
Put in simple terms , globalization refers  to   प्रक्रियाओं  that promote world-wide exchanges of national  और  cultural  संसाधन  .
Advances  in   परिवहन  and  दूरसंचार  infrastructure , including the  वृद्धि  of the Internet  ,  are major  कारकों   in  globalization , generating further interdependence of economic  और  cultural  क्रियाएँ  .
Though several scholars  प्लेस  the  origins  of globalization  in  modern times , others trace its history long before the European age of discovery  और   voyages  to the New World .
कुछ  even trace the origins to  the  third millennium BCE .
Since the beginning  of   the   20th  century ,  the  pace of globalization  रै   intensified   at  a rapid  रेट  ,  विशेषकर   दौरान  the Post Cold  युद्ध   era  .
The  पद  globalization has  महरूम  in increasing use since  the  mid-1980s and especially since  the   mid-1990s  .
In 2000  ,  the International Monetary Fund  (  IMF ) identified four basic aspects of globalization : trade  और  transactions , capital and  निवेश  movements ,  माइग्रेशन  and  गति  of  लोगों  and the  dissemination   of  knowledge .
Further ,  पर्यावरणीय  challenges such as climate  बदलें   ,  cross-boundary water  और  air pollution , and over-fishing of  the  ocean  हैं  linked with globalization  .
Globalizing  प्रक्रियाओं  affect and are affected by business  और   कार्य  organization ,  अर्थशास्त्र  , socio-cultural resources , and the natural environment  .
The Replacements is a 2000 American sports comedy film  निर्देशित  by Howard  deutch  .
It stars Keanu  रीव्स   ,  Gene Hackman  ,  and Brooke Langton  .
an  American Airlines aircraft takes  बंद  from Dallas/Fort Worth  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport .
इस   विमानक्षेत्र  is the airline  's  largest hub  .
American Airlines flies  to  79 domestic  गंतव्यों  and 78  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  destinations  in   48  countries  .
(   as  of December 2012 )
The  सूची   शामिल  the  नगर  ,  देश  , the codes of  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   एयर  Transport Association (  iata  airport  कोड  )  और   the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO  विमानक्षेत्र  code  )  ,  और  the airport 's name , with the airline 's hubs ,  फ़ोकस   शहरों  and seasonal  गंतव्यों   चिह्नित  .
The list also  contains   गंतव्यों  no longer served by the airline , which are marked as terminated destinations .
it   करता  not  शामिल  destinations served for American Airlines by its regional affiliates  अमरीकी  Eagle  एयरलाइंस  , Executive Airlines  ,   और  AmericanConnection .
``  Day-O ( The  banana  Boat  सोंग  ) ''  is  a traditional  jamaican   mento  folk  सोंग  ,  the  best-known version of which was  सुंग  by Harry Belafonte  और  an alternate  संस्करण  interspersed with  another  Jamaican folksong , Hill and  गुल्ली   सवार  , by  dame  Shirley  bassey   .
Despite  the  song  's   mento  influences , `` Day-O ( The Banana Boat  सोंग  ) '' is widely known as an  उदाहरण  of  कैलिप्सो   म्यूज़िक  .
it  is a  कार्य  song ,  इससे  the point  of  view of  डॉक   मजदूर   working  the night shift loading  केले  onto ships  .
Daylight  रै  come , the shift is over and they want  उनके  work to  be   गिने  up  so   कि  they can  go  home .
संसार  War  i  ( WWI ) was a global war  केंद्रित  in Europe that began on  28  July 1914  और  lasted  जबतक   11  November 1918 .
It was  predominantly  called  the  World War  or  the Great War from  इसके   occurrence   जबतक  the start  of  World  युद्ध  II in  1939  ,  और  the  पहला  World War  or  World War I  thereafter   .
It involved all the  संसार  's great powers  ,  which were  समवेत  in two opposing alliances  :  the Allies (  आधारित  on the Triple  entente  of the  संयुक्त  Kingdom  ,  France and Russia )  और   the  Central  शक्तियां  ( originally the  ट्रिपल  Alliance of Germany  ,   austria-hungary  and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken  the  offensive against the agreement , Italy did  नहीं  enter  into  the war  )   .
ये  alliances were both reorganised and  विस्तारित  as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and  the   उस्मानी  Empire and  बुल्गारिया  the Central Powers  .
ultimately   ,  more  than  70 million military personnel , including 60 million Europeans  ,   यहूद  mobilised in  एक   of  the  largest  wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants  यहूद  killed ,  largely  because of  technological  advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality  of  weapons without corresponding improvements  in  protection or  गतिशीलता  .
it  was the fifth- deadliest  विरोध  in  संसार  history , subsequently paving the way for  विभिन्न  political changes , such as  revolutions  in many of the nations involved  .
One  of   the  long-term causes of the war was  the  resurgence of imperialism  in   the  foreign  नीतियों  of the great  शक्तियां  of  यूरोपीय   .
अधिक  immediately , the  हत्या   of   archduke   फ्रांज   फर्डिनेंड  of Austria  ,  the heir to  the   सिंहासन   of  Austria-Hungary  ,  on 28  जून   1914  by  यूगोस्लाव  nationalist Gavrilo  princip  in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when  austria-hungary  subsequently  वितरित  an  ultimatum   to  the Kingdom of Serbia .
अनेक  alliances formed over the  पिछला  decades were invoked  .
भीतर  weeks ,  the  major powers were at war and  ,   via  their  colonies  , the conflict soon  स्प्रेड  around the world .
on  28  जुलाई  , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of  the  war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia  .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans  invaded   न्यूट्रल  Belgium and Luxembourg  on   the  way to  फ़्रांस  , providing a casus  belli  for Britain 's declaration of war  विरूद्ध  Germany .
बाद  the German  कूच   on  Paris was  brought  to a halt—the so-called Miracle  of  the Marne  —the  Western Front settled into a static battle of  अपघर्षण  with a  गर्त   लकीर  that changed little until  1917  .
On the Eastern Front , the  रूसी  army was successful  विरूद्ध   the   austro-hungarians  , but was stopped in its  आक्रमण   of  East Prussia  by   the  Germans .
in   नवम्बर   the  Ottoman Empire joined the  युद्ध  , opening up fronts in the  काकेशस   ,  Mesopotamia  और  the Sinai .
Italy and  बुल्गारिया  went to war  in  1915 and Romania in 1916 .
in  Russia , the tsar 's  सरकारी  collapsed  in  March 1917 and a  subsequent  revolution in November  brought   the   russians   to   शर्तें  with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German  अप्रिय  along the western  सामने  , the  allies  drove back the Germans in  a   श्रेणी  of  कामयाब   offensives  and  अमरीकी   शक्तियां  began entering  the   trenches  .
Germany , which had its  अपना  trouble with  क्रांतिकारियों   ,  agreed to  an  armistice on 11 November 1918  .
the   युद्ध  ended in victory  लिये   the  Allies  .
Events  on  the  घर   fronts   यहूद   as   उग्र  as  on  the battle fronts  ,  as the participants tried to  mobilize  their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the  समाप्त  of  the  war  ,  four  प्रमुख   इम्पीरियल  powers—the German  ,  Russian ,  austro-hungarian  and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states  of  the former two  खोया   a  great amount of territory ,  जबकि   the   latter  two  यहूद  dismantled entirely .
The map of central Europe  थी  redrawn into  अनेक  smaller  राज्य  .
The  लीग  of Nations was formed in  the  hope of preventing another such  विरोध   .
the   यूरोपीय  nationalism spawned  by  the war  और  the breakup  of   empires   ,  the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems  साथ   the  Treaty of  versailles  are agreed to  be  factors contributing to World War  ii  .
Nurse Jackie is  an  American series that premiered  on  June 8  ,   2009  , on Showtime , Movie  सेंट्रल  and The Movie Network .
The  श्रेणी  stars Edie Falco as  the  title character Jackie Peyton , an  आपात   विभाग  nurse at All  संतो   '  Hospital in New York  नगर  .
For  जैकी  ,  ``   प्रत्येक   दिन  is a  ऊँची   तार   अधिनियम  of juggling patients  ,  doctors  ,  fellow nurses  और   उसके   अपना  indiscretions . ''
keeping   up  with the Kardashians (  प्रायः  referred to simply  as  The  kardashians   )  is an American reality television series  कि  premiered  on  October 14 ,  2007  , on E  !  .
it  follows the lives of the Kardashian/Jenner family , including sisters Kourtney  ,  Kim  ,  and Khloé Kardashian  .
the   श्रेणी   '   कामयाबी  has led to  the   spin-offs  Kourtney and  किम  Take  नई  York  ,  Khloé & Lamar ,  कोर्टनी  and  khloé  Take Miami , and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami .
अफगानिस्तान   (  ; ; ) , officially  the   इस्लामी  Republic  of  Afghanistan  ,   is   a  landlocked sovereign state forming  भाग  of  दक्षिण   एशिया  , Central Asia ,  और   to  some extent Western Asia .
It  रै  a population  of  around 30  लाख  inhabiting an  क्षेत्रफल  of approximately ,  बनाना   it  the  42nd  most populous and  41st  largest nation in the world  .
It is bordered by Pakistan in the south and  the  east , Iran in  the  west , Turkmenistan , Uzbekistan and  ताजिकिस्तान  in  the   उत्तर   ,  and China in the far northeast .
Afghanistan has been  an   प्राचीन   फोकल  point of the  रेशा  Road and  इंसान  migration .
archaeologists  have  मिला   प्रमाण   of   इंसान  habitation  इससे  as far back  as  the Middle  paleolithic  .
शहरी  civilization may have begun in the area as early  as   3,000  to  2,000  BCE .
बैठे  at an important geostrategic location that  connects  the Middle  ईस्ट  culture with  सेंट्रल  Asia and the  भारतीय   उपमहाद्वीप  ,  the  land has been home to various peoples  through  the  आयु   और   witnessed  many military  अभियान   ,  notably  by   सिकंदर  the Great  ,  Genghis Khan , and in modern era Western forces .
the  land also served as  a   सोर्स   इससे  which  the  Greco-Bactrians  ,  Kushans , Hephthalites  ,  Saffarids ,  ghaznavids  ,  ghorids  , Khiljis ,  timurids  ,  मुगलों  , Durranis ,  और  others  have  risen  to  form major empires  .
the  political  इतिहास   of  the modern state  of  Afghanistan begins in 1709 , when the  hotaki   राजवंश   थी  established  in  Kandahar followed by  अहमद   शाह  Durrani 's rise to power  in  1747 .
in  the late 19th century  ,  Afghanistan became a buffer  राज्य   in  the ``  ग्रेट  Game ``  between  the British and Russian empires .
following  the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War , King Amanullah began a European style modernization of the country but was stopped by the ultra-conservatives  .
During the  ठंडा  War ,  बाद   the  withdrawal of the  अंग्रेजों   इससे  neighboring India in  1947   ,  the  संयुक्त  States and  the  Soviet Union began  spreading  influences in Afghanistan , which led to a  खूनी  war between the US-backed mujahideen forces and  the  Soviet-backed Afghan government  in  which  over   a   लाख   afghans  lost their  जीवनदान  .
This was followed by  the  1990s civil  युद्ध  , the  वृद्धि  and fall  of  the extremist Taliban government and the 2001–present war .
In December 2001 ,  the  United Nations Security Council authorized the creation of the International Security  सहायता  Force ( ISAF ) to help  maintain  security in Afghanistan  और  assist the Karzai  प्रशासन  .
तीन   दशकों  of  युद्ध  made Afghanistan one of the world 's  सबसे  dangerous countries , including  the   largest  producer  of   शरणार्थियों  and asylum  जरुरतमंदों  .
जबकि  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  community is  पुनर्निर्माण  war-torn Afghanistan  ,  terrorist  समूह  such as the Haqqani Network and Hezbi Islami are actively  शामिल  in  a  nationwide Taliban  -led  insurgency ,  जिससे  includes hundreds of assassinations  और  suicide attacks .
According to the United  राष्ट्र  , the insurgents were responsible for 80  %   of   civilian  casualties in  2011  and 2012 .
The American Civil War  (  ACW ) , also known  as  the  युद्ध  between  the  States or simply the Civil  युद्ध  ( see naming )  ,  was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865  between   the  United States  (   the   ``   संघ  '' or  the   ``  North '' ) and several Southern slave  राज्य  that declared  उनके  secession and  formed  the Confederate States of America ( the ``  confederacy  ''  or  the `` South  ''  ) .
the  war  था  its origin in the issue of  गुलामी  , especially the extension of slavery into the western territories  .
Foreign powers did not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over  600,000  soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure  ,  the  confederacy  collapsed , slavery was abolished  ,  and the difficult Reconstruction  प्रक्रम  of restoring national unity and  guaranteeing  rights  to  the freed slaves began  .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans  ,  led by Abraham  lincoln  , opposed expanding slavery into United States '  territories  .
Lincoln won , but before his  उद्घाटन   on  March 4 , 1861  ,  seven cotton-based slave states formed  the  Confederacy  .
outgoing  Democratic  अध्यक्ष  James Buchanan  और  the incoming  republicans  rejected secession  as  illegal .
lincoln  's  inaugural  address declared his  प्रशासन  would not initiate  सिविल   युद्ध  .
Eight remaining slave  राज्य  continued  to   अस्वीकृत   काल्स   लिये   secession   .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within  territory   claimed  by the Confederacy .
A Peace  सम्मेलन  failed to find a compromise , and both sides  prepared  for  युद्ध  .
The Confederates assumed that European  देशों  were so  निर्भर  on ``  किंग  Cotton `` that  वे  would  intervene   ;  none did and none recognized  the  new Confederate States  of   अमेरिका  .
Hostilities began on April 12  ,  1861 ,  जब  Confederate forces fired upon  फोर्ट  Sumter  ,   a   कुंजी  fort  आयोजित  by  संघ   सैनिकों  in South Carolina .
lincoln   पुकारा   लिये  each state to provide troops to  retake  the fort ;  नतीजतन  , four more slave  राज्य  joined  the   confederacy  , bringing  उनके  total  to   ग्यारह  .
The Union  जल्द  controlled the border  राज्य  and established a naval blockade that  अबोध   the  southern  अर्थव्यवस्था  .
the  Eastern  थिएटर  was inconclusive in 1861–62 .
the  autumn 1862  confederate  campaign into  मेरीलैंड   (  a Union state  )  ended with Confederate  रिट्रीट  at  the  Battle of Antietam  ,  dissuading  अंग्रेजों   हस्तक्षेप  .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation ,  जिससे  made  समाप्ति  slavery a war goal  .
To the  वेस्ट  , by  गर्मियाँ  1862  the  Union  नष्ट  the Confederate  नदी  navy , then much of their western  सेना  , and  the  Union at Vicksburg split  the   confederacy  in two  at   the  Mississippi River  .
In  1863  , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the  बैटल  of Gettysburg .
पश्चिमी  successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command  of  all  संघ   सेना   in   1864  .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to  कैप्चर   अटलांटा  and  marched   to  the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure  साथ  the way .
The Union marshaled  the  resources and  जनशक्ति   to  attack the Confederacy from  सब  directions ,  और   could  afford  to  fight  लड़ाइयों  of  अपघर्षण   through   the  Overland Campaign  towards  Richmond , the  confederate  capital .
The defending Confederate  फौज  failed , leading  to  Lee 's surrender  to   ग्रान्ट  at  appomattox  Court House  on  April 9 , 1865 .
the   अमरीकी   सिविल   युद्ध   थी  one of the earliest true  औद्योगिक  wars  .
Railroads ,  the  telegraph , steamships  ,  and mass-produced  हथियार   यहूद  employed  extensively  .
The mobilization  of   civilian   कारखानों  , mines ,  shipyards  ,  बैंको   ,  transportation and  खाना  supplies  सब  foreshadowed World War I  .
it  remains  the  deadliest war in  अमरीकी   इतिहास   ,  resulting in the deaths of an estimated  750,000   सैनिको  and  an   undetermined   क्रमांक  of  civilian   हताहत  .
Historian John Huddleston  estimates  the  मौत  toll at ten percent of all Northern  males   20–45  years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white  males  aged 18–40 .
Cost  of  goods  बेची   (  COGS )  refer  to  the  inventory costs of those goods a  कारोबार  has sold during a particular period .
Costs  हैं   संबद्ध   साथ  particular goods using one of several formulas  ,   सहित  specific  पहचान  , first-in first-out ( FIFO  )   ,  or average cost  .
Costs include all  लागत  of purchase , costs  of  conversion and other costs  incurred   in   bringing   the  inventories to  उनके  present  स्थान  and  कंडीशन  .
Costs of goods made by the business  शामिल  material , labor , and allocated overhead .
the  costs of those goods  नहीं   yet  sold are  deferred  as costs of inventory until the inventory  is  sold or  लिखा  down  in   मान  .
freak  Lunchbox candy store in Halifax , Nova Scotia
A confectionery store  (   अधिक  commonly referred to as a sweet shop in the United Kingdom ,  a  candy store in the  उत्तर  America ,  or   a  lolly  दूकान  in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  )  बिकता  confectionery and is usually targeted  to  children  .
सबसे  confectionery stores are filled with an  assortment  of sweets far  larger  than a  पंसारी  or convenience store could  accommodate  .
वे  often offer a selection  of  old fashioned  ट्रीट   ,   और  sweets from different countries  .
बहुत  often unchanged in layout  चूंकि  their  inception   ,  confectioneries  हैं   ज्ञात  for their warming and  उदासीन   महसूस   .
The village of Pateley  सेतु  claims to have  the  oldest confectionery store in England  .
The oldest sweet shop in England , in the village of Pateley Bridge
ओक्लाहोमा   (  ) (  pawnee  :  uukuhuúwa  , Cayuga :  gahnawiyoˀgeh  ) is a state located in  वेस्ट  South Central United States  .
Oklahoma is the 20th most  extensive  and the 28th most populous  of  the 50  संयुक्त  States  .
The state 's name is derived  इससे  the  choctaw   शब्द  okla and humma , meaning `` red people '' ,  और   it  is  ज्ञात  informally  by  its nickname  ,   the  Sooner State  .
Formed by  the  combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory on  नवम्बर  16 , 1907  ,  Oklahoma  थी  the  46th   राज्य  to  डालें   the  union .
Its  निवासियों   हैं  known as Oklahomans or ,  informally   ``   okies  '' ,  और  its  पूंजी   और  largest  नगर  is Oklahoma City  .
a   प्रमुख  producer  of   प्राकृतिक   गैस  , oil , and agriculture ,  ओक्लाहोमा  relies on an economic  आधार   of  aviation  ,  energy , telecommunications  ,  and biotechnology  .
it   रै  one of the fastest  growing  economies in the  स्वदेश  , ranking  among   the  top states in per capita  आय  growth  और  gross  घरेलू   उत्पाद   विकास  .
ओक्लाहोमा  City  और   तुलसा  serve as  ओक्लाहोमा   's  primary economic anchors  ,   साथ  nearly two  तिहाई  of Oklahomans living  भीतर   उनके  metropolitan statistical  क्षेत्रों   .
With small mountain ranges , prairie  ,  mesas , and  पूर्वी  forests ,  सबसे  of Oklahoma lies  in   the   ग्रेट  Plains  और   the  U.S . Interior Highlands —a region especially prone  to  severe weather .
In addition  to  having a  व्यापकता  of English ,  जर्मनी  , Scottish , Irish and Native American ancestry  ,  more than 25 Native  अमरीकी   भाषाएं   हैं   बोला  in Oklahoma  ,  second only  to  California  .
ओक्लाहोमा  is located  on  a  संगम   of  three major American cultural  regions   और  historically  परोसा  as a route for cattle  ड्राइव  ,  a  destination  लिये   दक्षिणी   settlers   ,  and a  government-sanctioned  territory  लिये  Native Americans  .
Stacked  और  standing car  टायर
A tire ( or tyre ) is  a  ring-shaped  covering  that fits around a wheel  's  rim to protect it and enable better  गाडी   प्रदर्शन  .
Most tires  ,   ऐसे   as  those for automobiles and bicycles  ,   provide  traction  between  the vehicle and the road while providing a flexible cushion that absorbs shock  .
the   सामग्री  of modern pneumatic tires are  सिंथेटिक  rubber  ,  natural rubber , fabric and wire , along with  कार्बन   ब्लैक  and other chemical  यौगिकों  .
वे  consist of a tread and a body  .
the   tread  provides traction while the body provides containment for a quantity of compressed air .
Before rubber was developed , the first versions of  टायर  were simply bands of metal  कि  fitted  around  wooden wheels to prevent wear and  आंसू   .
Early rubber tires were solid ( not pneumatic  )  .
आज  , the  बहुमत  of tires are pneumatic inflatable  structures  , comprising a doughnut-shaped body  of   रस्सियाँ  and  wires  encased in  रबर  and generally filled with compressed air to  रूप  an  inflatable  cushion .
न्यूमेटिक  tires are  प्रयुक्त  on  अनेक  types  of  vehicles , including  गाड़ियाँ  , bicycles , motorcycles , trucks , earthmovers ,  और   वायुयान  .
Metal tires are still  प्रयुक्त   on  locomotives and railcars , and solid rubber (  or  other polymer )  टायर   हैं   स्टिल   प्रयुक्त  in various non-automotive  अनुप्रयोग   ,  such as  कुछ  casters ,  कार्ट  , lawnmowers ,  और  wheelbarrows .
Dr.  जोसेफ   वारेन   (   जून  11 , 1741 – June 17  ,  1775 ) was an American doctor who played a leading role in American  patriot  organizations  in   बोस्टन   in  early days  of   the  American  क्रान्ति  ,  आखिरकार  serving as president  of  the  क्रांतिकारी  Massachusetts Provincial Congress .
Warren  आयोजिक   पॉल  Revere and William Dawes on  अप्रैल  18 , 1775 ,  to   छोड़  Boston and  स्प्रेड   the  alarm that the British garrison in Boston was  सेटिंग  out  to  raid the town  of  Concord and arrest rebel leaders John Hancock and Samuel Adams .
Warren  participated   in   the  next day 's  लड़ाइयों   of  Lexington and Concord , which  हैं  commonly  माना  to be the opening  engagements  of the American  क्रांतिकारी  War .
वारेन   था  been commissioned a  प्रमुख  General  in  the colony  's  militia shortly before  the  June 17 , 1775 Battle of Bunker Hill .
बल्कि   than  exercising his rank ,  वारेन  served in the  बैटल  as a private  सिपाही  , and was killed  in  combat  जब   अंग्रेजों   सैनिकों  stormed the redoubt atop  नस्ल  's  हिल  .
His death  ,   immortalized   in  John  trumbull   's  painting  ,  The Death  of  General Warren at  the  Battle of  बंकर  's Hill , June 17  ,   1775  , galvanized  the  rebel  शक्तियां  , and he  रै  been memorialized  in  many place names in the United States .
stm  image of self-assembled supramolecular  जंजीरों  of the  सशुल्क  semiconductor Quinacridone  on   ग्रेफाइट  .
An organic semiconductor is  an  organic material with  सेमीकंडक्टर  properties  ,  that is  ,  with  an  electrical conductivity  between  that of insulators and that  of  metals  .
Single  अणुओं  , short chain ( oligomers ) and  सशुल्क  polymers can  be  semiconductive  .
Semiconducting small molecules ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) include the polycyclic aromatic  यौगिकों  pentacene ,  anthracene  , and rubrene  .
Polymeric  सशुल्क  semiconductors include poly ( 3-hexylthiophene  )  , poly ( p-phenylene vinylene ) , as well  as  polyacetylene and its derivatives  .
वहीँ  are two  प्रमुख  overlapping classes  of  organic  semiconductors  .
ये  are  सशुल्क   charge-transfer  complexes  और   विभिन्न  linear-backbone conductive  polymers  derived from polyacetylene .
Linear backbone  सशुल्क   semiconductors   शामिल   polyacetylene   itself  and its derivatives polypyrrole , and  polyaniline  .
at  least locally  ,   charge-transfer  complexes often exhibit similar conduction mechanisms to  अकार्बनिक  semiconductors .
Such mechanisms arise from the  उपस्थिति  of hole  और  electron conduction  परतों  separated by a band gap .
While such classic mechanisms  हैं  important  locally   ,   as   साथ  inorganic amorphous semiconductors ,  tunnelling  , localized states , mobility gaps  ,  and  phonon  -assisted  hopping  also significantly  योगदान  to conduction ,  विशेषकर   in   polyacetylenes   .
जैसे   अकार्बनिक  semiconductors  ,  organic semiconductors  can  be doped  .
Organic  semiconductors  susceptible  to  doping  ऐसे  as polyaniline  (  Ormecon  )   और   हैं  also known as organic metals .
Typical current  वाहक  in  सशुल्क  semiconductors  हैं   छेद  and electrons in  π-bonds  .
Almost  सब  organic  solids  are  insulators  .
But  जब  their  constituent  molecules  have   π-conjugate   प्रणालियों  , electrons can  मूव   via   π-electron  cloud overlaps , especially by hopping  ,  tunnelling and related  mechanisms   .
polycyclic  aromatic  hydrocarbons  and  phthalocyanine  salt  crystals  are  उदाहरण  of this type  of  organic semiconductor  .
Mainly due to low mobility , even unpaired electrons may  be  stable  in  charge-transfer  देवालय   .
Such unpaired electrons can function as current  वाहक  .
This type of  सेमीकंडक्टर   is   भी   प्राप्त  by pairing  an   इलेक्ट्रॉन  donor molecule with an  इलेक्ट्रॉन   acceptor  molecule .
Female  स्खलन  is the  expulsion  of  द्रव  by human  महिलाओं   इससे   the  paraurethral  नलिकाएं   through   और  around the  मादा  urethra during or  पहले  an  orgasm   .
It  is  also known colloquially as gushing or  squirting   ,  although these are considered  to  be different phenomena  in  some research publications .
the   सटीक   सोर्स  and nature of the fluid continue to be  a  topic of debate among medical professionals , which is also  सम्बन्धित  to  संदेह  over the existence of  the   g-spot  .
The FIFA Women 's World Cup  is  an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   संघ   फ़ुटबॉल  competition contested  by  the senior women  's   नेशनल  teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de  फ़ुटबॉल   संघ   (   फीफा  )  ,   the  sport 's global  शासी  body .
The championship has been  awarded  every  चार  years  चूंकि  the inaugural  टूर्नामेंट  in 1991 .
जापानी  won the 2011  टूर्नामेंट   in  a  दंड  shootout .
the  current format of the tournament  involves   16   टीमों  competing for  the  title at  venues  within the  मेजबान   स्वदेश  (  s   )   over   a  period of  परिचय   तीन   सप्ताह  ; – this phase is often called the World Cup  फाइनल  .
A qualification phase  ,  which  फिलहाल  takes place  over  the preceding three  सालो  ,  is  used to determine which  टीमों  qualify  लिये  the tournament together with  the  host nation ( s ) .
The FIFA Women 's  संसार   कप   is  recognized as the most important International competition in women 's  फ़ुटबॉल  and is  निभाई  amongst women 's national  फ़ुटबॉल  teams of the  सदस्य  states of FIFA ,  the   खेल   's   वैश्विक  governing  देह   .
The  पहला   महिलाओं  's World Cup tournament  ,  named the  महिलाओं  's World Championship ,  थी   आयोजित  in  1991  ,  sixty-one  years after the men  's  first  फीफा   संसार   कप  tournament in 1930  .
The six World Cup tournaments have been  जीती  by  चार  different national teams  .
The next World  कप  will be hosted by Canada in 2015 .
Scorpions is a young adult  अनोखा  written by Walter  डीन   मायर्स  ,  पहला  published  in   the   संयुक्त  States  by  Harper &  पंक्ति   on  June 20 , 1988 .
Front page of a 17th  सदी   यहूदी  Bible by Joseph Athias , now  at  Beth  hatefutsoth  , Israel
'son  of man  '  is the translation of  विभिन्न   यहूदी   और  Greek phrases  प्रयुक्त  in both  the   यहूदी  Bible  और  the  नई   वसीयत  .
It has diverse  meanings  ,  ranging  from a normal  इंसान   होने  to  a  prophesied eternal ,  दैवी  ruler .
The  यहूदी   अभिव्यक्ति  ``  बेटे  of  man  '' ( בן–אדם i.e . ben-'adam ) appears  एक  hundred and seven  टाइम्स   in  the  यहूदी  Bible .
This  is   the  most  आम  Hebrew  निर्माण   लिये  the singular  लकिन  is used mostly in Ezekiel  (  93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere .
In  तीस  two cases the phrase  appears  in  इंटरमीडिएट   बहुवचन   रूप  ``  बेटे  of men ''  ,  i.e .  इंसान  beings  .
as  generally interpreted by Jews  ,  it  denotes  humankind generally  .
in  the Koine Greek of the New Testament , `` the son of man '' is invariably used  as  ``  ὁ  υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with  a   definite  article .
the  use  of  the  definite  article  in  `` the son of man '' in the Christian gospels  is  novel , and before its  उपयोग  there  ,  no  रिकॉर्ड  of its use in  कोई  of  the  surviving Greek documents  of  antiquity exist  .
Geza Vermes has  stated  that ``  the  Son of man '' in the Christian gospels is unrelated to Hebrew Bible usages .
in  Christian usage , unlike  the   बेटे   of  God  शीर्षक   ,  which has  महरूम  an essential  तत्व  of Christian  creeds  since the  अपोस्टोलिक   आयु  , the proclamation of  ``   यीशु   as  the  बेटे  of  man  '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity  .
The interpretation  of  the use  of   ``  the Son of  man   ''  in the  नई  Testament has remained  चुनौतीपूर्ण  and after  150   सालो   of   बहस  no consensus  on   the   समस्या   रै  emerged among scholars .
Master of  foxhounds  leads the  फ़ील्ड  from  powderham   किला  in Devon  ,  England , with the hounds in  सामने  .
Fox  शिकार   is  an  कार्यकलाप  involving  the   ट्रैकिंग  , chase , and  sometimes  killing of a fox  ,  traditionally  a  red fox , by  प्रशिक्षित  foxhounds or other  सैंट  hounds , and  a   समूह  of  निहत्थे  followers led by a  निपुण  of foxhounds ,  जो   follow  the  hounds   on   पैर  or  on  horseback .
Fox hunting originated in  the   रूप  practised  जबतक  recently in  the  United  किंगडम  in the  16th  century , but is practised all  over   the   संसार  , including in Australia ,  कनाडा  , France  ,  Ireland  ,   इटली  and  the   संयुक्त  States  .
In Australia ,  the  term also refers  to  the  शिकार  of  foxes  with firearms similar to spotlighting  or  deer hunting .
In much of the world  शिकार  in  सामान्य   is  understood to  सुनाना  to any game animals or weapons  (   e.g.   ,   हिरण  hunting with bow  और   तीर  ) ; in  ब्रिटेन  and Ireland ,  ``  hunting '' without qualification  implies  fox hunting (  or   अन्य  forms of hunting with hounds- beagling ,  स्टैग  hunting , mink hunting  ,  drag hunting  or  hunting the  साफ  boot ) as  वर्णित  here .
The sport is controversial , particularly in the UK  ,  where  it  was banned in  स्कॉटलैंड  in  2002  , and in England and Wales in  नवम्बर  2004 ( law enforced from  फ़रवरी  2005 )  ,  though  शूटिंग   foxes  as vermin  remained  legal .
Proponents of  फॉक्स   शिकार  view  it  as an  महत्वपूर्ण  part of rural  संस्कृति  and useful for reasons  of  conservation and pest control  ,  while opponents  argue  that it is cruel and  अनावश्यक  .
तम्बाकू   विज्ञापन  is  the  advertising of tobacco products or use (  typically  cigarette smoking )  by  the tobacco industry  through   a  variety  of  media including sponsorship ,  विशेषकर  of sporting events .
It is now one of the  सबसे  highly  regulated   फ़ॉर्म  of marketing  .
Some or all forms  of  tobacco advertising are  बैन  in many countries  .
Bally Technologies ,  inc.   is  a manufacturer  of  slot machines  और   अन्य  gaming technology based  in   लास  Vegas  ,  Nevada .
The company was  संस्थापित  in 1968 as Advanced  पेटेंट  Technology .
it  eventually changed  इसके  name to Alliance  गेमिंग  and  acquired  , in 1996 , Bally  गेमिंग  International , a former  प्रभाग  of Bally Manufacturing .
In  2006  , the entire company adopted  the  Bally  नाम  , a  ट्रेडमार्क  that originated  in   1932   by  the Bally Manufacturing Corporation .
gustave   doré   's   engravings  illustrated the Divine Comedy ( 1861–1868 )  ;   यहाँ  ,  दांते  is lost in Canto 1 of the  inferno  .
Inferno (  इतालवी   लिये   ``  Hell ``  )  is the  पहला   भाग  of  दांते  Alighieri 's 14th-century epic poem Divine  कॉमेडी  .
it  is  followed  by Purgatorio  और  Paradiso .
It is  an   allegory   telling  of the journey of  दांते  through Hell , guided by the Roman poet  वर्जिल   .
In the poem  ,  Hell  is  depicted as nine circles of suffering located within the Earth .
Allegorically ,  the  Divine Comedy represents  the  journey of the  आत्मा  towards God  ,  with the Inferno describing the recognition and rejection of sin .
Smirnoff  is  a brand of  वोदका  owned  और   उत्पादित  by the British company Diageo  .
The  स्मरनॉफ  brand  began  with a vodka distillery founded in  मास्को  by Pyotr  arsenievich  Smirnov  (  1831–1898  )  .
it  is now distributed  in  130 countries .
it  is produced  in  several countries including India , Ireland , Italy  ,  the  संयुक्त   किंगडम   और   the  United States .
Smirnoff products include vodka ,  flavoured  vodka ,  और  malt  पेय   .
In March 2006 , Diageo North  अमेरिका  claimed that Smirnoff vodka was the best-selling  आसुत   स्पिरिट  brand in the world .
Big Brown ( foaled April  10  ,  2005   in   केंटकी  ) is  a  retired champion American Thoroughbred racehorse  और  winner  of  the 2008 Kentucky Derby  और  2008 Preakness Stakes .
Bred by Dr. Gary B. Knapp 's  monticule   खेतो  in  lexington  , Kentucky , he  जीती  his first five race starts  .
He was sired by Grade  iii   विजेता  Boundary , a son  of  North American Champion sire Danzig  ,  a son  of   उत्तरी   नर्तकी  .
Big Brown 's dam was Mien , also a  पोती  of  उत्तरी  Dancer  through   उसके  sire ,  nureyev  .
The  serenity   दुआ   is   the   आम  name  लिये   an   originally  untitled prayer  by  the American  theologian  Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ) .
it  has been  अपनाया  by  alcoholics   बेनाम  and  अन्य  twelve-step programs .
the   best-known  form is  :   परमेश्वर  ,  ग्रान्ट  me the serenity  to  accept the things I can not  change,
the  courage to change the  बाते   i  can,
And wisdom to  जान   the  difference .
The  घोषणा  and  resolves  of the First  महाद्वीपीय  Congress  (  also  ज्ञात  as the Declaration  of   औपनिवेशिक   अधिकारों   ,  or the Declaration  of   अधिकारों  ) ,  थी  a statement  अपनाया  by the  पहला  Continental Congress  on   अक्तूबर  14 , 1774 , in response  to  the  असहनीय   अधिनियमों  passed by the British  पार्लियामेंट  .
The Declaration outlined colonial objections  to  the  असहनीय  Acts  ,  listed a colonial bill of rights  ,   और   provided  a detailed  सूची  of grievances  .
It was similar to the Declaration of  अधिकारों  and  grievances  , passed by the Stamp Act  कॉंग्रेस  a decade earlier  .
The  घोषणा   concluded  with an  रूपरेखा   of  Congress  's   योजनाएँ   :  to enter  into   a  boycott of  अंग्रेजों   व्यापार  ( the  महाद्वीपीय   संघ  )  जबतक   उनके  grievances were redressed ,  to  publish addresses to  the   लोगों  of  ग्रेट  Britain  और  British America ,  और   to  send  a   याचिका  to  the  King  .
पल्स  pressure is  the  pressure  कि  is felt when feeling the pulse  .
measured   in  millimeters of mercury ( mmHg  )  , the pressure  अंतर   between  the systolic  और  diastolic  pressures   is  the  दबाव  change to  बनाएँ  the pulse , which is the pulse pressure .
if  resting blood pressure is ( systolic/diastolic  )  120/80 millimeters of mercury ( mmHg )  ,  pulse pressure is 40 .
the   पहाड़ियाँ  is  a  reality  टेलीविज़न  series  जिससे  originally aired on MTV from May 31 , 2006 until  जुलाई  13 ,  2010  .
the  show uses a  वास्तविकता   टेलीविज़न  format , following the personal lives  of  several young  वयस्कों  living  in  Los Angeles , California ,  लकिन  tends towards a narrative format more  commonly  found in scripted genres such as soap operas  .
The series  originally  followed the personal  जीवन  of former Laguna  बीच  star Lauren Conrad  और  her  मित्रों   '   नई  lives  in  Los Angeles .
After  पाँच   सीज़न  ,  कोनराड  left the series and  थी  replaced by  another   पूर्व   लगुना  Beach star ,  kristin  Cavallari ,  शुरूआत  in the second  हाफ  of  the   पांचवां  season  .
the   श्रेणी  concluded at  the   समाप्त  of  the  sixth  ऋतु  .
Entertainment  साप्ताहिक  ranked The Hills 82nd on their list of `` The 100  बेहतरीन  Shows  of   the  Last 25  सालो  , ''  stating   कि   the  series  थी   a  ``  नई  Classic . ''
एओएल  TV called  it  TV 's Biggest  अपराधी   ख़ुशी   .
The  श्रेणी  premiered in  अनुप्रयोग  in  the   पतन  of  2009  alongside Laguna Beach : The  रियल  Orange County  .
in   पोकर   ,   ख़राब  beat is a subjective term for a hand in  जिससे   a   खिलाड़ी  with what  appear   to   be   दमदार  cards nevertheless  loses   .
it   सबसे   प्रायः   occurs  where one player  bets  the clearly stronger  हाथ   और   उनके  opponent  makes  a poor call that  आखिरकार  `` hits  ''   और  wins  .
There is  no  consensus among poker players as to what exactly constitutes a bad beat and often players will  असहमत  about  whether  a particular hand was a  ख़राब   ताल  .
the   goldfish  (  carassius   auratus   auratus  )  is  a freshwater fish  in   the  family  cyprinidae  of order  cypriniformes  .
it   थी  one of the  earliest  fish  to   be   domesticated  , and  is  one  of  the most commonly kept aquarium fish .
a   अपेक्षाकृत  small  सदस्य  of the  कार्प  family ( which also includes  the  koi carp and  the   crucian   कार्प   )  , the goldfish is a  domesticated  version of  a   less-colorful  carp  (   carassius  auratus ) native  to  east  एशिया  .
It was  पहला  domesticated in  चीन  more than a thousand years  पहले  ,  और  several distinct  breeds   have  since been  विकसित   .
Goldfish  breeds  vary  greatly  in size , body shape  ,   जोडे  configuration and  coloration   (  various combinations  of  white , yellow , orange , red ,  भूरा  , and black are  ज्ञात  ) .
uncooked  Rouladen
rouladen   (  or Rinderroulade ,  एकवचन  : roulade )  is   a   जर्मनी  meat  roulade  usually consisting of bacon , onions  ,   सरसों   और  pickles  लपेटा  in  thinly  sliced beef which is then cooked .
In some  देशों  , the roulade is  भी   ज्ञात   as  `` beef  ज़ैतून   ''  .
Beef  or   वील  is used as meat  हालांकि  some food scholars tend  to  believe that the original  संस्करण  was probably venison  or   पोर्क  , and  पोर्क  is still popular in some areas .
The beef  rouladen   as  we know them today have become popular over  the  last century .
the  cut is  प्रायः  topside beef or silverside since this is  the  cheaper cut .
The more  महंगी  version would be  the  round steak  ,   भी   ज्ञात   as  rump steak .
the  meat is  काटें  into large ,  पतला  slices .
The filling is  a   मिश्रण  of smoked  और  cooked pork belly , chopped onions and  कटा  pickles  (  gurken )  जिससे  is  at   टाइम्स  varied by  adding  minced meat  ,  sausage meat , pine nuts and  सरसों  .
The mixture varies from region to region .
rouladen  are traditionally served  लिये   डिनर  .
Red  वाइन  is often served with  इस  dish .
ठेठ   eukaryotic   कोशिका  .
Cellular respiration  is  the  नियत  of  the  metabolic  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  and processes that  लो  place in the cells of  जीवों  to convert biochemical energy from  nutrients   into  adenosine triphosphate ( ATP  )  ,  और   तब   रिलीज  waste products .
The reactions involved in respiration are  catabolic  reactions , which break  विशाल  molecules  into  smaller ones , releasing  उर्जा   in   the   प्रक्रम  as weak  so-called  ``  high-energy  ''  bonds   हैं  replaced  by  stronger bonds  in   the  products .
Respiration is  एक   of  the key  तरीके  a  कोशिका  gains  उपयोगी   उर्जा  to fuel cellular activity .
सेल्यूलर  respiration is  माना   an  exothermic  रेडॉक्स   प्रतिक्रिया  .
The overall reaction is  टूटा  into many smaller ones  जब   it  occurs in the  देह  ,  सबसे  of which are redox reactions  themselves   .
हालांकि   technically  , cellular  श्वसन  is  a   दहन   प्रतिक्रिया   ,  it clearly does not resemble one when  it  occurs in a  जीना  cell .
This difference is  क्युकी  it occurs in many separate steps .
While the overall reaction is  a   दहन  reaction ,  no  single reaction that comprises  it  is a combustion reaction .
nutrients  that are commonly used  by  animal and plant  कोशिकाएं   in  respiration  शामिल   शुगर  , amino  acids  and fatty acids ,  और  a  आम  oxidizing agent (  इलेक्ट्रॉन  acceptor ) is molecular  ऑक्सीजन   (  O2 ) .
The  उर्जा  stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is  weakly   बंधुआ  to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form ,  thereby   transferring   उर्जा  for use  by  the cell )  can  then be used to  ड्राइव   प्रक्रियाओं  requiring energy , including biosynthesis , locomotion or transportation of molecules  आरपार  cell  झिल्लियों  .
Countries by  2011  GDP ( nominal )  according  to the  सीआईए   संसार  Factbook .
इस  article  शामिल  a list of  देशों   in  the  संसार  sorted by their gross  घरेलू   उत्पाद   (  GDP  )   ,  the  मार्केट   मान   of   सब   फाइनल  goods and services from a nation  in  a  दिए  year .
the   जीडीपी  dollar estimates presented here are calculated at market  or  government official exchange rates .
अनेक   economies   जिससे  are not considered  to  be  देशों  ( world , the  eu  , and some dependent territories ) are included  in   the  lists because they appear in the  स्त्रोत  .
These economies are  नहीं  ranked in the charts  यहाँ   ,  but are listed  जहाँ  applicable .
the  figures presented here do not  लो   into  account differences in  the  cost of living in  अलग  countries , and the results can vary greatly from one  साल  to another  आधारित   on  fluctuations in the exchange rates of  the  country 's currency .
ऐसे  fluctuations  may  change a country 's  रैंकिंग  from one year to  the   अगला  ,  भी   हालांकि  they often make little or no difference to  the  standard of living of its  जनसांख्यिकी  .
Therefore  ये  figures should  be  used with  सावधानी  .
Some  countries/regions   may  have  नागरिकों   जिससे  are  on   औसत  wealthy  .
ये  countries/regions could appear in this list as  having  a small  जीडीपी  .
This would  be  because the country/region  सूचीबद्ध  has a small population , and therefore  छोटी   कुल   अर्थव्यवस्था  ;  the  GDP is calculated as  the  population times the  माल  per capita .
Comparisons  of  national wealth  हैं  also frequently  बना   on   the  basis of purchasing power parity (  ppp  )  ,  to  समायोजन  for  मतभेद  in the  लागत  of living in different countries .
(  See  सूची   of  countries by  जीडीपी  (  ppp  ) )
ppp  largely  removes  the exchange rate problem , but has its own drawbacks ; it does not  प्रतिबिंबित  the value  of   आर्थिक   आउटपुट   in  international trade , and it  भी  requires  अधिक  estimation than nominal  जीडीपी  .
On the whole , PPP per capita figures  हैं   अधिक  narrowly spread than nominal  जीडीपी  per  capita  figures .
the   पहला  list  शामिल   आंकड़ा  compiled  by  the United Nations  आंकडे  Division for 2011  .
The second  सूची  largely  शामिल  data  (  estimate  )  compiled  by  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   मौद्रिक   निधि  for 2012 .
The  तीसरा  list shows  the  World Bank 's mostly 2011 estimates , and the  चौथी  list includes  ज़्यादातर  2012  estimates  from the CIA World  factbook  .
Lapping is a machining  प्रक्रम  ,  in  which  दो  surfaces are rubbed together with an abrasive between  उन्हें  , by hand movement or  by  way  of  a  यंत्र  .
This can take two forms  .
The  पहला  type of lapping (  traditionally  called grinding )  ,  typically involves  रगड़  a brittle  सामग्री  such as  कांच  against a surface such as iron or glass  itself   (  also  ज्ञात  as the  ``  lap '' or grinding tool  )  with an abrasive such  as  aluminum oxide  ,  jeweller 's  रूज  ,  optician   's  rouge  ,  emery ,  सिलिकॉन   कार्बाइड  , diamond , etc.  ,  in between them  .
इस  produces microscopic  conchoidal  fractures as the abrasive  रोल्स   परिचय  between the two  सतहों   और   removes  material  इससे  both .
The other form of lapping  involves  a softer  सामग्री  such as  पिच   or  a  सिरेमिक   लिये  the  गोद   ,  which is `` charged '' with  the  abrasive .
the  lap is then  प्रयुक्त  to cut a harder material—the workpiece .
The  अक्खड़  embeds  भीतर  the softer material which holds it and  permits  it  to  score across and cut the  harder  material  .
Taken  to  a finer  सीमा  , this will produce a polished surface  ऐसे  as with a polishing  cloth   on  an automobile ,  or  a polishing cloth or polishing pitch  upon  glass  or  steel .
लिया  to the  परम   सीमा  , with the aid  of   सटीक   interferometry   और  specialized polishing machines or  skilled  hand polishing ,  lensmakers   can  produce surfaces that are flat to better than 30 nanometers .
इस  is one  बीसवीं  of  the  wavelength  of   लाइट  from  the  commonly  प्रयुक्त   632.8  nm helium  नियॉन   लेज़र  light  सोर्स   .
Surfaces this  चपटा  can be molecularly bonded ( optically  contacted  )  by  bringing them  साथ  under  the   सही  conditions  .
( This  is  not the same as the wringing effect of Johansson blocks ,  हालांकि   it   is   समान  ) .
the   पद   ``   अमेरिका  's Team  ''  is a popular nickname  in  the United  राज्य   कि  refers  to  the Dallas Cowboys in the National  फ़ुटबॉल  League .
the  nickname originated  साथ  the team 's  1978  highlight  फिल्मी   ,  where the  narrator   opens   साथ  the following  परिचय  :  the  term  is   पहचाना  and often  प्रयुक्त  by media outlets , including ESPN , Yahoo !  ,  HBO Sports , and Sports Illustrated  .
My Babysitter 's  a   पिशाच  ( French : Ma gardienne est un  पिशाच   )  is a  2011   कनाडाई   टेलीविज़न  series , based on the television film  of  the same  नाम  .
In Canada  ,  the series premiered in  फ्रेंच  on Télétoon  on  February 28 , 2011 ,  in  English on Teletoon  on  March  14   ,  2011 , and on Disney Channel in  the  United States on June  27  , 2011 .
The show was  निर्मित   by   भैस  TV , creators of  6teen  and Total Drama .
The show follows  ethan   मॉर्गन  ( Matthew Knight )  ,   जो  , in the  टेलीविज़न  film , learns  कि   उसके   दाई  Sarah ( Vanessa Morgan )  is  a vampire .
in  the film  ,  he learns he is able to have visions and  उसके  best friend  बेनी  Weir ( Atticus Mitchell  )  is a spellmaster .
The series follows  the  three as they take  on   अलौकिक  forces and have adventures  ,   साथ  occasional  सहायता  from fellow vampires Rory ( Cameron Kennedy )  और  Erica  (  Kate Todd ) , while dealing  साथ  the troubles of regular high  स्कूल   जीवन  .
A  दूसरी   ऋतु  was confirmed to start production  in  September  2011   और  it  पहला  premiered on  डिज़्नी   चैनल   on  June  29  , 2012 , it premiered  on  Teletoon September 6  ,  2012  .
Télétoon started  featuring  season 2 sneak-peak episodes on October 28  ,  2012 and premiered it on January 10  ,  2013
Dodge B Series utility circa  1950  ,  चलित  by  अल्बर्ट   namatjira
A pickup  ट्रक   or  pick-up  ,  often simply referred to as a pickup , is a light motor vehicle with an open-top , rear  कार्गो  area (  bed   )  .
in  North  अमेरिका  , the term pickup is used  लिये   लाइट  trucks  साथ   a  lighter  ड्यूटी   chassis  and factory built , integrated bed  ,   as  well as for  coupé  utility vehicles , often based on  a  personal car chassis , but  भी  often on a  खास  dedicated chassi  लिये  such use  .
Some  देशों  have their  अपना   शर्तें  similar  to   पिकअप   ,  such as ute in Australia and  नई  Zealand ,  or  bakkie  in  South Africa  .
Large pickup  ट्रक   हैं   somewhat   विरल  in Europe , where vans and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles .
the   अध्यक्ष   of   the  United  राज्य  of America  (  POTUS )  is  the head  of   राज्य   और  head of government  of  the United  राज्य  .
The president  लीड  the  कार्यपालिका   शाखा  of  the  federal government and  is  the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed  शक्तियां  .
Article II  of   the  U.S.  संविधान  vests  the   कार्यपालिका   शक्ति   of  the  संयुक्त  States in the  अध्यक्ष  and charges him with  the  execution of  संघीय  law , alongside  the  responsibility of  appointing  federal executive  ,   राजनयिक  , regulatory , and  न्यायिक  officers ,  और   concluding  treaties  साथ  foreign  शक्तियां   ,   साथ  the advice and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered  to  grant federal pardons and reprieves ,  और  to convene and adjourn either or  दोनो   घरों  of Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
चूंकि  the founding  of  the United  राज्य   ,   the   शक्ति  of  the  president and the federal government have  grown  substantially  और  each modern president , despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond  हस्ताक्षर  or vetoing  congressionally   passed  bills ,  is  largely  जिम्मेदार  for dictating the  विधान  agenda  of  his  पार्टी  and the foreign and domestic policy  of  the United States .
The president is frequently described as the  सबसे   शक्तिशाली   व्यक्ति  in the  संसार   .
the  president  is  indirectly  निर्वाचित  by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year  पद  , and is one of only two  nationally  elected federal  अधिकारियों  , the other being the  वाइस  President  of  the United States  .
The Twenty-second  amendment  , adopted in 1951 , prohibits  anyone   इससे  ever being  निर्वाचित   to  the presidency for  a  third full term .
it  also prohibits  a  person  इससे  being elected  to  the presidency more  than  once if that person previously  था  served as president  ,  or  एक्टिंग  president , for  अधिक  than two years of another person 's term as president .
In all , 43 individuals have  परोसा  55 four-year  शर्तें   .
On January 20  ,  2009 , Barack  ओबामा  became the 44th and  वर्तमान  president .
on  November 6 ,  2012  , he was re-elected and is scheduled to serve  जबतक   जनवरी  20 ,  2017   .
Bottled mineral  जल
बोतलबंद  water is drinking water  (  e.g. , well water , distilled water , Mineral water , or spring water  )  packaged in plastic or  कांच  water bottles .
Bottled water  may  be carbonated  or  not .
आकार  range from small single serving  बोतलों  to large carboys  लिये   जल  coolers  .
Map of  the  major rivers ,  झीलों  , and reservoirs in India
Map showing rivers and flood prone areas  in  India
Rivers of India  खेल  an important  भूमिका  in  the  lives of  the  Indian people  .
the  river systems  provide   सिंचाई  , potable  जल  , cheap  परिवहन   ,  electricity ,  और  the livelihoods  लिये  a  विशाल  number  of  people  सब  over the  देश  and to rural areas .
This easily explains  क्यों  nearly all the major  शहरों  of India  हैं  located by the  बैंको  of  नदियाँ  .
the   नदियाँ  also  have  an important role in Hindu mythology and are considered holy by  सब  Hindus in the country .
सात  major rivers along with  उनके   numerous   tributaries  make up the  नदी  system of India  .
Most  of   the   नदियाँ  pour their waters into  the   खाड़ी  of Bengal ; however  ,  some of  the  rivers whose  पाठ्यक्रम   लो  them through  the  western  भाग  of the country and towards the east of  the  state of  himachal  Pradesh empty into the Arabian Sea  .
Parts  of   लद्दाख  , northern parts of the Aravlli  दायरा  and  the  arid parts of  the  Thar Desert have  अंतर्देशीय  drainage  .
dr.francis  Buchanan surveyed the courses of the rivers of India along with their tributaries and branches  in  1810-11 AD and presented  a   मिनट  account  of  it .
the  shifting of the courses  और   bed   over  the centuries is very remarkable .
Many of the channels  उल्लेखित  in  कि  survey have  अभी   become   मुर्दे  , dried or even extinct .
All  प्रमुख  rivers of India originate  इससे   एक  of the three main watersheds  :
The Himalaya and the  काराकोरम  ranges
Vindhya and  satpura   सीमाएँ   और  Chotanagpur plateau in central India
Sahyadri or Western Ghats in western  इण्डिया
the  Bretton Woods system  of  monetary  प्रबन्धन  established the  नियम   लिये  commercial and  वित्तीय   संबंध  among  the  world 's major industrial  राज्य  in the mid-20th century .
The  bretton  Woods  प्रणाली   थी   the   पहला  example of a fully negotiated monetary order  intended  to govern monetary relations among independent nation-states  .
Preparing  to  rebuild the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  economic system as World War II  थी  still  raging  , 730 delegates  इससे  all 44 Allied  राष्ट्र  gathered  at  the  माउंट  Washington Hotel  in  Bretton Woods  ,  New  हैम्पशायर  , United States , for  the  United Nations Monetary  और  Financial Conference  .
The delegates  deliberated  during 1–22 July  1944  ,  और  signed the Agreement on  इसके  final day .
सेटिंग  up  a   प्रणाली  of  नियम  , institutions , and procedures to regulate the international monetary system  ,  the  planners   at  Bretton Woods  स्थापित  the International  मौद्रिक   निधि  ( IMF ) and the International Bank  लिये   पुनर्निर्माण   और  Development ( IBRD  )   ,   जिससे  today is part  of   the  World Bank Group  .
These  संगठन  became operational in  1945  after a sufficient number  of  countries  था   ratified  the agreement  .
the   मुख्य  features of  the  Bretton Woods  प्रणाली   यहूद  an obligation  लिये  each country to adopt a monetary policy that maintained the exchange  रेट   by   tying  its  करेंसी   to  the U.S. dollar and the  क्षमता   of  the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments .
On 15  अगस्त  1971 , the  संयुक्त  States  unilaterally   terminated  convertibility of the US $ to gold .
This brought the Bretton Woods  प्रणाली  to an  समाप्त   और   देखी  the dollar  become  fiat currency  .
This action ,  referred  to as the Nixon shock , created the situation  in   जिससे  the United  राज्य  dollar became a reserve currency used by many states  .
At the same time , many fixed currencies (  ऐसे  as  gbp  , for example ) ,  भी   became  free  फ्लोटिंग  .
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is  an  Italian company that  डिजाइन  and manufactures motorcycles .
Headquartered in Bologna  ,  Italy  ,   डुकाटी  is owned by Audi  through  its Italian subsidiary Lamborghini  .
a  credit score  is  a numerical expression  आधारित   on   a  statistical analysis of a person 's credit files , to represent the creditworthiness of that person .
a  credit score is primarily based on credit report information  typically  sourced from  क्रेडिट  bureaus  .
Lenders , such as banks and credit  कार्ड   कंपनियाँ  , use credit scores to  evaluate  the  संभावित   रिस्क  posed by lending money to  उपभोक्ता   और  to  mitigate  losses due  to  bad debt .
Lenders use  क्रेडिट   स्कोर   to   determine   जो  qualifies  लिये   a   ऋण   ,  at what  ब्याज  rate ,  और   कया  credit  हद   .
lenders   भी   उपयोग  credit  स्कोर   to  determine  जिससे   ग्राहक  are  संभावित  to bring in the most  आय  .
the  use of  क्रेडिट  or identity  स्कोरिंग   prior   to  authorizing access or granting credit  is  an implementation of a  विश्वसनीय  system .
Credit  स्कोरिंग  is  नहीं  limited to banks  .
अन्य   संगठन  , such as  मोबाईल   फोन   कंपनियाँ  , insurance companies , landlords , and government departments  employ  the  वही   तकनीकों  .
क्रेडिट   स्कोरिंग   भी   रै  a lot  of  overlap  साथ  data mining  ,  which  उपयोग  many similar techniques  .
ये  techniques  combine  thousands of  कारकों   लकिन  they are  अधिक  or  कम  similar  or   the  same .
The seven SI  आधार  units and  the  interdependency of  उनके  definitions  :  for example , to extract the definition of the metre from the speed of light , the definition  of  the second must be known while  the  ampere and candela  हैं   दोनो  dependent  on   the  definition of energy which in turn is  पारिभाषित   in  terms of length  ,  mass and time .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  System  of  Units (  si  ) defines seven  इकाई   of  measure  as  a  मौलिक  set from which all other  si  units  हैं   निकला  .
These SI base units and  उनके  physical quantities are:
metre for length  (  US  अंग्रेज़ी  : meter  )
किलोग्राम  for mass  (  note : not the gram  )
दूसरी  for time
ampere  for electric current
kelvin for  तापमान
candela for luminous  तीव्रता
mole for the  राशि  of substance .
the  SI  आधार  quantities form a  नियत   of   mutually  independent dimensions as  जरूरी  by dimensional  विश्लेषण   commonly  employed in  विज्ञान  and  प्रौद्योगिकी   .
However , in a  दिए  realization of these units they may well be  interdependent   ,  i.e  .  defined in terms of  प्रत्येक  other .
The names  of   si  units are written in  लोअरकेस  characters ( the 'degree  सेल्सियस   '   meets   इस  rule , as 'degree '  is  the unit ,  और  'Celsius ' is a  modifier   )   .
The symbols of units  हैं  written in  लोअरकेस  ( e.g . metre  रै   the  symbol m ) , except  कि  symbols  लिये  units named  बाद  persons are written with  an  initial  पूंजी  letter ( e.g. , the hertz  रै  the uppercase symbol  hz   )   .
Many other units  ,  such as the litre ( US English : liter  )  , are  formally   नहीं  part of the  si  ,  लकिन  are accepted  लिये  use  साथ  SI .
स्मारक  Canyon
Colorado National Monument ( locally referred to as The  स्मारक  )  is  a part  of   the  National Park  सेवा  near the city  of   ग्रैंड  Junction , Colorado .
Spectacular canyons cut deep  into  sandstone and  भी   granite–gneiss–schist  rock formations ,  in   कुछ  areas .
This is an area  of   मरुस्थल  land high on the Colorado Plateau  ,  with pinion and juniper forests on the plateau  .
The park hosts a  चौड़ी  range of wildlife ,  सहित  red-tailed  चीलों  and golden eagles , ravens  ,  jays , desert bighorn sheep , and coyotes .
Activities include hiking ,  horseback  riding , road bicycling , and scenic drives ; a  आगंतुक   बीच  on the west  पक्ष  contains  a  natural history museum and gift  दूकान  .
There are magnificent views from trails  और  the  रिम  Rock  ड्राइव   ,   जिससे  winds along  the  plateau  .
आसपास  are the  किताब  Cliffs , and the  largest   flat-topped   पहाड़  in  the   संसार   ,  the Grand Mesa .
Its feature  आकर्षण   is  Monument Canyon , which  रनों  the  चौडाई  of  the  park  ,  and  शामिल   चट्टान  formations such as Independence  स्मारक  , the  चुंबन  Couple ,  और  Coke Ovens .
The  स्मारक  includes  20,500  acres (  32   वर्गाकार   मील  )  ,   much  of which has been recommended to Congress for  नामांकन  as  wilderness  .
left to right :  यूटिलिटी  Uniform  ,  Blue Dress Uniform  ,  Service Uniform , and  संध्या  Dress uniforms
The Uniforms of the United States Marine Corps  serve  to distinguish Marines  इससे  members  of  other services .
Among current  वर्दी   in  the United  राज्य   हथियारबंद  Forces , the  marines  ' uniforms have been  in   सेवा   the   longest  .
The  समुद्री  Dress Blue uniform has ,  साथ  few changes  ,  been worn in essentially  इसके   वर्तमान  form since the 19th century .
North  अमरीकी  telephone area codes 419 and 567 serve the northwest quadrant of the U.S.  राज्य  of Ohio  .
The  largest   नगर  served by  ये  area codes is Toledo  (   और  its  उपनगरों  of  हॉलैंड  , Maumee , Northwood  ,   ऑरेगॉन   ,  Ottawa  पहाड़ियाँ  ,  perrysburg   ,   rossford   ,   sylvania  , Swanton ,  waterville   ,  and Whitehouse  )  .
अन्य   शहरों  served by  ये  area codes include  एडीए  ,  ashland   ,  Bellevue  ,  Bluffton , Bowling  ग्रीन  , Bryan , Bucyrus , Celina , Clyde , Crestline  ,   defiance   ,  Delphos ,  एडिसन  , Erastus ,  findlay  ,  fostoria  , Fremont , Galion ,  kenton   ,  Lima  ,  Mansfield  ,  Mount Gilead ,  नेपोलियन  , Norwalk ,  ओक   हार्बर   ,  Port Clinton  ,  Sandusky ,  शेल्बी  , St. Marys ,  tiffin   ,   अपर  Sandusky  ,  Van Wert , Wapakoneta  ,  Wauseon  ,  Willard .
अन्य   क्षेत्रों  served include the Lake Erie  आइलैंड्स  north  of   बंदरगाहों   क्लिंटन   और  west  of   sandusky   .
The main  क्षेत्रफल   कोड  , 419  ,  was created as one of  the   असली  area codes in October 1947  ;  the overlay area code 567 was  निर्मित  on  जनवरी  1 , 2002  .
Despite the presence of  टोलेडो  , the state 's fourth-largest  नगर  ,  419  was the last of Ohio  's   असली   चार  area codes to have been split or overlaid  .
Mickey Leroy Gilley ( born March 9  ,  1936 ) is an American  देश   म्यूज़िक  singer  और  musician .
Although  he   प्रारंभ  out singing  straight-up  country and western material in  the   1970s  ,  he  moved  towards  a more pop -friendly  ध्वनि  in the 1980s ,  bringing  him  further  success  on   नहीं  just the country charts  ,  but the pop charts as well  .
Among his  biggest   हिट्स  are  ``  Room  पूरा  of  गुलाब  , '' ``  do  n't the  लड़कियों  All Get  prettier  at Closing Time  ,  '' and the remake  of  the  आत्मा  hit  ``   स्टैंड   by   me  `` .
he  is  भी  the  cousin   of  Jerry  ली  Lewis , Carl  mcvoy  , Jim Gilley and Jimmy  swaggart  .
According to the  संघीय  Aviation Administration , Gilley is  a  licensed  पायलट  , who  holds  an instrument  दरजा   साथ  commercial pilot  privileges  for multi-engine  airplanes  , as well as private pilot privileges  लिये  single engine  वायुयान  .
The September  11  attacks ( also  referred   to   as  September  11  , September  11th  , or 9/11 ) were a series of  चार  coordinated terrorist attacks  शुभारम्भ  by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York  नगर  and the  वॉशिंगटन   ,  D.C. area on  सितंबर  11 ,  2001  .
Four  यात्री  airliners were  hijacked  by 19  al-qaeda  terrorists so they  could  be  flown  into  इमारतें  in suicide  हमले   .
Two of those  planes  , American Airlines Flight  11  and  संयुक्त  Airlines  उड़ान  175 ,  यहूद   क्रैश  into  the  North and South towers  ,  respectively  ,   of  the  संसार   व्यापार  Center complex in New York City  .
भीतर  two  घंटों  , both  मीनारें   collapsed  with  मलबा  and  the  resulting fires causing  आंशिक  or  पूरा   पतन   of   सब   अन्य  buildings in the WTC complex , as  खूब  as major  क्षति  to ten  अन्य  large surrounding structures .
A third  प्लेन  ,  अमरीकी  Airlines Flight  77   ,  was crashed into the Pentagon  (  the headquarters  of  the  संयुक्त  States Department  of  Defense  )  ,  अग्रणी   to  a partial collapse in  इसके  western side .
the   चौथी  plane  ,   संयुक्त  Airlines Flight  93  , was targeted at the  संयुक्त  States Capitol in Washington , D.C. , but  क्रैश  into a  फ़ील्ड  near  shanksville  , Pennsylvania  ,  after  इसके  passengers tried  to   overcome  the hijackers .
In  कुल  , almost 3,000 people died in the attacks  ,  including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes .
Suspicion  जल्दी  fell on al-Qaeda  .
Although the group 's  नेता  ,  ओसामा  bin  लादेन   ,  initially  अस्वीकृत  any involvement , in 2004  he  claimed responsibility for the attacks  .
Al-Qaeda and bin  लादेन   cited   u.S.  support  of  Israel ,  the  presence of  u.S.  troops  in  Saudi Arabia , and sanctions against Iraq  as  motives  लिये   the  attacks  .
The  संयुक्त  States  responded   to   the  attacks by  शुभारंभ  the War on Terror  और  invading Afghanistan  to  depose  the  Taliban , which  था  harbored al-Qaeda  .
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation and expanded law enforcement powers .
Having  evaded  capture for years , bin Laden  थी  located and killed by  u.S.   शक्तियां   in  May 2011 .
The destruction of  the  Twin Towers and other properties caused  गंभीर   क्षति  to the economy  of  Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect  on  global markets .
क्लीनअप  of the World  व्यापार  Center site  थी  completed in May 2002  ,  and  the  Pentagon was repaired  भीतर   a  year .
Numerous  memorials  have been  constructed  , including  the  National September 11 Memorial & Museum  in  New York , the Pentagon Memorial , and the Flight  93  National Memorial in  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
After a lengthy  विलंब  , the  एक  World Trade Center is expected to be completed at Ground  शून्य  in  नई  York City  in  2013  .
Finding  nemo  is a 2003 American computer-animated comedy-drama  एडवेंचर   फिल्मी   लिखा  and  निर्देशित  by Andrew  stanton  , released  by   वॉल्ट  Disney Pictures , and  the  fifth film produced  by   पिक्चर्स  Animation  studios  .
it  tells the  स्टोरी   of  the over-protective clownfish named  marlin   (  Albert Brooks ) who  ,  along  साथ   a  regal tang named Dory ( Ellen DeGeneres )  ,   खोज  for his  abducted  son  nemo   (  Alexander Gould  )  all  the  way  to  Sydney  harbour   .
साथ  the way  ,  Marlin learns to take risks  और  let Nemo take care  of  himself  .
It is  पिक्चर्स  's first film to  be   released   in  cinemas in the northern  गोलार्ध  summer .
the   फिल्मी  was re-released for the  पहला  time in 3D  on   सितंबर   14   ,  2012  ,  and it  थी   released  on Blu-ray on December 4  ,  2012  .
A sequel , Finding Dory  ,  is currently in  विकास   ,   नियत  to be released on November  25   ,   2015   .
The  फिल्मी   प्राप्त  universal  नाजुक  acclaim and won the  अकादमी  Award for  बेहतरीन  Animated Feature  ,  and was nominated in three more  श्रेणी  including  बेहतरीन  Original Screenplay .
it  was the second highest-grossing film of  2003  , earning a  कुल   of  $ 921  लाख  worldwide .
Finding Nemo  is  also  the   best-selling   dvd  of all time  ,  with over 40 million copies sold as of 2006 , and was  the   highest-grossing   g-rated  film  of   सब  time  पहले   पिक्चर्स  's own Toy Story  3  overtook it  .
It  is  also the 23rd highest-grossing film  of   सब  time  ,  as well as  the  3rd highest-grossing animated film .
In 2008 , the American Film  संस्थान  named it the tenth  महानतम  animated film ever  बना  during their Top 10  .
the   छठे  season of America 's  बेहतरीन  Dance  क्रू  , also  ज्ञात  as America  's  Best  नृत्य  Crew : Season of the Superstars , premiered  on   अप्रैल  7  ,  2011  और  concluded  on   जून   5  , 2011  .
auditions  were  आयोजित  in  चार   शहरों   इससे   जनवरी  21  through  February 5 :  शिकागो   ,  Houston ,  नई  York ,  और  Los Angeles .
इस   ऋतु   takes  a different  रूट   इससे  past  सीज़न   .
The crews must  perform  to  the   म्यूज़िक  of  एक  specific artist  प्रत्येक   सप्ताह   ,  including Rihanna ,  लील   वेन  , and other  लोकप्रिय  stars .
This season also  सुविधाएँ  special guest  दिखावे  by various music celebrities  सहित  Justin Bieber , The  ब्लैक  Eyed  मटर  , Katy Perry  ,  Kesha , Nicki Minaj , and Kanye  वेस्ट  .
Dominic `` D-Trix  ''   sandoval   ,   a  former member of Quest Crew , the winner of the third season of  अमेरिका  's Best Dance Crew  ,   joins   returning  judges Lil Mama and  jc  Chasez  as  the newest judge .
In the  ऋतु   finale   ,  I aM mE was declared the winner of Season 6 and  प्राप्त   the   $   100,000  ( USD )  पुरस्कार  .
in  the  संयुक्त  States , Social  सुरक्षा  refers  to  the Old-Age ,  survivors  , and  विकलांगता  Insurance  (  OASDI ) federal program .
The original  सोशल  Security  अधिनियम  (  1935  )  और  the current version  of   the  Act ,  as  amended  ,  encompass several  सोशल  welfare and social  बीमे   कार्यक्रम   .
सोशल  Security is primarily  वित्तपोषित  through dedicated  payroll   कर  called Federal Insurance  योगदान  Act tax ( FICA )  .
Tax deposits  हैं  formally  entrusted   to   the  Federal  old-age   और   survivors  Insurance  विश्वास  Fund , the Federal Disability  बीमे  Trust  निधि  , the Federal Hospital Insurance  विश्वास   निधि  , or  the  Federal Supplementary Medical  बीमे  Trust Fund  जिससे  comprise the Social Security Trust Fund .
Upward redistribution of income is responsible  लिये  about  43  % of the projected Social Security shortfall over the next  75   सालो  .
according  to economist Martin  feldstein  ,  the  combined  बिता  for all social insurance programs  in  2003 constituted 37 % of government  व्यय  and 7  %  of  the  gross domestic  उत्पाद  .
Social Security is currently estimated to keep roughly 40 percent of all Americans  आयु  65 or older  आउट  of  गरीबी  .
The  सोशल  Security Administration is headquartered in Woodlawn , Maryland  ,   बस  west  of  Baltimore .
the   दारू  by volume shown on  a  bottle of absinthe .
दारू  by volume ( abbreviated as ABV ,  abv  , or  alc/vol  ) is a standard  माप  of how much  दारू   (   इथेनॉल   )   is   contained  in an alcoholic beverage  (   expressed  as  a  percentage  of  total volume )  .
The ABV standard is used worldwide .
In  कुछ   देशों  , alcohol  by   आवाज़   is  referred to as degrees Gay-Lussac ( after the French  केमिस्ट  Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac  )   .
Laurel  खोखला   is   a   गाँव   in  the Town  of  Oyster Bay in Nassau County , New York  in  the  संयुक्त  States  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 1,952 at the 2010 census .
चार्ल्स   जॉन   huffam  Dickens ( ; 7 February 1812  –  9 June  1870  ) was an English writer and social critic  .
He created some of the world 's  सबसे  memorable fictional characters and is  generally  regarded  as   the  greatest  उपन्यासकार  of the  विक्टोरियन   काल  .
During  उसके   जीवन   ,  his works enjoyed unprecedented  कीर्ति   ,  and by the twentieth  सदी   उसके   साहित्यिक  genius  थी   broadly  acknowledged by critics  और  scholars .
उसके   novels  and  छोटी   कहानियां   continue  to  be   widely   लोकप्रिय   .
born  in Portsmouth , England , Dickens left school  to  work in a  फैक्टरी   बाद  his father was thrown into  कर्जदार   '   थाना  .
Although  he  had little formal education , his  जल्दी  impoverishment drove him  to   सफल  .
over  his career he edited a weekly  जर्नल   लिये   20  years , wrote 15 novels  ,  5 novellas and  सैंकड़ों  of  छोटी   कहानियां  and non-fiction articles  ,  lectured  और   performed  extensively  ,   थी  an indefatigable letter writer , and campaigned  vigorously  for children  's  rights ,  शिक्षा   ,  and other  सोशल   reforms  .
Dickens sprang to  कीर्ति   साथ  the 1836 serial publication of The Pickwick Papers .
Within  a   few  years he  था  become  an   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   साहित्यिक  celebrity  ,  famous for his humour , satire  ,  and keen observation  of  character and society .
उसके   novels   ,  most published in monthly or weekly instalments , pioneered  the   सीरियल  publication  of  narrative fiction  ,  which became the dominant  विक्टोरियन   विधि  for  अनोखा   प्रकाशन  .
The  किस्त  format allowed  डिकेंस   to   evaluate  his audience  's   प्रतिक्रिया   ,   और   he  often  परिवर्धित   उसके  plot  और  character development  आधारित  on such feedback .
For example  ,  when his wife  's  chiropodist expressed distress at the way  मिस   mowcher  in  दाउद  Copperfield seemed to reflect her disabilities  ,  Dickens went on to improve the character  साथ   धनात्मक   lineaments  .
Fagin in  ओलिवर   ट्विस्ट  apparently mirrors the  प्रसिद्ध  fence  ikey  Solomon  ;  His  कैरीकेचर  of Leigh Hunt  in  the  फिगर  of Mr Skimpole in  bleak  House  थी  likewise toned down on advice from some of his  मित्रों   ,  as they read episodes  .
In  the  same  अनोखा   ,  both Lawrence  boythorne  and Mooney the  beadle  are drawn from  रियल  life – Boythorne from Walter Savage Landor  और   मूनी  from 'Looney ' , a beadle at Salisbury  वर्गाकार  .
His  भूखंड   यहूद  carefully constructed ,  और   डिकेंस  often wove in  तत्व  from  topical  events  into   उसके  narratives .
masses   of  the  अनपढ़   ग़रीब   chipped  in  ha'pennies  to have each new  मासिक  episode read to them , opening up and inspiring a new  क्लास   of  readers .
Dickens  थी  regarded as the  साहित्यिक  colossus of his age .
His 1843 novella , A  क्रिसमस   कैरोल   ,  is one  of  the most influential works ever written  ,  and it remains popular and  continues  to inspire  adaptations  in every  कलाकारी  genre  .
His creative genius  रै   महरूम  praised by fellow  writers—from  Leo  टालस्टाय  to  G.  K.  चेस्टरटन  and George Orwell —for  इसके   यथार्थवाद  , comedy , prose  स्टाइल   ,  unique characterisations  ,  and  सोशल  criticism .
On the other  हाथ  Oscar Wilde  ,  Henry  जेम्स  and  वर्जिनिया  Woolf complained  of  a lack of  मनोवैज्ञानिक   गहराई  , loose  लिखने  , and a vein  of  saccharine sentimentalism  .
मार्टिन  Luther King and other civil rights leaders  in  front of the statue of Abraham Lincoln , August  28  ,  1963
the   सिविल  rights movement was a series of worldwide political movements for  समता   पहले   the  law that peaked in the 1960s .
In many situations it took the form  of  campaigns of civil resistance aimed at achieving change  by  nonviolent forms of  प्रतिरोध   .
In some situations  it  was accompanied , or followed , by civil unrest and armed rebellion .
The process was long  और  tenuous in many  देशों  ,  और  many of  ये  movements did  नहीं  fully achieve their  लक्ष्य  although , the efforts  of  these movements did  सीसे  to improvements in the legal rights of previously  दलित   समूह  of people  .
The  प्रमुख  aim of  the   सिविल  rights movement  शामिल   ,   और  include  ,  ensuring that  the   अधिकारों  of  सब  people  हैं  equally  सुरक्षित  by the law ,  सहित  the rights of  अल्पसंख्यकों   .
Civil rights movements ranging from  the   वैश्विक  LGBT rights movement  to  the global Women  's  rights movement to  विभिन्न  racial  अल्पसंख्यक   अधिकारों  movements  around  the world continue .
the  2010  फीफा  World Cup was the 19th FIFA  संसार  Cup , the  संसार  championship for men  's  national  संघ  football teams .
it   took  place in South Africa from  11  June  to   11   जुलाई   2010  .
The bidding process  लिये  hosting the tournament finals  थी  open only to  अफ़्रीकी   राष्ट्र  ; in 2004  ,  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   फ़ुटबॉल   संघ  ,  फीफा   ,   चयनित  South  अफ़्रीकी  over Egypt  और   मोरक्को  to become  the  first  अफ़्रीकी  nation to host the finals .
The matches were played in ten stadiums  in   नौ  host cities  around   the  country  ,  with the final  निभाई  at  the  Soccer City stadium in South Africa 's  largest   नगर  , Johannesburg .
Thirty-two teams were selected for participation  via  a worldwide  योग्यता  tournament that began  in  August 2007 .
In  the  first  गोलाकार  of the tournament  फाइनल   ,  the teams competed in round-robin  समूह  of four  टीमों  for points  ,   साथ   the   शीर्ष  two teams  in   प्रत्येक  group proceeding .
ये  sixteen  टीमों   उन्नत  to the  नॉकआउट  stage , where three rounds of play decided which teams  होता   participate  in the final  .
In  the  final  ,  Spain  ,   the  European champions , defeated third-time  finalists  the Netherlands 1–0 after  अतिरिक्त  time ,  साथ   आन्द्रेस  Iniesta  's  goal in the 116th  मिनट   giving   स्पेन  their first world  शीर्षक  ,  बनने   the   आठवीं  nation to win  the   टूर्नामेंट   ,  and the  पहला  European  स्वदेश  to win  the   टूर्नामेंट  outside its home  महाद्वीप  .
Host nation South Africa , 2006  संसार  champions Italy and 2006 runners-up  फ़्रांस   यहूद  all eliminated in the first  गोलाकार  of the tournament .
It was  the   पहला  time that  the  hosts were eliminated in  the  first round  .
नई  Zealand with their  तीन   draws  were the  तभी  undefeated team in  the  tournament , but  यहूद   भी  eliminated in the first round  .
The  mcmuffin  is a family of breakfast sandwiches  in  various sizes  और  configurations , sold by  the  fast-food  रेस्तरां  chain  मैकडोनाल्ड  's .
The Egg McMuffin  is  the signature breakfast  सैंडविच  ;  it  was invented by the late McDonald 's  वाल  Herb Peterson in  the   लेट  1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972 .
John Lennon was an English musician who gained worldwide  कीर्ति  as one of  the  founders  of   the  Beatles , for his  subsequent  solo career  ,   और   लिये  his  राजनैतिक   सक्रियता  and pacifism .
he  was shot by Mark David  chapman   at  the entrance of  the  building where he lived , The Dakota ,  in   नई  York City on 8 December 1980 .
लेनन  had just returned  इससे   रिकार्ड  Plant  स्टुडियो  with his wife  ,  Yoko Ono .
लेनन  was pronounced  मुर्दे  on  आगमन  at  st.   luke's-roosevelt  Hospital Center  ,  where  it   थी   stated   कि  nobody could have lived for more  than   a  few minutes after  sustaining  such injuries .
shortly  after local news  स्टेशन   reported  Lennon 's death , crowds gathered at Roosevelt  हॉस्पिटल  and in front of the  डकोटा  .
लेनन   थी  cremated on 10 December 1980  at  the Ferncliff Cemetery in Hartsdale ,  नई  York ; the ashes were  दिए   to   ओनो   ,  who chose not  to  hold a  अंत्येष्टि  for  उसे  .
The first report  of   लेनन  's death to a U.S. national  दर्शक  was announced by Howard Cosell , on ABC  's  Monday Night  फ़ुटबॉल  .
New  ऑरलियन्स  ( or  ,   locally  or ;  )   is   a  major United  राज्य  port  और  the  largest   नगर  and  महानगर  area in  the  state of Louisiana .
The population of the city was 343,829 as of  the  2010  u.S.  Census .
The New Orleans metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical  क्षेत्रफल  )  था  a population  of  1,167,764  in  2010  और  was the 46th largest in the United States .
The New  orleans–metairie–bogalusa  Combined Statistical  क्षेत्रफल  , a  larger  trading area ,  था  a 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  of 1,214,932 .
The  नगर  is named after Orléans  ,  a city located on  the  Loire  नदी   in   केन्द्र   ,  France  ,  and is well known  लिये   इसके  distinct  फ्रेंच  Creole architecture  ,   as  well  as  its cross-cultural  और   बहुभाषी  heritage .
नई   ऑरलियन्स   is  also  प्रसिद्ध  for its cuisine , music  (  particularly  as  the birthplace of jazz ) ,  और  its annual celebrations and festivals , most  notably   mardi  Gras .
the  city is  प्रायः  referred to as the ``  सबसे  unique '' in America .
नई  Orleans is located in southeastern  louisiana  , straddling  the  Mississippi  नदी   .
The city and Orleans Parish ( )  हैं  .
The  नगर  and parish  हैं  bounded by  the  parishes of St. Tammany to the north ,  st.  Bernard to the  ईस्ट   ,  Plaquemines to the south and  जेफरसन  to the  दक्षिण   और  west .
Lake Pontchartrain ,  भाग  of which  is  included  in  the city  हद  , lies to the  उत्तर   और  Lake  borgne  lies to the east .
The United States presidential election of 1968 was  the  46th  quadrennial  presidential election ,  आयोजित   on  Tuesday  ,  November 5  ,   1968   .
The  रिपब्लिकन  nominee , former  vice-president  Richard  निक्सन  , won the  चुनाव  over the  लोकतांत्रिक  nominee ,  लाज़िम   vice-president   ह्यूबर्ट  Humphrey .
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to restore  विधि   और   अनुक्रम  to the  स्वदेश  's cities , torn by riots and crime .
Analysts have argued  the  election  of  1968 is a  realigning  election as  it  permanently disrupted the  नई  Deal Coalition  कि  had  वर्चस्व  presidential  राजनीती   लिये  36 years  .
Coming four years after  डेमोक्रेट   lyndon  B. Johnson  जीती  in a  ऐतिहासिक   भूस्खलन   ,   the  election saw  the  incumbent president  मजबूर  out of the race and a Republican elected for the  पहला  time in twelve  सालो  .
It was a wrenching national  अनुभव   ,  conducted  दौरान   a  year of violence that included the assassination  of  civil rights leader Martin  लूथर   किंग   ,   jr.  , and  subsequent  race riots across the nation  ,  the  assasination   of   लोकतांत्रिक  presidential candidate Robert F.  कैनेडी  , widespread  विपक्ष  to the Vietnam  युद्ध  across university campuses  ,   और  violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters  at   the  1968 Democratic National Convention as  the   लोकतांत्रिक  party  विभाजित   again  and again .
The  चुनाव  featured the strongest  तीसरा   पार्टी  effort since 1912 by former Alabama Governor George  वालेस   ,  a  डेमोक्रेट  .
क्युकी   वालेस  's campaign opposed federal  हस्तक्षेप  in the South to end school segregation  ,  he carried the  गहन  South and ran well  in  ethnic industrial districts in the North .
This was  the  last election in which New York  था  the most votes in  the  electoral  कॉलेज   (  43  मत  ) .
After the 1970  जनसांख्यिकी  ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  gained  the  most electoral  मत  and  रै   remained  the  सबसे  populous state  चूंकि  then .
This is the  नवीनतम  election  जहाँ   a   अध्यक्षीय  ticket  जीती  without carrying the  वाइस  presidential  प्रत्याशी  's home state  .
Karak  (  ; also known  as  Garak , Garrak  ,   और  Gorg  )   is  a village  in  Gamasiyab Rural District , in  the  Central District of  nahavand  County , Hamadan Province ,  इरान  .
At  the  2006  जनसांख्यिकी  , its  जनसांख्यिकी   थी  294 ,  in  65 families  .
Kurt  's  signature
कर्ट   डोनाल्ड  Cobain ( February  20  , 1967 – April 5  ,  1994 ) was an  अमरीकी   संगीतकार  and artist , best known as the lead singer  ,  guitarist and primary songwriter  of  the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed  निर्वाण  with  krist  Novoselic in  एबरडीन   ,  Washington  in   1985  and established it as  भाग   of  the Seattle music scene , having  इसके   डेब्यू  album  ब्लीच   released  on the independent  रिकार्ड  label  sub   पॉप   in  1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records  ,  the band  मिला   भेदन  success with  ``  Smells Like Teen  स्पिरिट  `` from  इसके   दूसरी   एल्बम  Nevermind  (   1991   )   .
Following  the  success  of  Nevermind , Nirvana  थी  labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X  ,  and Cobain  hailed   as  `` the spokesman of  a  generation ''  .
Cobain  ,  however , was  प्रायः  uncomfortable and  कुंठित   ,  believing  उसके  message and  कलाकारी   दृष्टि   to  have been  misinterpreted  by the public , with his personal issues often  विषय  to media attention .
he  challenged Nirvana  's   दर्शक  with its  फाइनल   स्टुडियो  album  in  Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years  of  his life  ,   कोबेन  struggled with heroin addiction ,  बीमारी  and depression  .
He also had difficulty coping with  उसके  fame and public  चित्र   ,  and  the   पेशेवर  and  lifelong  personal pressures surrounding  खुद  and  उसके   बीवी  ,  संगीतकार   कोर्टनी  Love .
on  April 8 ,  1994   ,  Cobain  थी   मिला  dead at his home in  सिएटल  , the victim  of   कया   थी  officially ruled  a  suicide  by  a  self-inflicted   shotgun  wound to the head .
The circumstances  of   उसके   मौत  at age  27   have  become a topic  of  public fascination and  बहस   .
चूंकि  their debut  ,  Nirvana  ,  with Cobain as a songwriter  ,  has sold over 25  लाख   एल्बम  in  the  U.S.  ,  and  over  50 million  विश्वव्यापी  .
A millwright  is  a craftsman or tradesman  सगाई   साथ   the  construction  और  maintenance of machinery  .
More  generally   in  the English  बोलना   संसार  ,  जल्दी  millwrights were specialist carpenters who  erected  machines used  in  agriculture , food processing and  प्रसंस्करण   lumber   और   पेपर  .
In  the  early part of the Industrial Revolution , their skills were pressed  into  service building the earliest powered  वस्त्र  mills .
Modern millwrights work  साथ  steel and other materials  in   जोड   to  wood and must often combine  the  skills  of  several skilled  ट्रेड  in  अनुक्रम  to successfully  fabricate   औद्योगिक   मशीनरी  or to assemble  मशीने   इससे  pre-fabricated parts  .
The  आधुनिक  millwright must  भी  be able to  पढ़ा  blueprints and other schematics to  सहायता  him  in  the  निर्माण  of complex  प्रणालियों  .
Millwrights  हैं   अक्सर  unionized , with around  45  % unionized  in   the   us  , although  अनुभवी  millwrights often  नियत  themselves  up   as  independent contractors  .
The Adjustment  ब्यूरो  is  a  2011 American romantic  कार्रवाई  thriller film loosely  आधारित  on the Philip K.  लंड  short story ,  ``   समायोजन  Team `` .
the  film was written and directed by George  nolfi   और   सितारों   मैट   डैमन  and Emily Blunt  .
the  cast also includes Anthony Mackie  ,   जॉन  Slattery ,  माइकल  Kelly , and Terence Stamp .
The score was composed  by  Thomas  न्युमैन  ,  साथ  two songs by Richard Ashcroft ( ``  भविष्य  's  उज्जवल  '' for  the  opening sequence  ;  `` Are You Ready ? '' for the closing  क्रेडिट  ) .
Sodium azide is the inorganic compound with the  सूत्र  NaN3 .
This colorless salt  is  the gas-forming  घटक  in many  car  airbag systems  .
it  is used for  the  preparation of  अन्य  azide compounds .
it  is an ionic substance , is highly  घुलनशील  in  जल   ,  and is very acutely toxic .
Double rainbow and supernumerary  rainbows  on  the  inside of  the  primary  चाप  .
The  छाया   of  the photographer 's head on the bottom marks the centre of the  रेनबो   वृत्त   (   antisolar   पाइंट  ) .
a   रेनबो   is  an optical  और  meteorological phenomenon that  is  caused by reflection of light  in  water droplets in the Earth 's atmosphere , resulting in a spectrum  of  light appearing in the  आसमान  .
it  takes the  रूप   of  a multicoloured arc  .
Rainbows  caused  by  धूप  always  appear   in   the  section  of  sky directly  विपरीत   the  sun .
In  a  `` primary rainbow '' , the arc shows red on the outer  भाग  and violet  on  the  भीतरी   पक्ष  .
This  रेनबो   is  caused by  लाइट  being refracted while entering a droplet of water  ,  then reflected inside on  the   वापस  of the  droplet  and  refracted  again when leaving  it   .
in   a   दोगुना  rainbow , a  दूसरी  arc is  देखी   बाहर  the primary arc  ,  and  रै   the   अनुक्रम  of its  रंग  reversed  ,  red facing  toward  the  अन्य   एक  , in  दोनो  rainbows .
इस  second rainbow  is  caused  by  light reflecting twice  अंदर  water droplets .
the  Conservative Party , officially  the  Conservative  और  Unionist Party and colloquially referred to as the Tory Party or the Tories , is a centre-right political party in the United Kingdom that  espouses  the philosophies  of   कोसा   और  British unionism .
it  is the largest  राजनैतिक  party  in  the United Kingdom , being the largest  सिंगल  party in the House of Commons with 303  mps   ,  the largest party in local government  साथ   9,391   पार्षदों  , and the largest  अंग्रेजों  party in  the   यूरोपीय  Parliament with  25  MEPs  .
It governs in coalition with the  उदार  Democrats , with party leader  दाउद   cameron   as  Prime  मंत्री  .
the   रूढ़िवादी  Party was founded  in   1834   ,  and was one  of   दो  dominant parties  in   the  19th  सदी  , along with the Liberal  पार्टी  .
it   बदला  its name to  the  Conservative and  यूनियनिस्ट  Party in  1912   बाद   विलय   साथ  the  उदार  Unionist Party  ,  although that name is  rarely  used and  it   is  generally referred to as simply  the   रूढ़िवादी   पार्टी  .
In the 1920s ,  the   उदार   vote  greatly  diminished  and  the  Labour Party became the Conservatives  '  main rivals .
Conservative Prime Ministers led governments for 57  सालो  of the  20th  century  ,   सहित  Winston Churchill ( 1940–45 ,  1951–55  )  और  Margaret Thatcher  (  1979–90 ) .
Thatcher  's  tenure led to wide-ranging economic  उदारीकरण  and saw the Conservatives  become   the  most eurosceptic  of  the three major parties .
The party was returned  to  government in coalition  ,   having   विफल   to   जीत  a majority ,  in   2010  under  the   अधिक   ``  liberal  ''  leadership  of  David  cameron  .
In the European  पार्लियामेंट  , the Conservatives are the largest British  पार्टी  with  25  MEPs , who  बैठना  with  the   नरम  eurosceptic European Conservatives  और  Reformists (  ecr  ) parliamentary group , while the party itself is a member  of  the  गठबंधन   of  European Conservatives and  reformists  ( AECR ) Europarty  .
They are  the  third-largest party  in   the  Scottish Parliament and second-largest  in  the Welsh  सभा  .
They were formally allied to  the  Ulster Unionist Party  (  UUP ) as part  of  the Ulster Conservatives and Unionists  व्यवस्था   ,  with  the   uup  currently participating in  the  five-party Northern Ireland Executive .
Destiny  's  Child was an American  r  & B girl  समूह  whose final , and perhaps most recognizable  ,   line-up  comprised  बेयोंस  Knowles , Kelly Rowland and  मिशेल  Williams .
Formed in  1990  in  ह्यूस्टन  , Texas  ,  Destiny 's Child members began  उनके  musical endeavors as Girl 's Tyme comprising , among others , Knowles  ,  Rowland , LaTavia Roberson and LeToya  luckett  .
After years of limited  कामयाबी   ,  they  यहूद  signed to  कोलंबिया  Records as Destiny  's   चाइल्ड   .
नियति  's  चाइल्ड  was launched into mainstream  मान्यता  following  the  release  of   उनके  best-selling second album , The Writing 's on the Wall  ,  which contained the number-one singles `` Bills , Bills , Bills ``  और  `` Say My Name  ``  .
Despite  नाजुक  and commercial  कामयाबी  , the group was plagued by internal conflict  और  legal  turmoil  ,  as   roberson  and Luckett attempted to split from the  समूह  's  मैनेजर   mathew   नॉलेस   ,  citing  favoritism  of Knowles and Rowland ,  उसके  daughter and niece  ,  respectively .
Both Roberson  और   luckett  were soon replaced with Williams  और  Farrah  फ्रैंकलिन   ;  however ,  in   2000  , Franklin was dismissed ,  leaving   उन्हें  as a trio  .
उनके   तीसरा  album ,  उत्तरजीवी  , which contains themes  the   पब्लिक  interpreted  as  a channel to the  समूह   's  experience  ,  contains  the  worldwide hits ``  स्वतंत्र  Women `` , `` Survivor `` and  ``   bootylicious   ``  .
In 2002 , they announced a hiatus and re-united  दो  years later for the release  of  their fourth  स्टुडियो  album ,  नियति  Fulfilled ( 2004 ) .
नियति   's  Child has sold  अधिक   than  50 million records  विश्वव्यापी  to date  .
Billboard  पत्रिका  ranks the  समूह  as one  of  the greatest  musical   trios  of all time ,  the  ninth most successful artist/band of  the  2000s , and placed the group  68th  in its All-Time Hot  100   कलाकारों  list  in  2008 .
the  Centers  लिये  Disease Control and Prevention (  सीडीसी  ) is  a  United States  संघीय  agency  अंतर्गत  the Department of  स्वास्थ्य  and Human Services headquartered  in  Druid Hills , unincorporated DeKalb County ,  जॉर्जिया   ,   in  Greater Atlanta .
it   works   to   protect   पब्लिक  health and safety by providing information to enhance health  निर्णय   ,  and  it  promotes health  through  partnerships with state health  विभाग  and other organizations .
the  CDC focus national attention on developing and  applying   बीमारी  prevention and  कंट्रोल  (  विशेषकर   संक्रामक  diseases and foodborne pathogens and other microbial infections ) , environmental health , occupational safety and health ,  स्वास्थ्य   प्रमोशन  ,  चोट  prevention and education  क्रियाएँ  designed  to  improve the health of the people of the United States .
The CDC is the United States ' national  पब्लिक  health  संस्थान  and is a founding  सदस्य   of  the International Association  of   नेशनल   पब्लिक   स्वास्थ्य   संस्थान  .
Earthquake  भविष्यवाणी   ``   is   प्रायः  defined  as  the specification  of  the  समय   ,   स्थान   ,  and  परिमाण   of   a   भविष्य   भूकंप  within stated limits '' ,  और   विशेषकर  of `` the  अगला  strong earthquake to occur in a  प्रदेश   .  ''
इस  can be  विशिष्ट  from earthquake forecasting , which  is   the  probabilistic assessment of general earthquake hazard  ,  including the frequency and magnitude of damaging earthquakes  ,  in  a  given area over periods of  सालो  or decades  .
This can be further distinguished  इससे  real-time earthquake warning systems ,  जिससे  , upon detection of  a  severe earthquake , can provide  neighboring   regions  a  few  seconds  चेतावनी   of  potentially significant shaking .
To be useful  ,   an  earthquake prediction must be precise enough to warrant  the  cost of increased  एहतियात   ,   सहित  disruption of ordinary  क्रियाएँ  and commerce ,  और  timely  पर्याप्त  that preparation  can   be  made .
पूर्वानुमान   जरूर  also be reliable  ,  as false alarms and cancelled alarms  हैं  not only economically  costly  , but  seriously  undermine confidence in ,  और  thereby the effectiveness of  ,   कोई  kind  of   चेतावनी  .
With over 7,000  भूकंप  around the world each year with a magnitude of 4.0 or  वृहद  , trivial  कामयाबी  in earthquake prediction is  easily  obtained using  fear   व्यापक   पैरामीटर्स   of  time , location ,  or   परिमाण  .
However  ,  such trivial  ``  successful  पूर्वानुमान   ''  are not useful .
Major earthquakes  हैं  often followed  by  reports that  वे  were  पूर्वानुमानित  , or  at  least  anticipated   ,   लकिन  no claim of a successful prediction of a  प्रमुख   भूकंप  has survived  बंद  inquiry  .
In  the  1970s there  थी   तीव्र   आशावाद  amongst  वैज्ञानिकों   कि  some method of predicting earthquakes  might   be  found , but by the 1990s continuing failure led many scientists to question whether it was even possible .
जबकि  many  वैज्ञानिकों  still  थाम  that , given enough resources ,  भविष्यवाणी  might be  संभावित   ,  many  अन्य   maintain  that earthquake prediction is  inherently   नामुमकिन  .
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan  (   born   may   13  , 1993 ) is an American actress  ,  singer , musician , songwriter and record  निर्माता  .
Ryan  is   बेहतरीन  known for starring  as  Bailey Pickett in the Disney Channel Original Series The Suite  जीवन   on  Deck .
In 2008  ,   the  Suite Life on Deck ranked  as  TV 's top series  among  kids 6-11 and  the  No  .  2 scripted series among tweens 9-14 .
Ryan started acting  in   पेशेवर  theatres  at  the  आयु   of  seven ; in 2007 she appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-DVD film Barney : Let  's  Go to the Firehouse and  तब   थी   खोजा  in a  देशभर   ढूंढें  by  डिज़्नी  .
She  is  also known  लिये  appearing in the 2008 feature film The Longshots as  एडिथ  .
In 2009 ,  वो  guest starred  in   an  episode  of   wizards  of  waverly   प्लेस  in Wizards on Deck with Hannah  मोंटाना   as   बेली  Pickett along  साथ   उसके  other cast  mates   इससे  The Suite Life  on  Deck  .
तब  ,  in  2010 , she starred in the film  16  Wishes , which was the  सबसे  watched cable  कार्यक्रम   on  the day  of   इसके  premiere  on  the  डिज़्नी   चैनल  .
16  बधाइयां  introduced Ryan to new audiences ;  the  movie received high viewership in the adults  जनसांख्यिकी  (  18-34  )  .
Soon after  कि  , Ryan starred  in  the independent  नाट्य   फिल्मी   ,  What If ... , which  premiered  on August  20   ,  2010 .
Ryan also starred  in   the  new Disney Channel  असली  movie ,  रेडियो  Rebel ,  जहाँ  she  portrays  the  भूमिका  of Tara Adams  ,  a shy 17-year-old  लड़की   जो  adopts the radio personality  ,  Radio Rebel .
released  February  17  , 2012 .
Ryan stars in the titular role in  the   डिज़्नी   चैनल  Original  श्रेणी   ,  Jessie  .
Stührling Tourbillon Movement  (  ) .
In horology ,  a   tourbillon   (  ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an  जोड  to  the  mechanics of a  देखें   escapement   .
Developed around 1795 by  the  French-Swiss watchmaker  abraham-louis   breguet  from an  पहले   विचार  by  the   अंग्रेज़ी  chronometer maker John Arnold  ,   a  tourbillon  aims  to counter the effects  of   गम्भीरता  by mounting the escapement  और   संतुलन  wheel in a rotating cage , to  negate  the effect of gravity when the timepiece (  यूँ   the   escapement   )  is  stuck   in  a certain position .
Originally an attempt to  improve  accuracy , tourbillons are still included in some  महंगी  modern watches as a novelty and  demonstration  of watchmaking  virtuosity  .
the  mechanism  is  usually exposed on the  देखें  's face to show  it  off .
The  खिड़कियाँ  Installer ( previously known as Microsoft Installer ) is a software  घटक  used for the  संस्थापना  , maintenance , and removal of software on modern Microsoft Windows systems .
The installation information , and  प्रायः  the files themselves ,  हैं  packaged in installation packages  ,  loosely relational  databases  structured as  com  Structured  storages  and commonly  ज्ञात   as  `` MSI  फाइलें  '' , from their default file extension .
Windows Installer contains significant changes  इससे  its predecessor ,  सेटअप   api   .
New features  शामिल   a  GUI framework and  स्वचालित   पीढी   of   the   uninstallation   अनुक्रम  .
Windows Installer  is   positioned   as  an alternative to  stand-alone  executable installer frameworks such  as  older versions  of   installshield  and NSIS .
microsoft  encourages third parties to use Windows Installer as the basis  लिये  installation frameworks  ,  so  कि  they synchronize  correctly  with other installers and keep the  आतंरिक   डेटाबेस   of  installed products consistent .
Important  सुविधाएँ   ऐसे  as rollback and versioning  निर्भर  on  a  consistent  आतंरिक  database  लिये  reliable operation  .
furthermore  ,  खिड़कियाँ   installer  facilitates the principle  of   तनिक  privilege by performing software  संस्थापना   by   प्रॉक्सी  for unprivileged  उपयोक्ता  .
Four  लोको   is   a  line  of  alcoholic  पेय  , originally marketed as  उर्जा   पेय  ,  बेची  by Phusion Projects of Chicago  ,  Illinois .
phusion  operates as Drink Four Brewing Company .
Four  लोको   ,  the company 's most popular beverage ,  debuted   in  the United States market in 2005 .
it  is  अभी   बेची   in   48  states , and in  कनाडा  , The Bahamas  ,   बोलीविया  , Honduras  ,  and Europe .
The name `` Four  ''  is derived from the original  उर्जा  drink 's four main ingredients :  दारू  , caffeine ,  taurine   ,   और  guarana .
चार  branded products have been  the  object  of  legal , ethical , and health concerns  सम्बन्धित  to the  कम्पनी  allegedly marketing  उन्हें  to the underaged and the  purported  danger  of  combining alcohol and  कैफीन  .
After  the   पेय  was banned  in  several states , a  उत्पाद  reintroduction in  दिसम्बर  2010  removed  caffeine  ,  taurine ,  और  guarana  as   संघटक  , and the malt beverage is  no   longer   marketed  as an  उर्जा   पेय  .
The neck  of  a guitar showing  the  nut ( in the background , coloured white ) and  पहला  four metal  frets  .
A fret is  a  raised element on the  गर्दन  of a stringed  यंत्र  .
Frets  प्रायः  extend across the full  चौडाई  of  the  neck .
On most  आधुनिक   पश्चिमी   fretted  instruments ,  frets  are metal strips  inserted  into  the   fingerboard   .
On some historical instruments  और  non-European instruments  ,  frets  हैं  made of pieces of string tied around the  गर्दन  .
Frets divide  the  neck into fixed  खण्ड   at  intervals related to a  musical   फ्रेमवर्क  .
on  instruments such  as  guitars  ,  each fret  represents  one  semitone   in  the standard western system where  एक  octave is divided into  बारह  semitones .
Fret is often used as  a  verb  ,   अर्थ  simply  ``   to  press down the  स्ट्रिंग  behind a fret . ''
fretting   प्रायः  refers  to  the frets and/or their system of placement  .
There was consumption  of  alcohol  दोनो  during and after  निषेध   .
the  18th Amendment  निषिद्ध  the production  ,   वितरण  and sale of alcoholic beverages in the  संयुक्त  States and was widely supported by the American  पब्लिक  when it went into effect in 1920 .
the   temperance   गति   था  popularized the belief  कि  alcohol was the  प्रमुख   कारण  of most personal and  सोशल  problems and prohibition was seen as the solution  to  the nation 's poverty , crime ,  हिंसा  , and other  ills  .
Upon ratification  of  the  amendment  , the  प्रसिद्ध  evangelist  बिली   संडे  said that `` The  slums  will  जल्द   be  only a  मेमोरी   .
We  होगा  turn our prisons  into  factories  और   हमारी  jails into storehouses and corncribs .  ''
(  compare  Christianity and alcohol  .   )
Since  दारू  was to be banned  और  since it was seen as  the   कारण  of  सबसे  ,  if   नहीं  all , crime  ,  some  समुदायों  sold their jails  .
The nation  थी  highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist  in  the United States  कॉंग्रेस  confidently asserted that `` There is  as  much chance of repealing the  eighteenth   amendment   as  there is for a hummingbird  to   मक्खी  to the  ग्रह  Mars  साथ  the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in American English  )  , ( SI  ईकाई   प्रतीक  : m ; SI  आयाम  symbol  :   l  ) , is the fundamental unit of  लंबाई   in   the  International System  of   इकाई  ( SI  )   .
Originally  intended  to  be  one ten-millionth of the  अलहदा  from the Earth  's   equator  to the  उत्तर  Pole (  at  sea level )  ,  its definition has been periodically  परिष्कृत   to  reflect growing  ज्ञान  of metrology  .
Since 1983  ,  it has been defined as `` the  लंबाई   of  the  पाथ  travelled by  लाइट  in vacuum during  a  time interval  of   1/299,792,458  of a  दूसरी  . ''
geologists  exploring Jurassic sedimentary rocks in Makhtesh Gadol  ,  Negev Desert ,  इसराईल
Geologists explaining  the  importance  of   volcanic  ash layers to  विद्यार्थी  on  फ़ील्ड  in  आइसलैंड
A geologist  is  a  वैज्ञानिक  who studies the solid and liquid matter  कि  constitutes the Earth  as  well  as   the   प्रक्रियाओं   और  history that has shaped it .
Geologists usually engage in studying geology  .
Geologists ,  अध्ययन  more of  an  applied  विज्ञान   than   a   सैद्धांतिक  one , must approach Geology using  भौतिकी  , chemistry and biology as well as other  sciences  .
Geologists ,  compared  to scientists engaged  in   अन्य  fields , are  generally   अधिक  exposed  to   the   बाहरी   than  staying  in   laboratories  ; although some  geologists   prefer  to perform most of their studies  in  the  lab  .
Geologists  हैं  engaged  in  exploration for  खनन  companies in search  of  metals , oils , and  अन्य  Earth resources .
They are also in the forefront of natural  जोखिमों  and  आपदाओं  warning and mitigation , studying earthquakes  ,   volcanic  activity , tsunamis  ,   मौसम  storms , and the  जैसे  ; their  अध्ययन   हैं  used to warn the  सामान्य  public of  the  occurrence  of  these events .
फिलहाल   ,  geologists  हैं  also engaged in the discussion of climate  बदलें  , as they study the  इतिहास  and evidence  लिये  this Earth  प्रक्रम  .
Below  is   a  comprehensive drill and tap  आकार  chart for  सब  drills  ,  imperial and metric ,  और  taps up  to  36.5 mm  .
Modern  वैक्यूम   tubes  , mostly miniature style
in  electronics , a  वैक्यूम  tube , electron  ट्यूब  (  in  North  अमेरिका  ) , thermionic valve , tube ,  or  valve  is  a  यंत्र   controlling  electric  वर्तमान  through  a  vacuum in a sealed container .
the  container is often  पतला  transparent  कांच  in  a  roughly cylindrical shape .
The simplest vacuum  ट्यूब  , the diode  ,  is essentially an incandescent light bulb with an  added  electrode inside .
When  the  bulb  's  filament  is  heated white-hot  ,  electrons  हैं  `` boiled '' off its surface  और  into the vacuum inside the  बल्ब   .
If the electrode -- called a `` plate ''  or  ``  धनाग्र  ''  --   is  made more  धनात्मक  than the  hot  filament  ,   a  direct  वर्तमान   बहती   through  the  वैक्यूम  to the  एलेक्ट्रोड  ( a  demonstration  of the  एडिसन  effect )  .
As  the  current only flows in  एक  direction , it makes it possible to convert an alternating current applied  to  the filament to direct  वर्तमान  .
the   परिचय   of  a third  एलेक्ट्रोड  , a grid between the filament  और   the  plate , yields  another  function  .
a  voltage  लागू  to  the  grid  नियंत्रण  the current flowing  इससे  the filament  to  the plate  .
Thus , it allows the device to be used as an electronic amplifier .
Vacuum  tubes  are thus used for  rectification  , amplification , switching  ,  or similar processing  or  creation  of   विद्युत  signals .
The  विशाल  majority of modern  दिन   tubes  consist of  a  sealed  संग्राहक  with  a   वैक्यूम   अंदर  , and essentially rely on thermionic  उत्सर्जन  of electrons from a hot filament  or   a  cathode  heated  by the filament .
Some exceptions to this are dealt with in  the  section about  gas-filled   tubes  below  .
वैक्यूम  tubes were critical  to  the development of  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   प्रौद्योगिकी   ,   जिससे  drove the expansion and commercialization of radio broadcasting ,  टेलीविज़न  , radar , sound reinforcement , sound  रिकॉर्डिंग  and  जनन  , large telephone networks ,  एनालॉग   और   डिजिटल  computers , and industrial process  कंट्रोल  .
Although some  अनुप्रयोग   था  counterparts using  पहले  technologies such as the spark gap  ट्रांसमीटर  or mechanical computers  ,   it  was the invention of the vacuum  ट्यूब  with three electrodes (  पुकारा   a   ट्रायोड  )  और   इसके  capability of electronic amplification  कि   बना  these technologies  फैली  and practical .
In most applications  ,   solid-state  devices such as  transistors   और  other semiconductor  डिवाइस  have  replaced   tubes  .
Solid-state devices  पिछला  longer  और  are smaller , more efficient , more reliable , and cheaper than tubes .
Tubes can be  नाजुक  , sometimes  generate  significant unwanted heat  ,   और  can take many seconds—many minutes in critical applications—after  powering   on  to  गरम   to  a temperature  जहाँ  they perform  भीतर  operational tolerance .
however   ,  tubes still  ढूँढें  uses where solid-state devices  have  not been developed ,  हैं  impractical  ,  or  जहाँ  a  ट्यूब   रै  superior performance  ,   as  with  कुछ  devices in professional audio  और  high-power radio transmitters  .
Tubes are still produced  लिये  such applications .
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor  डिवाइस  to  be  destroyed  by  the electromagnetic pulse  उत्पादित  by  नाभिकीय  explosions and geomagnetic storms produced by giant  सौर  flares .
Skittles is a  ब्रांड  of  fruit-flavoured  sweets , currently produced and marketed  by  the Wm . Wrigley  jr.  Company , a  प्रभाग  of Mars , Inc  .
They have hard  शुगर  shells which carry  the   अक्षर  S .
The inside  is  mainly sugar  ,  corn syrup , and hydrogenated  ताड़  kernel oil along with fruit juice ,  साइट्रिक   एसिड  , and natural  और   कृत्रिम   चटपटा   .
The  confectionery  has  महरूम  sold  in  a variety  of  flavour collections , such as Tropical  और   जंगली  Berry .
सर  Winston  लियोनार्ड   spencer-churchill  ,  (  30  नवम्बर  1874 – 24  जनवरी  1965 )  थी   a   अंग्रेजों  politician who was  the  Prime Minister of the  संयुक्त  Kingdom from 1940 to 1945  और  again  इससे   1951  to  1955  .
Widely regarded as one of the  महानतम  wartime leaders  of  the 20th  सदी  ,  चर्चिल  was also  an  officer in the  अंग्रेजों   फौज  , a historian , a writer , and an  कलाकार  .
he  is  the  only British Prime Minister  in  history to have  प्राप्त   the  Nobel Prize in Literature ,  और  was also  the   पहला  person to be  बना   an  Honorary Citizen of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   .
चर्चिल  was  born  into an aristocratic family as the grandson  of   the  7th Duke  of   marlborough  .
His father , Lord  randolph   चर्चिल   ,   थी  a charismatic  राजनेता   जो   परोसा   as  Chancellor  of   the   exchequer  ;  उसके  mother  ,  Jennie Jerome , was an American socialite .
As a  यंग   फौज  officer , he saw action  in  British India , The  सूडान  , and the Second Boer War .
He  gained  fame  as  a  युद्ध   correspondent  and wrote books  परिचय  his campaigns  .
At the forefront of politics  लिये   पचास  years , he held many political  और   कैबिनेट   स्थितियाँ  .
पहले  the  पहला  World War  ,  he served as President  of   the  Board  of  Trade  ,  Home Secretary  ,  and First Lord of the  admiralty   as  part of the Asquith  उदार  government  .
दौरान   the  war , he continued as First Lord  of  the Admiralty until the disastrous  gallipoli   अभियान  caused  उसके  departure from  सरकारी  .
He  तब  briefly  resumed   क्रियाशील  army  सेवा  on the  पश्चिमी  Front as commander  of   the  6th  बटालियन  of  the  Royal  स्कॉट्स  Fusiliers  .
He returned to  सरकारी  as Minister  of  Munitions ,  सचिव  of  राज्य   लिये  War , and  सचिव  of State for  एयर   .
बाद  the War , Churchill served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the  रूढ़िवादी   (   baldwin   )  government of 1924–29  ,   controversially   returning  the pound  स्टर्लिंग   in  1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity , a  मूव  widely seen as creating  deflationary  pressure  on  the UK economy .
भी  controversial was his opposition to increased  घर  rule  लिये   इण्डिया  and his  प्रतिरोध   to  the 1936  abdication  of  एडवर्ड  VIII  .
आउट   of  office and politically `` in  the  wilderness '' during  the  1930s , Churchill  took   the  lead in warning  परिचय   नाजी  Germany and in campaigning for rearmament .
on   the  outbreak  of  the Second  संसार   युद्ध  ,  he  was  again  appointed First Lord  of  the  admiralty   .
following  the resignation of  नेविली   चेम्बरलेन  on 10  may  1940  ,  Churchill became  प्रधान  Minister .
His steadfast refusal  to   consider  defeat ,  आत्मसमर्पण  , or  a  compromise peace  helped  inspire British resistance  ,  especially during the difficult early days of the War when Britain stood alone among European  देशों  in its  क्रियाशील   विपक्ष  to Adolf Hitler  .
Churchill was particularly noted for  उसके  speeches and radio broadcasts , which helped inspire the  अंग्रेजों  people .
He led Britain  as  Prime Minister until victory over Nazi Germany had been  secured  .
After the Conservative  पार्टी  lost the 1945  चुनाव  ,  he  became Leader  of  the Opposition to the Labour  (   attlee  )  सरकारी  .
बाद  winning the 1951 election , he again  became  Prime Minister , before  retiring  in  1955  .
Upon his death ,  एलिज़ाबेथ   ii  granted him the honour  of  a  राज्य  funeral ,  जिससे   देखी  one of the  largest  assemblies of  संसार  statesmen in history .
नामित  the Greatest Briton of all  समय  in a 2002  पोल   ,  Churchill  is  widely  regarded  as being among the most influential  लोगों  in  अंग्रेजों  history .
Ruby  gloom  is an animated television show  आधारित   on   an   वस्त्र  franchise .
the  show is  उत्पादित  by Nelvana and  began  airing  on  October 13 ,  2006  in Canada  on  the  संजाल  YTV .
It stars the voices of Sarah  gadon   ,  Emily  हैम्पशायर   ,   और  Peter  keleghan   .
The Ford  फ़ोकस  is  a   कॉम्पैक्ट  car  (  C-segment  in   यूरोपीय  )  manufactured   by  the Ford Motor Company  चूंकि  1998 .
घाट  began sales of the Focus  to  Europe in July  1998   और  in North  अमेरिका  during 1999  लिये  the 2000 model year  .
In Europe , South  अमेरिका  , North America  और   दक्षिण  Africa , the  फ़ोकस  replaced the various versions of  the  Ford Escort  बेची   in  those markets .
In  एशिया   और   australasia  , it replaced the Ford Laser .
As of  the  first  हाफ  of 2012 , the  फ़ोकस  surpassed the  टोयोटा  Corolla  to  become the  संसार  's best selling  ऑटोमोबाइल  nameplate .
The  फ़ोकस  has been considered  एक  of the 50  महानतम   गाड़ियाँ  of the  पास्ट  fifty  सालो  by  अंग्रेजों  magazine  car  .
An agar plate -- an example  of   a  bacterial growth medium .
Specifically , it is a streak plate  ;  the orange  लाइनों   और  dots are formed  by  bacterial  colonies  .
A growth medium or culture medium is  a  liquid  or   gel  designed  to   support  the growth of microorganisms or  कोशिकाएं  , or small plants like  the   मॉस  Physcomitrella patens .
वहीँ   हैं  different  प्रकार  of media  लिये  growing different types of cells .
There are two major  प्रकार  of growth media : those used for cell culture ,  जिससे   उपयोग  specific cell  प्रकार  derived  इससे  plants or animals ,  और   microbiological  culture , which are used  लिये   growing  microorganisms , such as bacteria or yeast .
The most common growth  मीडिया  for microorganisms are  nutrient   broths   और  agar  प्लेटों   ;  specialized media  हैं   sometimes  required  लिये   microorganism  and cell  संस्कृति  growth .
कुछ  organisms , termed fastidious  जीवों  ,  आवश्यकता  specialized environments  due  to complex  nutritional  requirements .
Viruses , for  उदाहरण  , are obligate intracellular parasites and require a growth medium containing living cells .
A talent agent , or  बुकिंग  agent ,  is  a person who finds  कार्य  for actors , authors  ,  film directors , musicians  ,  models , producers ,  पेशेवर   एथलीट   ,  writers and other people  in  various  entertainment  businesses .
An agent also defends  ,   supports  and promotes the interest of his/her clients .
Agents can not produce their own  shows  due  to  conflict of  ब्याज   .
A talent agent must be familiar with their clients  .
an  agent  रै  to know what kind  of  work  the  client can  और  can  नहीं  do in  अनुक्रम  to match them with various jobs .
Having an agent  is  not required , but does help the artist  in  getting  कार्य   .
in   अनेक  cases casting directors ,  or  other businesses , go to talent agencies to find artists they are looking for .
the  agent  is  paid a  प्रतिशत   of  the star 's  आय   (  typically  10   %  ) .
एजेंटों  sometimes will be  referred  to as `` 10 percenters . ''
There are different regulations  कि  govern  अलग  types of agents that  हैं   स्थापित  by  कलाकार   's  unions and the legal jurisdiction in which  the  agent operates .
There are also professional  संगठन  that license talent agencies .
Since  the  decline  in   viewership   in  theaters  ,   इससे  the 1950s to  1960s   ,   इस  caused a monumental  शिफ़्ट   in   कैसा  studios  होता   उपज  films and thus reducing  the  cost of exclusive and expensive  अभिनेताओं  .
Actors and actresses  यहूद  working for the studios but were not  स्वामित्व  by  एक  major studio entity and so were  समर्थ  to work on within  उनके  time  और  with other studios .
Because  of  this , agents were now seen  as  a  necessity  instead of an option .
Agents now became  तीसरा  parties  कि  negotiated between studios and  क्लाइंट  , this making their  सेवाएं  imperative  between  each  पार्टी   .
Since talent agencies  हैं   working  with lucrative contracts  ,  all talent agencies must be  licensed  under  खास  sections of the California Labor  कोड   ,  which calls  an   एजेंट   a  `` person or corporation who  engages   in  the  occupation  of procuring ,  offering  , promising ,  or  attempting  to   procure   नियुक्ति  for artist or artists .  ''
मंगल  has two known  moons  , Phobos and Deimos , which are thought to be captured asteroids .
Both  satellites  were discovered  in   1877  by Asaph  हॉल   और  are named after the  वर्ण   phobos  ( panic/fear  )   और  Deimos  (  terror/dread  )  who , in Greek mythology  ,  accompanied their  पिता   एरीस  , god of war , into  बैटल  .
Ares was known as Mars to  the  Romans .
It is possible that  मंगल  may  have  moons smaller than 50  -  100 meters  और  a dust ring between Phobos and Deimos may  be  present but none have been discovered  .
In  विधि  enforcement  parlance  , the term murder book  refers   to  the case file of  a  murder investigation  .
Typically  ,  murder books include crime scene photographs  और  sketches  ,  autopsy and  forensic  reports , transcripts of investigators ' notes and  गवाह  interviews  .
The  हत्या  book encapsulates the  पूरा  paper trail of a murder investigation  ,   इससे  the time the murder is first reported through  the  arrest of a  suspect  .
Law  प्रवर्तन  agencies typically  गार्ड  murder books carefully  ,  and it  is   असामान्य   लिये  civilians to be given unfettered  अभिगम  to these kinds of  रिकॉर्ड  , especially for unsolved  मामले   .
a   melon  baller
Melon balls are  गेंदें  of melon made using a melon  baller  that  varies   इससे   around  1  centimeter  to  3  centimeters  (  about 3/8  इंच   to   1  inch  )  .
They are  generally  used in fruit salad  .
a  KSA , or  ज्ञान  , Skills , and Abilities ,  is   a   श्रेणी  of narrative statements  कि   हैं   जरूरी   जब  applying  to  United States  संघीय  government job  उद्घाटन  .
KSAs are used to determine ,  साथ  with  resumes  , who the best applicants are  जब  several candidates  qualify  for a job  .
The  ज्ञान  , skills and  abilities   (  KSAs )  जरुरी  for the successful performance of a position are  contained  on  प्रत्येक   जॉब  vacancy announcement  .
In  2009   the  Office of Personal  प्रबन्धन  asked  संघीय  agencies  to   रोकें  requiring job  आवेदकों   to  fill out the questionnaires ,  to  be  phased  out within a year .
KSAs are brief  और   केन्द्रित  essays about  एक   's  career and educational background that presumably qualify  एक  to perform  the  duties of the  स्थिति  being applied  लिये   .
A  ज्ञान  ,  कौशल  , and abilities ( KSA  )  is  a  concise essay  परिचय   एक   's  talent  और  expertise and related  अनुभवों  ( work , education , volunteer ) and accomplishments .
A series of  ksa  statements are usually required  जब  applying for most federal government and some state  और  city government  कार्य  .
KSAs are  प्रयुक्त  as  a  yardstick  to   assess  the capabilities of a prospective  आवेदक  in terms  of  likely  क्षमता   to  perform  the  duties  of  the job  .
सबसे   सरकारी  hiring  officials   dekh   लिये  a  छोटी   ,  crisp and  साफ  KSA that emphasizes results or accomplishments  प्राप्त  in  पिछला  work .
KSA statements are also  ज्ञात   as  Evaluation  कारकों  .
अन्य  agencies sometimes call  उन्हें  `` Rating  कारकों  '' , `` Quality Ranking Factors '' , `` Knowledge , Abilities , skills and  अन्य  Characteristics '' ,  or  ``  जॉब  Elements  ''   .
The name can be just a name but often  it   प्रभाव   सामग्री  and length of the essay .
Every agency has its own regulations but most of the time the each KSA factor should be  1/2  to 11⁄2 pages long .
The below definitions are defined by  the   u.S.  Office of Personnel Management :
Knowledge  ,  Skills , and Abilities ( KSAs  )  - The attributes required to perform a  जॉब  and  हैं  generally demonstrated through  qualifying   सेवा   ,  education  ,  or training .
Knowledge - Is  a  body of information applied directly  to  the performance of a  फलन   .
Skill - Is  an  observable competence to  perform  a  सीखे  psychomotor  अधिनियम   .
क्षमता  - Is competence  to   perform  an observable  बर्ताव  or a  बर्ताव  that results in an  observable  product .
The scoring  of  KSA  essays  is based on  a  scale of from one  to   100   .
Job applicants  जरूर   स्कोर  above 70 to be  माना   लिये  the  स्थिति  .
High  स्कोर   हैं  derived through  answering   the  KSA question as specifically  as  possible , providing examples from  पिछला  employment  or   प्रशिक्षण   कि  clearly demonstrate you meet the qualifications .
जब  applying to federal government positions  ,  a  संघीय  Resume is usually required  in   जोड  to  ksa   कथन  .
right
Whole grains are cereal  दाने  that contain cereal  रोगाणु   ,  endosperm  ,  and bran ,  in  contrast to refined grains  ,   जिससे  retain only the endosperm .
Common whole grains include:
गेहूं
Oat
Barley - Hulled and Dehulled  (  not Pearl  )
Maize
Brown  राइस
Farro
Spelt
Emmer
einkorn
kamut
Rye
बाजरा
Quinoa
Amaranth
triticale
Teff
sprouted  Grains
Buckwheat
आम   पूरे   अनाज  products include:
Whole wheat flour
Whole wheat Bread
पूरे  wheat Pasta
Rolled oats or oat  groats
triticale  flour
पॉपकॉर्न
Teff  आटा
आम   परिष्कृत   non-whole  grain  उत्पाद  include:
Love  सदा  is the debut  एल्बम  of  अमरीकी  R &  b   duo  K-Ci &  जोजो   ,   released   on  June  17   ,  1997 ,  by   mca   रिकॉर्ड  .
It was recorded at various studios in  नई  York and the  लॉस  Angeles area in 1996  और  1997  .
It was produced by  जोजो  and several others , including DeVante Swing , James  mtume  , and  जेफ़  Redd .
The  duo  were originally a  भाग   of  Jodeci before this album .
The album peaked at sixth on the US  बिलबोर्ड  200  और  also appeared on  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   चार्ट   .
the   सिंगल  ``  सब  My  जीवन   ``  charted number  एक  in  अनेक  countries ,  और  all  चार  of  the  album 's singles  peaked  above the top 25 in the US Hot R & B/Hip-Hop  गीतों   और   the  New Zealand Top 40 Singles  .
प्रेम   सदा  was received  favorably   by  critics , who  praised  the brothers ' singing ability  और  the production .
The album has  महरूम  certified three times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and gold by Music  कनाडा   और  IFPI Sweden .
as  of June 1999 it had  बेची  2.9 million  नक़ल  in the United States .
A  variable-rate   बंधक  , adjustable-rate  बंधक  (  भुजा  ) , or tracker mortgage is a  बंधक   ऋण  with the interest rate on  the  note periodically  समायोजित   आधारित  on an index which reflects the cost  to   the  lender  of   उधार  on  the  credit  बाज़ार  .
The  ऋण  may be offered at the lender 's standard variable rate/ base rate .
वहीँ  may  be  a direct and legally-defined link to  the  underlying  अनुक्रमणिका  , but where the lender offers  no  specific link to the underlying market or  अनुक्रमणिका   the  rate can be changed  at  the lender 's discretion .
The term ``  variable-rate  mortgage '' is most common outside the United  राज्य  , whilst in  the  United States ,  ``   adjustable-rate   बंधक   ''  is most common , and  implies  a mortgage  regulated   by  the Federal  सरकारी  , with  कैप्स  on charges  .
In many countries  ,   समायोज्य  rate mortgages are  the  norm  ,  and in  ऐसे   स्थान  , may  बस   be  referred to as mortgages  .
among  the most common  indices  are the  दरों   on  1-year  constant-maturity  Treasury ( CMT )  प्रतिभूति   ,  the Cost of Funds  अनुक्रमणिका  ( COFI ) , and the London Interbank  offered  Rate  (   libor  )  .
A  few  lenders use  उनके  own  लागत  of funds  as  an index  ,   बल्कि   than  using other  indices   .
This is done to ensure a steady  हाशिया  for  the  lender , whose  अपना  cost  of   funding   होगा  usually be related to the  अनुक्रमणिका  .
Consequently , payments  बना  by the  borrower  may  बदलें  over  समय  with  the   बदलना  interest rate ( alternatively , the term of  the  loan may change ) .
इस   is  distinct  इससे  the graduated payment mortgage ,  जिससे   offers  changing  भुगतान   amounts  but a  फिक्स्ड  interest rate .
अन्य   फ़ॉर्म  of  बंधक  loan  शामिल   the   ब्याज  only mortgage ,  the  fixed rate mortgage , the negative amortization mortgage  ,  and the balloon payment mortgage  .
Adjustable rates transfer  भाग  of the  ब्याज  rate risk from the lender to  the  borrower  .
They can be used  जहाँ  unpredictable interest rates  मेक  fixed rate loans difficult to obtain .
The borrower benefits if  the   ब्याज  rate  जलप्रपात  but loses if  the  interest rate increases .
The  borrower   लाभ   इससे   घटाया  margins to the  underlying  cost  of  borrowing compared  to  fixed or  capped  rate mortgages .
the  assassination of  रॉबर्ट  Francis  ``  Bobby '' Kennedy , a United States  सीनेटर  and brother of assassinated President John Fitzgerald  ``   जोकर  '' Kennedy , took place  shortly   बाद  midnight on June 5 ,  1968   ,   in  Los Angeles , California , during  the   अभियान   ऋतु   लिये  the United States Presidential election , 1968 .
After  जीतना  the California and South Dakota primary elections for  the   लोकतांत्रिक  nomination  लिये  President of the United States  ,  Kennedy was shot as he  walked   through  the kitchen  of   the  Ambassador Hotel and died  in  the  शुभ  Samaritan Hospital twenty-six hours later  .
sirhan   sirhan  , a 24-year-old Palestinian / Jordanian immigrant  ,  was convicted of  कैनेडी  's murder and is serving a life sentence for the crime .
sirhan  's lawyers  have  released  कथन  claiming  प्रमाण  that he  थी  framed .
The  शूटिंग  was recorded  on  audio tape  by  a  freelance  newspaper reporter , and the aftermath was captured on  फिल्मी  .
कैनेडी  's body lay  in  repose  at  St.  पैट्रिक  's Cathedral in New  यॉर्क  for two days  पहले  a  अंत्येष्टि  mass  थी   आयोजित  on June 8 .
His body  थी   interred  near  उसके   bhai  John at Arlington National Cemetery .
His death  prompted  the protection of presidential candidates by  the  United States Secret Service .
Hubert Humphrey went on to win the Democratic  नामांकन  for  the  presidency , but ultimately narrowly  खोया  the  चुनाव   to  Richard Nixon .
As  साथ  his  bhai  Jack 's death ,  bobby   's   हत्या  and the circumstances surrounding it  have  spawned a variety of conspiracy theories  .
as  of  2013  Kennedy remains  एक  of only  दो  sitting United  राज्य  Senators  to  be assassinated ( the other being Huey  long  ) .
The Modern Age  of  Comic Books is an informal name for the period in the  इतिहास  of  मुख्यधारा   अमरीकी   कॉमिक  books generally considered to last  इससे  the mid-1980s until present  दिन  .
In this period , comic book  वर्ण   generally   became   गहरा   और   अधिक   psychologically   जटिल  ,  creators  became  better-known  and active in changing the  उद्योग   ,  independent  कॉमिक्स   flourished  ,  और   larger  publishing houses  became   अधिक  commercialized .
an  alternate name  लिये   इस  period  is  the Dark  आयु  of Comic Books , due to  the  popularity and artistic influence of grim titles , such as and Watchmen .
When Harry Met Sally ...  is   a   1989  American romantic comedy film written by Nora Ephron and  निर्देशित  by  रोब   reiner  .
It stars Billy  क्रिस्टल  as  हैरी  and Meg Ryan as Sally  .
The  स्टोरी   फ़ॉलो   the  title characters from  the  time they  मिलें   बस  before sharing a cross-country drive  ,  through twelve years or so  of   मौका  encounters in New York City .
the  film raises  the  question `` Can  मेन  and women ever  बस   be  friends  ?  '' and advances  अनेक  ideas  परिचय  relationships that became household  अवधारणाओं  , such as those of  the  ``  ''   गर्लफ्रेंड  and the `` transitional person '' .
the   origins  of the film  आए  from  reiner   's   वापसी  to  सिंगल  life after  a   तलाक   .
An interview Ephron  conducted  with Reiner provided  the   आधार  for Harry  .
सैली  was  आधारित  on Ephron  और  some  of  her  मित्रों  .
क्रिस्टल  came on  फलक  and made his own contributions to  the  screenplay , making Harry funnier .
Ephron supplied  the  structure of the  फिल्मी   साथ  much of the  संवाद  based on the real-life friendship between  reiner  and Crystal .
The  साउंडट्रैक  consists  of  standards performed  by   हैरी  Connick  ,  Jr. ,  साथ   a   बिग  band  और  orchestra arranged by Marc Shaiman .
Connick  जीती  his first Grammy Award for Best  जैज़  Male Vocal Performance .
Columbia Pictures released the  फिल्मी  using the  ``  platform '' technique ,  जिससे  involved opening it in  a   few  select cities , letting  धनात्मक  word of mouth generate  ब्याज  ,  और  then gradually expanding distribution over subsequent weeks .
When  हैरी   मिले   सैली  ... grossed a  कुल  of US  $  92  .8  million in North  अमेरिका  .
Ephron received  a  British Academy Film  पुरस्कार  , an Oscar nomination ,  और  a Writers  गिल्ड   of   अमेरिका  Award nomination for her screenplay .
The film is  क्रमित   23rd  on  एएफआई   's  100  सालो   ...  100 Laughs list of  the  top  कॉमेडी  films  in  American cinema and number 60 on  ब्रावो  's `` 100 Funniest Movies ''  .
in   जल्दी  2004 , the film was adapted for the  स्टेज  in a  उत्पादन   अभिनीत  Luke Perry and Alyson Hannigan .
200px
Hamburger  हेल्पर  is a  लकीर  of packaged food  उत्पाद  primarily  consisting  of boxed pasta bundled with a packet or packets of  powdered  sauce or  seasonings   .
the  contents of each box are  संयुक्त  with browned ground beef  ,  water and milk to  बनाएँ  a complete dish  .
The  उत्पाद  line  भी   सुविधाएँ   उत्पाद  with other starches such as rice  or  potatoes instead of  पास्ता   .
It is made by General Mills .
Although the  क्लासिक   boxed  Hamburger  हेल्पर  products only supply  the   मंड  item  और  the sauce  पैकेट्स  , some  किस्में  of  the  product  शामिल   मैदान  beef .
These  शामिल   a  frozen food line  ,  which features some of the brand 's classic varieties in  a  complete meal  kit   रूप  , with frozen ground beef  और   frozen   सॉस  packaged separately  इससे  the  नूडल्स  in  the   वही  bag .
वहीँ   is  also an `` instant '' version of Hamburger Helper containing  निर्जलित   मांस   ,  noodles  और   seasonings  in  a  small pouch , requiring  तभी  water to be  added   .
The Hamburger Helper mascot is the  ``  Helping Hand  ''  , an anthropomorphic animated , four  fingered  left-hand glove , which  appears  in  the   उत्पाद  's  टेलीविज़न   commercials  and on the  पैकेज  .
Ceres as  देखी  with the Hubble Space Telescope .
It  is  the  तभी   बौना  planet in  the  asteroid belt  .
प्लूटो  in  सन्निकट  true  रंग  based on  हबल  Space Telescope  ऐल्बीडो  data
Haumea with its  moons  , Hiʻiaka and Namaka  (   कलाकार  's conception )
Makemake  (  artist 's  धारणा  )
eris  and its  चंद्रमा  Dysnomia as seen with the Hubble  स्पेस  Telescope
A dwarf  ग्रह  is a planetary-mass  ऑब्जेक्ट   कि   is  neither a planet nor a  उपग्रह  .
More explicitly , the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a  बौना  planet as  a   celestial  body in  सीधा  orbit of  the  Sun that is massive  पर्याप्त  for  इसके  shape to  be  controlled by gravitation ,  लकिन  that unlike a planet  रै  not cleared  इसके  orbital region of other objects  .
The term  बौना  planet was adopted  in  2006 as part of a three-way categorization of bodies  orbiting  the Sun  ,   brought  about by an increase in discoveries of trans-Neptunian  वस्तुएँ  that  rivaled   प्लूटो  in size  ,   और   आखिरकार   precipitated  by the discovery of an  भी  more  विशाल   ऑब्जेक्ट  , Eris  .
इस   वर्गीकरण  states that  लाशें  large enough to  have  cleared the neighbourhood  of  their orbit are defined  as  planets  ,  while those that are not massive enough to be  rounded   by  their own gravity are defined as  छोटी   सौर  System  लाशें   .
Dwarf  ग्रह  come  in  between .
The exclusion of dwarf  ग्रह  from the  रोस्टर  of planets by  the   iau   रै  been both  praised   और  criticized ;  it  was said to be the  ``  right decision  ''   by  Mike Brown , who discovered  और  other new dwarf planets , but has been  अस्वीकृत   by  Alan  stern   ,  who had coined the term  बौना   ग्रह  in 1990 .
the  IAU currently recognizes  पाँच  dwarf planets  in   the  Solar System : , Pluto  ,   ,  , and .
However , only two of these  लाशें  , Ceres and Pluto  ,  have been  observed  in enough detail to demonstrate  कि  they  अनुरूप  the  परिभाषा   .
Eris has been accepted as a dwarf planet because it  is  more massive than  प्लूटो  .
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed trans-Neptunian  वस्तुएँ  with an absolute  परिमाण  brighter than  +1  (  और  hence a diameter  of  ≥838 km assuming a geometric  ऐल्बीडो   of   ≤1  ) are  to  be named under  the   assumption  that they are  बौना   ग्रह  .
The only two such objects known  at  the time  ,  Makemake and Haumea , went  through  this naming procedure and were declared to be dwarf  ग्रह   .
It  is  suspected that another  सौ  or so known objects in the  सौर   प्रणाली   हैं  dwarf planets .
Estimates are that  up   to  200 dwarf planets may be  मिला  when the  संपूर्ण   प्रदेश  known as  the  Kuiper belt is explored  ,   और  that  the  number may exceed 10,000 when objects scattered  बाहर  the Kuiper belt are  माना   .
Individual  खगोलशास्त्रियों  recognize  अनेक   of  these  ,  and in August 2011  माइक   भूरा   प्रकाशित  a list of  390  candidate objects  ,   ranging  from `` nearly certain  ''   to  `` possible '' dwarf planets  .  '
Brown  identifies  nine  ज्ञात  objects  –  the five accepted by the  iau   प्लस  , ,  ,  and  –  as  ``   वस्तुतः   निश्चित   ''   ,  with another two  दर्जन  highly likely  ,  and there  हैं   संभवतः  a  सौ   or   so  such  वस्तुएँ  in  कुल  .
the  classification  of  bodies in other planetary systems  साथ   the  characteristics  of  dwarf planets has  नहीं  been addressed .
A debit card ( also known as a  बैंको   कार्ड  or  जाँच   कार्ड   )   is  a plastic payment card that provides  the  cardholder electronic access  to  his  or  her  बैंको  account ( s  )   at  a financial institution .
Some  ताश  have a  भंडारित  value  साथ  which a payment  is  made  ,   जबकि  most  रिले   a  message to the cardholder 's bank to  withdraw   निधि  from a payee  's  designated bank account .
The card , where accepted , can be used  बजाय  of cash when making purchases .
In some cases , the primary account  क्रमांक  is assigned exclusively for  उपयोग   on  the Internet and  वहीँ   is  no physical  कार्ड  .
In many countries ,  the   उपयोग  of debit cards has  become  so widespread that their  आवाज़  has overtaken or  entirely   replaced  cheques and , in some instances  ,   नकदी  transactions .
the  development of debit cards  ,  unlike credit cards and  चार्ज  cards , has generally been country  विशिष्ट  resulting in a  क्रमांक   of   अलग   प्रणालियों   around  the world  ,  which  यहूद  often incompatible .
Since the  mid-2000s  ,  a  number of  पहलों   have  allowed  डेबिट  cards  जारी  in one country  to  be  प्रयुक्त  in other countries and allowed their use for internet and phone purchases  .
Unlike credit and  चार्ज  cards ,  भुगतान  using a  डेबिट  card are  तत्काल  transferred from the cardholder  's  designated bank  खाता   ,  instead of them paying the money back  at   a  later date .
डेबिट  cards usually  भी  allow for  तत्काल   वापसी  of cash , acting as the ATM  कार्ड   लिये  withdrawing  नकदी  .
Merchants may  भी  offer  cashback  facilities to customers , where a customer can  withdraw  cash along with their purchase  .
Francois Henri ``  जोकर   ''   lalanne   (  September 26  ,  1914 - January 23 , 2011 )  थी  an American  फ़िटनेस  , exercise , and nutritional  विशेषज्ञ   और  motivational  स्पीकर  who  is  sometimes called  ``  the  गॉडफादर  of fitness '' and the ``  पहला  fitness  सुपरहीरो   .  ''
He described  खुद  as  होने  a ``  sugarholic  ''  और  a `` junk food junkie '' until  he   थी  15 .
He  भी  had  behavioral  problems  ,   लकिन  `` turned his  जीवन   around  '' after  सुनना  to a public  लेक्चर   by  Paul  ब्रैग   ,  a  well-known   पोषण  speaker .
During  उसके  career , he  आए   to  believe that  the  country  's  overall  स्वास्थ्य  depended  on   the   स्वास्थ्य  of  इसके  population  ,  writing that  ``  physical culture and nutrition — is  the  salvation of America . ''
Decades before health and  फ़िटनेस   began  being  प्रचारित  by celebrities like  जेन  Fonda  और  Richard Simmons  ,   lalanne  was already widely recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of regular exercise and a  शुभ  diet .
He published numerous books on fitness and hosted a fitness television show  between   1953  and 1985 .
as  early  as  1936 , at age 21 ,  he  opened one of the  स्वदेश  's  पहला   फ़िटनेस   gyms   in  Oakland  ,  California , which became a  प्रोटोटाइप  for dozens of  समान   gyms   using   उसके   नाम  .
One  of  his 1950s television  कसरत  programs was  aimed  toward women  ,   जिसको   he  also encouraged to join his health  क्लब  .
He invented a number  of  exercise  मशीने  , including leg-extension and  चरखी   डिवाइस  .
Besides producing his  अपना  series of videos ,  he  coached  the  elderly  और  disabled not to  forgo  exercise , believing it  होता  enable them  to  enhance their strength .
LaLanne  भी  gained recognition for  उसके  success as a  bodybuilder   ,  as well as  लिये  his prodigious feats of strength .
अर्नाल्ड  Schwarzenegger once stated  ,  ``  कि  Jack  lalanne  's an  एनिमल   !  , ''  बाद   lalanne  , at 54 , beat a 21-year-old Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an informal contest .
on  the occasion of LaLanne 's death  ,  Schwarzenegger credited  lalanne   लिये   होने  `` an  apostle  for fitness '' by inspiring ``  अरबों   सब  over  the   संसार  to live healthier lives  ,  '' and  ,  as  राज्यपाल  of California  ,  had  पहले   लगाई  him on  उसके  Governor  's  Council on Physical Fitness .
Steve  रीव्स   credited  LaLanne  as  his inspiration  to   निर्माण   उसके  muscular physique while keeping a  पतला  waist  .
He was inducted to the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  Hall of Fame and has  a  star  on  the Hollywood  चलना  of Fame .
Air forces of most of the  देशों  use system  समान  to Armies  .
However , the RAF and the air forces  of  many Commonwealth  देशों  , or those  formerly  under  a   अंग्रेजों  influence  ,   उपयोग  a different set of ranks loosely based  on  naval equivalents ;  लेफ्टिनेंट  , Commander , Captain  और  Commodore are  prefixed  for air force use  साथ  Flight ,  wing  , Group and Air ,  क्रमशः   (  the  पहला  three  होने   the   इकाई  that  वे  used to  कमांड   )  .
Penélope Cruz Sánchez ( ; born  अप्रैल  28  ,  1974 )  is  a Spanish actress  .
Signed  by  an  एजेंट  at  आयु  15  ,  she made  उसके   एक्टिंग  debut  at  16 on  टेलीविज़न  and her feature film debut the following year in  jamón   ,   jamón  ( 1992 ) , to critical acclaim .
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s included Open  अपना  Eyes  (   1997  ) ,  the  Hi-Lo Country ( 1999 ) , The Girl  of   अपना  Dreams (  2000  ) and  स्त्री  on Top  (  2000 )  .
क्रूज़  achieved recognition  लिये   उसके  lead roles in  the  2001 films Vanilla Sky and Blow  .
She has  चूंकि  built  a  successful career ,  appearing  in films from  a   चौड़ी   दायरा   of  genres , including the comedy Waking Up in Reno ( 2002 )  ,  the  थ्रिलर  Gothika ( 2003  )   ,  the Christmas  फिल्म   नोएल   (  2004  )   ,   और  the action adventure  सहारा   (   2005  )  .
She  रै   प्राप्त  critical acclaim for her  भूमिकाएँ  in Volver  (   2006  ) and Nine ( 2009 ) receiving Golden Globe and  अकादमी   पुरस्कार  nominations  लिये  each .
She won the  अकादमी  Award  लिये  Best Supporting Actress in 2008 for  विक्की  Cristina Barcelona .
She  थी  the first Spanish actress in  इतिहास  to  प्राप्त   an   अकादमी  Award and the first Spanish  अभिनेत्री   to  receive  a   स्टार   at   the  Hollywood  चलना  of Fame .
Cruz has  modeled   लिये  companies  ऐसे  as  आम   ,  Ralph  लॉरेन  and L'Oréal  .
Penélope and her  younger   सिस्टर  Mónica Cruz have designed items  लिये  Mango  .
She has donated both  उसके  time and money to charities .
Cruz has volunteered in  युगांडा   और   इण्डिया  , where she spent  एक  week working for Mother  टेरेसा  ; she  दान  her  सैलरी  from ' to help  निधि  the  लेट  nun 's mission  .
A wax sculpture of Cruz  होगा   be  placed  in  a  प्रीमियर   स्पॉट   in  the Grevin Wax Museum in Paris  .
File Explorer  ,  previously known as Windows Explorer ,  is  a file manager application and  भी  a navigation tool  कि  is included with releases of the Microsoft Windows  ऑपरेटिंग  system  इससे  Windows 95 onwards .
it   provides   a   आलेखीय  user interface for  accessing  the file systems  .
It is  भी  the component  of  the  ऑपरेटिंग   प्रणाली   कि  presents many user interface  वस्तुएं  on  the  monitor such as the taskbar and desktop .
Controlling the computer  is  possible without Windows Explorer running ( for example , the  संचिका  | Run  कमांड  in Task Manager on NT-derived versions of Windows will function without it , as  होगा   कमांड  typed  in  a  कमांड  prompt window ) .
स्तिथ  in the  c  : \Windows directory  ,  it is  sometimes  referred  to   as  the  खिड़कियाँ   शेल  ,  explorer.exe  , or simply “Explorer”  .
The Care Bears  हैं   वर्ण  created by American Greetings in 1981 for  उपयोग  on  ग्रीटिंग  cards .
The  असली  artwork for  the   ताश  was  चित्रित  by artist Elena Kucharik .
In 1983 , Kenner turned the Care  bears  into  plush   टेडी   bears  .
The Care Bears appeared  in   उनके  own TV specials called The Care Bears  in   the  Land Without  जज्बात   (  1983 ) and The  परवाह  Bears Battle the Freeze Machine (  1984  ) .
They also had their own television series  इससे  1985  to   1988  , in addition  to   तीन  feature films : The Care Bears  फिल्म   (   1985  ) , Care Bears Movie II :  a  New Generation ( 1986 )  ,  and The  परवाह  Bears  एडवेंचर   in  Wonderland ( 1987 )  .
प्रत्येक  Care  भालू  comes  in  a different color and has  a  specialized insignia on  इसके  belly that represents  इसके  duty and  व्यक्तित्व   .
This  तमगा  was known as  उनके  ``  tummy  symbol . ''
however   ,  the  फिल्म   परवाह  Bears  :  Oopsy Does It ! renamed them `` belly  बैज  '' .
Adding to the Care Bear family  हैं  the `` Care Bear Cousins  ''  , which  विशेषता  a  शेर  , rabbit  ,  penguin ,  raccoon  , and other such animals  निर्मित   in   the  same style  as  the teddy  bears   .
In 2002  ,   the  bears were reintroduced  साथ  new toys  .
Made by Play-Along  खिलौने   ,  the new toys offered features  ऐसे  as  illuminated   bellies  upon touch  ,  aerobic bears ,  और  glow-in-the-dark bears  .
As  भाग  of  इस   वापसी  , the Bears have  appeared  in  दो  computer-animated  फिल्मों  : Care Bears :  यात्रा  to Joke-a-lot  (   2004  ) and  the   परवाह   bears  ' Big Wish Movie ( 2005  )  .
In 2007  ,   the   मताधिकार  celebrated  इसके   25th  anniversary  ;   another  relaunch took place , as well  as   the  release of Care  bears   :  Oopsy Does It  !   .
In  mid-2011  , AG announced a  पुनरुद्धार  TV animated  श्रेणी  titled ``  परवाह  Bears  :   स्वागत  to Care-a-Lot  ``   .
The premiere of the series  utilizes   ``  30 years of  देखभाल  '' .
It premiered on The  हब  on June  2  ,  2012  .
As of  2013  , Care Bears  merchandise  is  स्टिल  being marketed .
During 2008  और  2009 , Canada 's Cookie  जार   समूह   और  France 's  moonscoop  Group attempted to acquire  the  franchise from AGC  ,  with  no  apparent  कामयाबी  .
Interstate 70  (  I-70 ) is an  अंतरराज्यीय  Highway in  the   संयुक्त  States that  रनों  from Interstate 15  निकट  Cove  फोर्ट   ,  Utah , to a Park and Ride near Baltimore  ,  Maryland .
it  was  the  first Interstate Highway project in the  संयुक्त  States .
i-70  approximately  traces   the  path  of  U.S. Route  40  ( and  भी   the  old National  सड़क  ) east of  the  Rocky Mountains  .
वेस्ट  of the Rockies , the  रूट  of I-70 was derived from multiple sources  .
I-70  is  the  पांचवां  longest Interstate Highway ,  बाद   i-90  , I-80  ,  I-40 , and I-10 .
the  construction of  i-70  in Colorado and Utah  is   माना  an engineering  आश्चर्य   as   the  route passes through the Eisenhower  टनल  ,  glenwood  Canyon ,  और  the  सैन   राफेल  Swell  .
The Eisenhower Tunnel  is  the highest point  साथ  the  अंतरराज्यीय  Highway system with an elevation of .
The  भाग  of the  अंतरराज्यीय  in  मिसौरी   और  Kansas have laid  अर्जी  to be  the  first  अंतरराज्यीय  in  the  United  राज्य  .
हालांकि  disputed , the Federal Highway  प्रशासन   रै  claimed the  खण्ड  of  i-70  through Glenwood Canyon ,  समाप्त   in  1992 , was the last  टुकड़ा   of   the  Interstate Highway system , as  originally   नियोजित  , to open  to  traffic .
Photo of  1999   कुल  eclipse
as  seen from the Earth , a  सौर  eclipse occurs when the  चंद्रमा  passes between the Sun and Earth  ,  and the Moon  fully   or   partially  blocks (  ``   occults  `` ) the Sun  .
इस  can happen only  at  new moon ,  जब  the  सूर्य  and the Moon are in conjunction as seen  इससे   धरती   in  an alignment referred to  as   syzygy   .
In a total eclipse , the  डिस्क  of the Sun is fully obscured  by  the Moon .
in  partial and  annular  eclipses only part  of   the  Sun is obscured .
if   the  Moon  यहूद  in a perfectly circular orbit , a little closer to the Earth , and in  the  same orbital  प्लेन   ,  there would be total solar eclipses every single  माह  .
However , the  चंद्रमा  's orbit is inclined (  tilted  )  at   अधिक  than  5   डिग्री   to  Earth 's  कक्षा  around the Sun ( see  ecliptic  )  so  its shadow  at  new moon usually misses Earth  .
Earth 's orbit is called  the   ecliptic   प्लेन   as   the  Moon 's orbit must cross this plane in  अनुक्रम   लिये  an eclipse ( both  सौर  as well  as  lunar  )  to  occur  .
In addition  ,  the Moon 's actual orbit is elliptical  ,  often taking  it  far  पर्याप्त   दूर   इससे   धरती  that  इसके  apparent size  is  not large enough to block the Sun totally .
The orbital planes  क्रॉस   प्रत्येक  year at a  लकीर  of nodes resulting  in   at  least two ,  और  up to  पाँच  ,  सौर   eclipses   occurring  each year  ;  no more  than   दो   of  which can be  कुल  eclipses .
However , total  सौर  eclipses are rare at  कोई  particular  स्थान  because totality  exists  only along a  सीमित  path on Earth 's surface traced by  the   चंद्रमा  's  छाया   or  umbra  .
An eclipse is a natural  घटना  .
nevertheless   ,   in   कुछ   प्राचीन  and modern cultures  ,   सौर  eclipses have been attributed  to  supernatural causes or regarded as bad omens  .
A total solar eclipse can  be  frightening to  लोगों   जो   हैं  unaware of  इसके  astronomical explanation , as the Sun seems  to  disappear during the day and the sky darkens in a  पदार्थ  of minutes .
Because it is  खतरनाक  to  dekh  directly at the Sun , observers should use special eye  सुरक्षा  or  अप्रत्यक्ष  viewing techniques when viewing a  आंशिक  eclipse ,  or   the  partial phases of  a  total eclipse  .
It is  सुरक्षित  to view the total  phase  of a total  सौर   ग्रहण  with the unaided eye and without  सुरक्षा   ,  however .
People referred  to   as   ग्रहण  chasers  or   umbraphiles   होगा  travel to remote  स्थितियाँ   to  observe or  गवाह  predicted central solar eclipses  .
a  political party (  इससे   ,  Genitive partis  ,  `` part '' , `` portion '' ) is a political  संगठन   कि  typically seeks to influence , or entirely control  ,  government policy  ,  usually by nominating candidates with  लकीर   राजनैतिक  views and  trying  to  सीट   उन्हें  in political office  .
Parties participate in  चुनावी   अभियान   और  educational  मंगवाने   or   विरोध  actions  .
Parties often  espouse  an ideology or vision , expressed in a party  कार्यक्रम  ,  bolstered  by a written platform with  विशिष्ट  goals , forming a  गठबन्धन   among  disparate interests .
the   आम   is  a fleshy  स्टोन  fruit belonging to  the  genus Mangifera , consisting of numerous tropical  fruiting  trees  in   the  flowering  संयंत्र   परिवार  Anacardiaceae .
The mango  is   देशी  to  दक्षिण  Asia , from  जहाँ   it   रै   महरूम  distributed worldwide to become one of the most cultivated fruits  in   the   ऊष्णकटिबन्ध   .
जबकि  other  mangifera  species ( e.g . horse mango , M. foetida ) are also grown on a  अधिक  localized  आधार  ,  mangifera  indica –  the  'common mango ' or  'इण्डियाn  mango ' – is the only mango tree  commonly   cultivated   in  many  तीव्र  and subtropical  regions  .
It  is  the national fruit of India ,  पाकिस्तानी  and Philippines .
in  several cultures , its fruit  और   पत्ते   हैं   ritually  used as floral decorations at weddings  ,   पब्लिक  celebrations and religious ceremonies .
गिल  Arnette Byrd , <  संदर्भ  name > http  :  //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/B/ByrdGi00.htm (  born   फ़रवरी  20 , 1961 in San  फ्रांसिस्को   ,  California ) is a former professional  अमरीकी  football player .
he   थी   a   दो  time  प्रो  Bowl cornerback  in   1991   और   1992  for the  सैन   डिएगो  Chargers after  graduating   इससे  San Jose  राज्य  University .
Byrd was inducted into the  chargers  Hall of Fame in 1998 .
He was an All-City running  वापस   और  defensive back at Lowell High  स्कूल  (  सैन  Francisco ) , helping to lead the Cardinals  to   the  city  चैंपियनशिप  in his senior  ऋतु  of 1978 .
World map showing the  tropic  of Cancer
the  Tropic of Cancer , also referred  to   as   the  Northern  tropic  ,  is  the circle of  अक्षांश  on the  धरती   कि   marks  the most northerly position  at  which the  सूर्य  may  appear  directly overhead at its zenith .
इस   इवेंट  occurs  एकबार   प्रति  year , at the time  of  the June  संक्रांति  , when  the   उत्तरी   गोलार्ध  is tilted toward the  सूर्य  to  इसके  maximum  extent   .
It  फिलहाल  ( Year 2013 ) lies at  23°   26′  15.143′′ north of the Equator .
इसके  Southern Hemisphere counterpart , marking  the   सबसे  southerly position at which the Sun may appear  सीधे  overhead ,  is  the  tropic  of  मकर  .
ये  tropics are  दो  of  the  five major degree  उपायों  or major  वृत्त  of latitude  कि   चिह्नित  maps of the Earth ,  besides   the   आर्कटिक   और  Antarctic Circles and the Equator  .
the   स्थितियाँ   of   ये   वृत्त  of latitude ( other  than  the  equator  ) are dictated by the tilt of the Earth 's axis of rotation relative  to   the   प्लेन  of  इसके  orbit .
dvd-video  is a consumer video  स्वरूप  used to  स्टोर  digital video on DVD discs ,  और  is  फिलहाल  the dominant consumer  वीडियो  format in  एशिया  , North America , Europe , and Australia .
Discs  using   the  DVD-Video specification require  a  DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g. , a DVD player , or a  कंप्यूटर   dvd   ड्राइव  with a software DVD player )  .
वाणिज्यिक  DVD  फिल्मों   हैं  encoded  using  a  संयोजन  of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2  संपीडित  video and audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel  स्वरुप  as  वर्णित  below )  .
Typically  ,   the  data rate for DVD movies ranges  इससे  3 Mbit/s to  9.5  Mbit/s ,  और  the  बिट  rate is usually  अनुकूली  .
It  थी  first available for retail around  1997  .
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum  और  can be  प्राप्त  from  dvd  Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for  a  fee of  $  5,000  .
The specification is not publicly  उपलब्धियाँ  , because every subscriber  जरूर  sign a non-disclosure agreement .
Certain information in the  dvd  Book is proprietary and confidential .
in  computing and  specifically  Internet  ,   a  leech  is   एक  who benefits  ,  usually deliberately  ,   इससे  others '  सूचना   or  effort but does not offer anything in  वापसी  , or makes only token offerings  in   an  attempt to avoid being called a  जोंक   .
In  अर्थशास्त्र   ,  this type of behavior  is  called  ``  free riding '' and is  संबद्ध  with  the  free rider problem .
Depending on  कॉन्टेक्स्ट   ,   leeching  does not  necessarily   refer  to illegal  उपयोग  of computer  संसाधन  ,  लकिन  often instead to  लालची  use  according  to  तहज़ीब  : to wit ,  using  too  much  of what is  freely  given  बगैर  contributing a reasonable  राशि  back  to   the  community that provides  it  .
the  name derives  इससे   the   जोंक   ,  an animal that  झंझट  blood and  तब  tries to leave unnoticed .
अन्य   शर्तें   हैं  used , such as  ``   freeloader  ''  ,  but leech  is   the  most common .
The full eagle logo  ,  used in various versions from 1970  to  1993 .
The United States Postal  सेवा  ( USPS  )  ,  भी  known  as  the  पोस्ट  Office and  u.S.   मेल  , is an independent  एजेंसी  of  the  United States federal government responsible for providing postal service in the United States .
It is  एक  of the few government agencies explicitly  प्राधिकृत  by the United States Constitution .
The USPS traces its  जड़ें  to 1775 during the Second Continental Congress  ,  where  बेंजामिन   फ्रैंकलिन  was appointed the first  postmaster  general .
The cabinet-level Post Office Department was created in 1792 from  फ्रैंकलिन   's  operation  और  transformed into its current form  in  1971  अंतर्गत   the  Postal  reorganization  Act .
The  usps  employs  over  574,000  मजदूर  and operates over 260,000 vehicles .
The  usps   is   the   ऑपरेटर  of  the  largest vehicle  बेड़े  in the world .
The USPS is legally obligated to serve all Americans ,  regardless  of geography , at uniform price and quality .
The  usps   रै  exclusive access to  अक्षर   बाक्स  marked `` U.S. Mail  ''   और  personal letterboxes in the United States , but still  competes   विरूद्ध  private package delivery services  ,   ऐसे  as  यूपीएस  and  fedex  .
The USPS has not directly received taxpayer-dollars since the  जल्दी   1980s   साथ  the minor exception of subsidies  लिये  costs associated with  the   निष्क्रिय  and overseas voters  .
Since  the  2006 all-time peak mail  आवाज़   ,   बाद  which  कॉंग्रेस  passed  the  Postal Accountability  और  Enhancement Act `` , ( which mandated $ 5.5  अरब   प्रति  year to be  सशुल्क   into  an account to pre-fund retiree health-care  ,  75  सालो   into  the future , a requirement unique among  संगठन  and businesses in the U.S. )  ,  revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume  ,   prompting  the postal  सेवा   to  look to  अन्य   स्त्रोत  of revenue  जबकि   कटिंग  costs  to  reduce its budget deficit  .
वॉशिंगटन  , D.C.  रै  been  the  capital of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  since  1800  .
आठ  other cities have served  as   the  meeting place for Congress and  हैं  therefore considered to  have   एकबार  been the capital of  the   संयुक्त  States .
In addition  ,   प्रत्येक  of  the  50 U.S. states  और  the five principal territories  of   the  United States maintains its  अपना  capital .
Princess cut diamond set  in  a  रिंग
The Princess  काटें   is  the second most popular cut shape for  ईंट  ,  अगला   to  a round brilliant .
The face-up  आकार  of  the  princess  काटें  is square  or  rectangular  और   the   प्रोफ़ाइल  or side-on  आकार   is  similar to that of an inverted pyramid  साथ  four beveled  पहलू   .
The princess cut is a  अपेक्षाकृत   नई  diamond cut , having  महरूम   निर्मित  in  the  1960s .
it  has gained in popularity in recent years as  a   अधिक  distinctive alternative to  the  more  लोकप्रिय   गोलाकार   शानदार  cut , in which the top of  डायमंड  , called  the   क्राउन  ,  is  cut  साथ  a round face-up shape  और  the bottom ,  पुकारा  the pavilion , is  तराशा   समान  to a  कोन  .
a  princess cut with  the  same width as  the   व्यास   of   a  round  शानदार  will  तौल   अधिक  as it  रै  four corners which would otherwise  have  been cut off and rounded to form a round brilliant .
The princess  काटें  is sometimes  referred  to  as  a square  परिवर्धित  brilliant  .
However , while displaying  the   वही  high degree of  brilliance  , its faceting style  is  unique and completely different  इससे   कि  of a round  शानदार  .
the  Princess cut had  इसके   origins   in  the early `` French '' cut  ,  having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or  ``   क्रॉस   ''  cut crown and a series of  अद्वितीय  , chevron-shaped facets  in  the pavilion which combine to give  a  distinct  cross-shaped   प्रतिबिंब  when the stone is  viewed  directly  through  the table .
effectively  , the Princess cut  combines  the high degree of  लाइट  return of a round  शानदार  cut  साथ  a distinctive square or  आयताकार  shape .
The square  राजकुमारी  cut diamond  is   प्रायः   थोड़ा  cheaper than round  शानदार  cut diamonds of the same carat weight  क्युकी   it  retains about 80 %  of  the rough diamond , as opposed  to  the round brilliant which retains  तभी   परिचय  50  %  of  the  rough .
The  क्षमता   to  retain more crystal  वज़न   makes  this shape popular amongst  डायमंड  cutters  .
Accredited Gem Appraisers (  आगा  )  और  American Gem Society Laboratory (  agsl   )   और  European Gem Laboratories-USA  (   egl-usa  ) are currently  the   तभी   लैब्स  that grade the Princess  काटें  for cut  .
There  is  no universal definition of  कया  measurements  मेक  an ideal princess cut diamond and  अनेक   डायमंड   निर्माताओं  market ideal diamonds with  differing  facet patterns and angles as `` ideal cut ''  .
in  contrast to the AGSL , AGA , and  egl-usa  the Gemological Institute  of  America ( GIA  )  has  stated  that there is not enough industry consensus  or  empirical data to specify  काटें  grading  मानकों  for  राजकुमारी  cut  ईंट   और  to do  so  is at the  रिस्क   of   उपभोक्ता  who  may  be deceived by diamonds accompanied  by  unqualified Ideal  or  Excellent cut grades .
The  नाम  ``  राजकुमारी  Cut '' was originally used in connection  साथ  another diamond  काटें  , otherwise known as the  ``   प्रोफ़ाइल  '' cut  ,  designed by Arpad  nagy   ,  a London  कटर  ,  in  1961 .
the   वही  name  थी  later  प्रयुक्त  and made popular  by  Ygal Perlman ,  betzalel   ambar   ,  and Israel Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979  .
A similar cut with only 49 facets ,  as  opposed  to  the original  58  facets  of   the  princess  काटें  ,  थी  later branded the ``  quadrillion  '' and initially distributed  by  Ambar Diamonds in Los  एंजिल्स  .
Three years of optical research yielded a square stone with faceting similar to that of a round brilliant  काटें  diamond  .
a  Comparison
The number of  chevrons  can affect the overall outlook  of   a   राजकुमारी  cut  डायमंड  .
This can usually be determined by  the  wire diagram that  is  plotted in diamond grading reports .
By  adding  more chevrons on the  मण्डप  side of the diamond  ,   the  individual facets of the diamond will now be broken down into smaller facets .
As  a  result  ,  it  can  give  a  princess cut  डायमंड  a `` crushed  बर्फ   ''   dekh  .
वाइस  versa  ,   जब   a  princess  काटें  diamond has  lesser  chevrons  ,  it tends to  दे  the diamond  a  chunky outlook due to broader facets  .
The domestic  श्वान  ( Canis  lupus  familiaris ) is  a  subspecies  of  the gray wolf ( Canis  lupus   )  , a member  of  the  कैनिडाए  family  of  the  mammalian  order Carnivora .
The term `` domestic dog '' is generally used  लिये  both  domesticated  and feral varieties .
The dog has been the  पहला   एनिमल  to  be  domesticated and has been  the  most widely  रखा   working  ,  शिकार  , and pet animal in  इंसान   इतिहास  .
The word `` dog '' may also mean  the  male  of  a canine species , as opposed to  the  word `` bitch  ''   लिये  the female of the species .
MtDNA  प्रमाण  shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and  the   आधुनिक  wolf 's  lineage  around 100,000  सालो  ago  लकिन  , , the oldest  चट्टान  specimens genetically linked  to  the modern dog  's  lineage  तिथि   to  approximately  33,000-36,000  years  पहले  .
Dogs ' value to early human hunter-gatherers led to them quickly becoming ubiquitous  आरपार  world cultures  .
Dogs  perform  many roles for people , such as hunting ,  herding  , pulling loads  ,  protection ,  assisting  police and military  ,   companionship  ,  और  ,  अधिक   recently   ,  aiding handicapped individuals  .
इस  impact  on   इंसान  society has given them the nickname `` Man 's Best Friend ''  in   the   पश्चिमी   संसार  .
In some cultures  ,  dogs  हैं  also a source  of  meat .
In 2001 , there were estimated to  be   400  million dogs in the world .
Most  breeds  of dogs are at most a few hundred years old , having been artificially  चयनित  for particular  morphologies  and  व्यवहार  by  लोगों  for specific  कार्यात्मक   भूमिकाएँ  .
through  this  चयनात्मक  breeding , the dog has  विकसित  into  सैंकड़ों   of  varied breeds , and  shows  more behavioral  और  morphological  विभिन्नता  than  कोई   अन्य   जमीन   स्तनधारी  .
For example  ,  height measured  to  the  withers  ranges from in the Chihuahua to about  in  the  आयरिश  Wolfhound  ;   रंग   varies   इससे   श्वेत  through  grays  ( usually called `` blue  ''  )  to  black  ,  and  भूरा  from light ( tan  )   to   अंधेरा  ( `` red  ''  or `` chocolate  ''   )  in a wide variation of  पैटर्न   ;  coats can be short or long , coarse-haired to wool-like  ,   सीधा  , curly , or smooth .
it  is  आम   लिये   सबसे  breeds to shed  इस   कोट   .
आरेख  of a  हस्तांतरण  electron microscope
A 1973 Siemens  इलेक्ट्रॉन  microscope ,  musée  des Arts et  métiers   ,  Paris
An electron microscope (  em  ) is a type  of  microscope that uses an electron  बीम  to illuminate a  नमूना   और   उपज   a  magnified image  .
An EM has  वृहद  resolving  शक्ति  than a light microscope and  can   खुलासा   the   ढांचा   of  smaller objects  क्युकी   electrons  have wavelengths about  100,000  times  shorter  than visible  लाइट  photons .
They can achieve better than 50 pm resolution and magnifications of up  to  about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary  ,  non-confocal  लाइट  microscopes are limited by diffraction to about 200  nm  resolution and  उपयोगी  magnifications below 2000x .
The electron microscope uses electrostatic and electromagnetic  lenses  to control the electron beam  और   फ़ोकस  it  to   रूप   an  image .
ये  electron optical  lenses  are analogous  to  the glass  lenses  of  a  light optical microscope  .
Electron microscopes  हैं  used to investigate the  ultrastructure   of  a wide range of biological  और  inorganic  नमूनों  including microorganisms , cells , large molecules , biopsy  नमूने  , metals , and  crystals  .
Industrially ,  the  electron microscope is often used for quality control and  विफलता  analysis  .
आधुनिक  electron microscopes produce electron micrographs , using specialized  डिजिटल  cameras or  फ़्रेम  grabbers  to  capture the image .
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is  a  chain of  fried   मुर्गा  fast food restaurants founded in 1972 in New  ऑरलियन्स   ,  Louisiana .
Often referred  to  as Popeyes and  sometimes  as Popeyes Chicken & Biscuits or Popeyes Chicken & Seafood , It was acquired  by  Sandy Springs , Georgia  -आधारd   afc  Enterprises ,  originally   अमेरिका  's Favorite  मुर्गा  Company  ,  in 1993 .
According to a company press release dated  जून   29  , 2007 ,  popeyes  is  the  second-largest  ``   quick-service  chicken  रेस्तरां   समूह  ,  measured  by  क्रमांक  of  इकाई  ''  ,  with more than  1,800   रेस्तरां  in more  than  40 states and the District of Columbia , and over 22 countries  विश्वव्यापी  including Turkey  ,   उत्तरी   साइप्रस  ,  बहरीन  , China , Hong  काँग  ,  इराकी  , Indonesia ,  जॉर्डन  ,  कुवैत   ,  United  अरब   अमीरात  , Japan ,  मलेशिया  ,  सऊदी  Arabia ,  दक्षिण   कोरियाई  , Singapore , Canada  ,  Jamaica , Guyana ,  सूरीनाम  ,  मैक्सिको  , Trinidad , Puerto Rico , Honduras , Vietnam , Panama , Peru , and Costa  रिका   .
परिचय   तीस  locations are  company-owned  , the rest franchised  .
The leg press  is  a weight  प्रशिक्षण   कसरत  in  जिससे  the individual pushes a weight or resistance  दूर  from them using their legs .
The term  लेग   दबायें  also  refers   to  the apparatus used to perform this  कसरत  .
the  leg  दबायें  can be  प्रयुक्त   to   evaluate   an  athlete 's overall lower  देह   शक्ति  ( from knee  संयुक्त  to hip ) .
Using the diagonal sled-type leg  दबायें   यंत्र  .
वहीँ  are two  प्रमुख  types of  लेग  press:
The diagonal or  लंबवत   'sled  ' type  लेग  press .
वज़न  disks ( plates  )  are attached directly to the sled ,  जिससे   is   आरोहित  on rails  .
The  उपयोक्ता   sits   नीचे  the sled and pushes it upward with their  फीट   .
ये  machines normally  शामिल  adjustable safety brackets that prevent  the  user  इससे  being trapped under  the  weight  .
the  'cable ' type  लेग  press , or  'seated  leg press  '  , commonly found on multigyms .
The  उपयोक्ता  sits upright and  pushes   आगे  with  उनके   फीट   onto  a  थाली   कि  is attached  to   the   वज़न   स्टेक  by means  of  a long steel cable .
Wendy Williams  शिकारी   (  born  वेन्डी   जोन  Williams  ;  July  18  , 1964 ) is an American  मीडिया  personality  ,   अभिनेत्री  and author .
She hosts a  syndicated  television talk show , The Wendy Williams Show .
Prior to television  ,  Williams was a  ``  shock jockette `` on  अनेक   रेडियो  shows .
Williams has gained notoriety  लिये   उसके  on-air spats with celebrities .
She was the  विषय  of  the  2006  vh1  reality TV series  पुकारा  The Wendy Williams Experience which broadcast  कार्यक्रम  surrounding  उसके   रेडियो  show .
वो  has written an  आत्मकथा   और   अनेक   अन्य  books  ,   और   रै  created  a  product  लकीर   पुकारा  Adorn by Wendy Williams .
पैट्रिक  Henry `` Treason '' speech before the House  of   burgesses  in an 1851 painting by Peter F.  rothermel
`` Give me  स्वतंत्रता  , or give me death  !  '' is a quotation attributed  to  Patrick Henry from a speech  he   बना  to the Virginia  सम्मेलन  .
On that  दिन  , at St. John  's  Church in Richmond  ,   वर्जिनिया   ,   और  is credited  साथ   having   swung  the balance in convincing the Virginia  हाउस   of  Burgesses to pass a  रेज़ोल्यूशन  delivering the Virginia troops to  the   क्रांतिकारी   युद्ध  .
Among the delegates to the convention were  भविष्य  US  राष्ट्रपतियों  Thomas Jefferson  और  George Washington  .
Newfoundland and  labrador   (  , locally )  is   the  easternmost province of Canada .
Situated in  the   देश  's  अटलांटिक  region ,  it  incorporates  the   द्वीप   of  Newfoundland and mainland Labrador to  the  northwest , with a combined  क्षेत्रफल   of  .
In 2011 , the  प्रांत  's population was 514,536 .
लगभग   92  percent of the  प्रांत   's  population lives on the  द्वीप  of Newfoundland  (  including  इसके  associated smaller islands  )  , of which more than half live  on  the  avalon  Peninsula .
The province is Canada 's most linguistically  homogenous  , with 97.6  %  of  निवासियों  reporting  अंग्रेज़ी  ( Newfoundland English  )  as  उनके  mother tongue in the 2006 census ; .
historically  , Newfoundland was also home to unique  किस्में   of   फ्रेंच  , and Irish  ,  as well as the  now-extinct  Beothuk language  .
In  labrador  , local  dialects  of Innu-aimun and Inuktitut are also spoken .
Newfoundland  और   labrador  's  पूंजी  and largest city  ,   st.  John 's ,  is  Canada  's  20th-largest Census Metropolitan Area , and is home to almost  40  percent of the province  's  population .
St. John 's is the seat  of   सरकारी  , home  to   the   हाउस  of Assembly of Newfoundland  और   labrador   और   the  highest court in the jurisdiction , the Newfoundland  और  Labrador Court of Appeal .
A former colony and dominion of the United  किंगडम  ,  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  and Labrador  became  the  दसवाँ  province to  डालें   the  Canadian  कनफेडरेशन  on March 31 , 1949 ,  as  Newfoundland  .
On December 6 , 2001 , an amendment was made to the  संविधान  of Canada to change  the  province  's  official  नाम  to Newfoundland and  labrador  .
In day-to-day conversation , however , Canadians generally still refer to the  प्रांत   itself  as Newfoundland and to the region  on   the  Canadian  मेनलैंड  as  labrador  .
Theodore `` T.R . ''
Roosevelt  ,  Jr. ( ; October  27  ,  1858—january  6 ,  1919  ) was the 26th President of  the  United States  (   1901–1909  )  .
he  is noted for his exuberant personality , range  of  interests and achievements , and his leadership of  the  Progressive Movement , as  खूब  as  उसके  ``  काउंटी  `` persona and robust masculinity  .
He  थी   a  leader  of  the Republican  पार्टी   और  founder of  the   पहला  incarnation of the  short-lived  Progressive (  ``  Bull  मूस  '' )  पार्टी   of  1912 .
पहले  becoming President , he  आयोजित  offices at  the   नगर  , state , and federal levels  .
रूज़वेल्ट  's achievements  as  a naturalist , explorer , hunter , author ,  और   सिपाही  are as much a part of  उसके  fame  as  any office he  आयोजित  as a politician .
Roosevelt was 42 years  बूढ़ा   जब  sworn  in  as President  of  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   in  1901 , making  उसे   the  youngest president  कभी  ; he beat out  the  youngest elected president , John F. Kennedy ,  by  only one year .
Roosevelt  थी  also the  पहला  of  तभी   तीन  sitting presidents to  have  won  the  Nobel Peace Prize .
The Teddy  भालू  is  नामित  after him  ,   despite   उसके  contempt for being called  ``  Teddy ''  .
born  into a wealthy family in New  यॉर्क  City , Roosevelt  थी  a sickly  चाइल्ड   जो   suffered  from asthma and stayed at  घर  studying natural history  .
to  overcome his physical weakness , he  embraced  a  ज़ोरदार  life .
home-schooled  ,  he   became  an eager student  of  nature .
He attended Harvard  विश्वविद्यालयों   ,  where he  पढ़ाई   जीवविज्ञान  ,  boxed  and developed  an   ब्याज  in naval affairs .
In  1881  ,  एक  year out  of   हार्वर्ड  , he was  निर्वाचित  to the New York State  सभा  , where  he  became a  नेता  of  the  reform faction of his  रिपब्लिकन  Party (  the   ``  GOP  ''  )  .
उसके  The Naval War  of  1812 (  1882  ) established  उसके  professional  प्रतिष्ठा  as  a  serious historian  ;  he wrote numerous books on hunting , the outdoors  ,  and current political issues ,  as   खूब   as  frontier history  .
In 1884  ,  his first wife and  उसके  mother died on  the  same day  .
He temporarily left  राजनीती  and went to the frontier , becoming  a   rancher  in  the   ``  Badlands '' in the  dakotas  .
Returning to New  यॉर्क  City  ,  he ran for mayor in 1886  ,   finishing   तीसरा  with  60,000  votes .
He  बाद  gained  कीर्ति  by taking  vigorous  charge  of  the city police .
At  the  national  स्तर  , he was a leader in civil  सेवा   सुधार   .
the   spanish–american  War broke out in 1898 while  रूज़वेल्ट  was , effectively ,  कार्यशील   the   विभाग   of  the Navy  .
He promptly  resigned  and formed the  अशिष्ट  Riders – a volunteer cavalry  रेजीमेंट  that  लड़ा   in  Cuba .
The war hero was elected governor in  1898  and in 1900  थी  nominated for vice president .
He successfully  सक्रिय   the   gop  base as a  अत्यधिक   दृश्य   प्रचारक   to   reelect  President William McKinley on  a  platform of  ऊँची  tariffs  ,  the  सुनहरा   मानक   ,   साम्राज्यवाद  , prosperity at home  और  victory abroad  .
In 1901  ,   अध्यक्ष  William McKinley was  assassinated  and Roosevelt  became  President .
He attempted  to   मूव  the  रिपब्लिकन  Party ( GOP ) toward Progressivism , including trust  busting  and  increased  regulation of  व्यवसायों  .
रूज़वेल्ट   became  the  पहला  person elected to a term in his own right in  1904  after having ascended  to  the  प्रेसिडेंसी  ( from  the   vice-presidency  ) upon  the  death of his predecessor , winning the  largest   प्रतिशत  of the popular vote  चूंकि  the uncontested election  of  1820 .
Roosevelt  coined  the  phrase  `` Square Deal  ``  to describe his domestic agenda  ,  emphasizing that the average citizen  होता  get  a  fair share  अंतर्गत  his policies .
As an outdoorsman and naturalist , he promoted the conservation  गति  .
On  the  world stage ,  रूज़वेल्ट   's  policies were characterized by his  स्लोगन   ,   ``  Speak softly and  carry  a  बिग  stick `` .
A cousin  is   a  relative with  जिसको   a   व्यक्ति  shares one or more common ancestor ( s )  (  other than a parent  ,  child/descendant  ,  sibling  ,   child/descendant  of a  सहोदर  , or  सहोदर   of  a parent/ancestor ) .
However in common  parlance   ,  `` cousin ''  सामान्यतः  specifically means  ``  first cousin '' .
प्रणालियों  of ``  डिग्री   ''  and ``  removals  '' are used in  the  English-speaking world  to  describe the exact relationship between  दो   cousins  ( in  the   व्यापक  sense  )   और  the ancestor they have  in  common .
विभिन्न  governmental  entities  have established  प्रणालियों   लिये  legal  उपयोग   कि  can more  precisely   बताएँ  kinships with  आम  ancestors existing any number  of   पीढियां   in  the  पास्ट  , though common usage often  eliminates  the  डिग्री  and removals and refers  to  people  साथ  common  ancestry  as simply `` distant cousins '' or  ``   रिश्तेदारों  '' .
वेबस्टर  is an American situation comedy that aired on ABC  इससे  September  16  , 1983 until May 8 ,  1987  ,  और  in first-run syndication from  सितंबर  21 , 1987 until March  10   ,  1989 .
The series was  निर्मित  by  stu   चांदी  .
the   दिखाएँ  stars Emmanuel  लुईस   in   the  title  भूमिका  as a  यंग   लड़के   जो  , after  खोने   उसके   अभिभावक  , is adopted by  उसके  NFL -pro  गॉडफादर   ,  portrayed  by  Alex  karras  , and his new socialite  बीवी  , played  by   सुसान   क्लार्क  .
The focus was largely  on   कैसा  this impulsively  शादीशुदा  couple had  to  adjust to their  नई  lives and sudden  parenthood  , but it was  the   अनुकूल  Webster himself  जो  drove  much   of  the plot .
the  series was produced by  जॉर्जियाई  Bay Ltd. , Emmanuel Lewis  entertainment  Enterprises , Inc. (  1986-1989   )  and  सर्वोपरि  Television  .
जैसे  NBC 's  पहले  hit  diff'rent  Strokes ,  वेबस्टर  featured a  यंग  African-American  लड़के  adopted by a  श्वेत  family .
Three types of cell division
Cell  प्रभाग   is   the  process by  जिससे  a parent  कोशिका   divides   into   दो   or  more daughter cells  .
कोशिका   प्रभाग   प्रायः   occurs  as part of a larger cell  साईकिल   .
In  eukaryotes  , there are  दो  distinct  प्रकार   of   कोशिका   प्रभाग   :  a vegetative division  ,   whereby  each daughter cell  is  genetically identical to the  जनक  cell  (  mitosis ) ,  और  a  reductive  cell division  ,   whereby   the  number of chromosomes in  the  daughter cells is  घटाया  by half , to produce haploid gametes (  meiosis  ) .
दोनो   of  these  कोशिका   प्रभाग  cycles are required in sexually reproducing organisms at some  पाइंट  in their life  साईकिल  ,  और  both are believed to be  उपस्थित  in the last eukaryotic common ancestor  prokaryotes  also undergo a vegetative cell division known as  शब्दकोष   परिवर्द्धन  , where  उनके  genetic  सामग्री  is segregated equally into  दो  daughter  कोशिकाएं  .
सब  cell divisions ,  regardless  of  सजीव  , are  preceded   by  a single round of  डीएनए   replication  .
लिये  simple unicellular organisms such as  the   amoeba   ,  one cell division  is  equivalent to reproduction – an entire new organism is  निर्मित  .
On  a  larger scale  ,  mitotic cell  प्रभाग  can create  progeny   इससे  multicellular  जीवों  , such as plants that grow from cuttings .
Cell  प्रभाग  also enables  sexually  reproducing organisms to  develop  from the one-celled zygote , which itself was produced  by   कोशिका   प्रभाग  from gametes .
And after growth ,  कोशिका  division allows for continual construction  और   मरम्मत  of  the   सजीव  .
a   इंसान  being  's  body experiences about  10,000  trillion  कोशिका  divisions in a lifetime .
Cell  प्रभाग  has been  modeled  by finite  subdivision   नियम  .
The primary concern of cell division is  the  maintenance of  the  original cell 's genome .
Before  प्रभाग  can occur  ,  the  genomic  information that  is  stored in chromosomes must be  replicated   ,   और  the duplicated genome must be separated cleanly between cells .
A great deal of cellular  अवसंरचना   is   शामिल  in keeping genomic information  सतत  between `` generations '' .
Mountain ranges  of  Massachusetts , United States  .
Howard Jones ( born John Howard Jones , 23 February 1955 , Southampton  ,  Hampshire , England )  is  a British musician  ,   सिंगर   और  songwriter  .
According  to   the  Guinness Book of British Hit  singles  &  एल्बम  , ``  जोन्स  is an accomplished singer-songwriter who  थी  a  नियमित  chart visitor in the  mid-1980s  with his brand of  synthpop   .
Jones , who was equally popular in the  u.S.  , appeared  at  Live  सहायता  `` .
allmusic  journalist ,  स्टीफन  Thomas Erlewine adds ,  ``  Jones was one  of  the defining figures of mid-1980s synthpop  .
His  म्यूज़िक  merged the technology intensive  ध्वनि  of New Wave  साथ   the  cheery  आशावाद  of hippies and  लेट  1960s pop  .
Jones racked  up   a  string of hits in the  मिड  and  लेट  1980s , before  he  retreated into being a cult figure  in  the  1990s   ''  .
The International Isle of Man TT (  पर्यटक  Trophy  )  Race is  a   मोटरसाइकिल   रेसिंग  event held on  the   आइल  of  man   और  was for  अनेक   सालो  the  सबसे  prestigious  मोटरसाइकिल   रेस  in  the  world .
the  event  थी  part of  the  FIM Motorcycle Grand  प्रिक्स   संसार  Championship during the period  1949–1976   पहले  being transferred to  the  United Kingdom after  सुरक्षा  concerns and run by the  fim  as  the  British Grand Prix for the  1977  season .
the  Isle  of   man  TT Races became  भाग  of the TT  सूत्र   1  Championship  इससे   1977  to  1990  to  बचाना  the event  's   रेसिंग   औकात   .
From  1989   the  racing  रै  been  विकसित   by  the Isle of Man Department of Tourism as the Isle of  man  TT Festival .
the   रेस  is run in a time-trial format on public  सड़कें   बंद  for racing  by  the provisions of an Act of Tynwald  (  the parliament of the Isle  of  Man  )   .
The first race was  आयोजित  on Tuesday 28 May 1907 and  थी  called the International Auto-Cycle Tourist Trophy  .
The event was  संगठित  by the Auto-Cycle Club over 10 laps  of  the St John  's   छोटी  Course of 15 miles 1,470 yards  लिये   road-legal   touring  motorcycles with exhaust  silencers  , saddles , pedals and mud-guards  .
The  विजेता  of  the  single-cylinder  क्लास   ,  and overall winner of  the   पहला  event  in  1907 ,  थी  Charlie Collier riding a Matchless motorcycle  in  a  समय   of  4  घंटों  , 8  मिनट्स  and 8 seconds at an average race speed  of  38.21  किमी   .
The  विजेता  of  the   twin-cylinder   क्लास   थी   rem  Fowler  सवारी   a   peugeot   एंजिन   नॉर्टन  in a time of 4 hours 21 minutes and  52   सेकेंड  at an  औसत   रेस  speed of  36.21   किमी  .
The trophy  प्रस्तुत  to Charlie Collier as the winner  of   the  1907 Isle of Man  tt  Race , was donated by the Marquis de  mouzilly   st.  Mars .
It featured  a  stylised version of  ओलम्पिक  God Hermes  by  Giovanni  da  Bologna as a silver  figurine  astride a  winged  wheel  .
the  trophy  थी   समान  in design to the  18  carat gold  montague  Trophy presented to John Napier  (  Arrol-Johnston )  as   the   inaugural  winner  of  the Isle of  man  Tourist Trophy  car  race  in   1905  now known as the  rac   पर्यटक  Trophy .
the   बिल्ले  de  mouzilly  St.  मंगल  Trophy is now presented annually to  the  winner  of   the  Isle of  man  Senior TT  motor-cycle  Race .
The 2007  आइल  of Man TT was  the  Centenary event which ran between 26 May and  8  June 2007 and  प्रदर्शित   a  special  re-enactment  of the 1907 Isle of Man TT Race held on the  गाँव  green next to Tynwald Hill  in  St John 's  on  Monday 28 May  2007   .
the  vintage parade of 100 classic motorcycles for the Centenary Re-enactment on  the   असली  St John 's Short Course was flagged away by  पूर्व  World  motor-cycle  Champion Geoff  ड्यूक  .
The first of the participants to be  flagged  away  थी  the recently restored twin-cylinder  peugeot-norton  ridden by  rem  Fowler during the  पहला  Isle  of  Man TT Race  in  1907 .
Also participating in the  2007  Re-enactment was TT race competitor Guy  मार्टिन  riding a  1938  Triumph  बाघ  100 500  cc  and  अन्य  former TT competitors including Alan  cathcart  , Sammy Miller , Nick Jefferies and Mick Grant also completed the  re-enactment  lap .
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or  joblessness  ) occurs when  लोगों  are without  कार्य   और   actively  seeking work .
The unemployment rate is a measure of the prevalence of unemployment  और  it is calculated  as  a percentage  by   dividing  the number of unemployed  individuals  by all individuals  फिलहाल  in the labor force .
During periods of recession  ,   an   अर्थव्यवस्था  usually experiences  a  relatively high unemployment rate .
According to  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Labour Organization report , more than  197  million people globally  हैं  out of  कार्य   or   6   %  of the world  's   workforce  were without  a  job in 2012  .
There  remains  considerable  सैद्धांतिक  debate  regarding  the  कल्याणकारी  ,  consequences   और  solutions  लिये   बेरोजगारी   .
Classical economics , New classical economics , and the Austrian  स्कूल  of  अर्थशास्त्र   argue   कि   मार्केट  mechanisms are reliable  अर्थात्   of   resolving  unemployment .
These theories argue  विरूद्ध  interventions imposed  on  the  मजदूर  market from the  बाहर   ,   ऐसे  as unionization , minimum  मजदूरी  laws , taxes ,  और  other regulations  कि  they claim discourage the hiring of workers .
Keynesian economics emphasizes  the   cyclical  nature of unemployment  और   अनुशंसा   सरकारी  interventions  in   the  economy that it claims will  reduce   बेरोजगारी   दौरान   recessions  .
This  सिद्धान्त  focuses on recurrent  झटके   कि  suddenly reduce aggregate demand for goods and services  और  thus reduce demand  लिये   मजदूर  .
keynesian  models recommend government  interventions  designed to  बढ़ाएँ  demand for  मजदूर  ;  ये  can include financial stimuli ,  सरेआम  funded job creation  ,   और  expansionist  मौद्रिक  policies .
In addition  to   ये   व्यापक  theories of  बेरोजगारी  ,  वहीँ  are  a   few  categorizations  of   बेरोजगारी   कि  are  प्रयुक्त   to  more precisely model  the   प्रभाव   of   बेरोजगारी   भीतर  the economic  प्रणाली  .
the   प्रमुख   प्रकार   of  unemployment include  संरचनात्मक   बेरोजगारी   जिससे  focuses  on   संरचनात्मक  problems in  the   अर्थव्यवस्था  and inefficiencies inherent in labour markets ,  सहित  a  बेमेल  between the supply and demand  of  laborers with necessary skill  सेट  .
Structural arguments emphasize  कल्याणकारी  and solutions  सम्बन्धित  to disruptive technologies and globalization .
Discussions of frictional  बेरोजगारी  focus on voluntary decisions to  कार्य  based  on  each individuals '  valuation   of   उनके   अपना   कार्य   और  how that compares to current wage rates plus the time  और  effort required to  ढूँढें  a job .
Causes and solutions for frictional unemployment often address  जॉब   प्रविष्टि  threshold and wage  दरों  .
Behavioral  अर्थशास्त्रियों   हाइलाइट  individual  biases  in  निर्णय  making  ,  and  प्रायः  involve problems  और   समाधान  concerning  स्टिकी   मजदूरी   और  efficiency wages .
Collectivism is any  philosophic   ,  political  ,  religious ,  आर्थिक  , or social outlook  कि  emphasizes the interdependence of  प्रत्येक   इंसान   होने  in  a  society  or  civilization .
Collectivism  is  a  मौलिक  cultural element that exists as the  रिवर्स  of  व्यक्तिगत  in human  प्रकृति  ( in the same  रास्ता   ऊँची  context culture exists  as  the reverse  of   कम  context  संस्कृति  ) .
Collectivist  orientations  stress the importance of cohesion within social groups  (  such as an  ``  in-group ''  ,   in  what  विशिष्ट   कॉन्टेक्स्ट  it is  पारिभाषित  ) and in some cases ,  the  priority  of  group  लक्ष्य  over individual  लक्ष्य  .
Collectivists often focus on community  ,   समाज  , nation  or  country .
It has been  प्रयुक्त   as  an  तत्व   in  many different and diverse types  of   सरकारी  and political ,  आर्थिक  and  शैक्षणिक  philosophies throughout history and  सबसे  human societies in  अभ्यास  contain elements of both individualism and  collectivism   .
Some  उदाहरण  of collectivist  संस्कृतियों  include India and Japan  .
Collectivism can be divided into horizontal collectivism and  लंबवत  collectivism .
आड़ा  collectivism stresses collective decision-making  among  equal individuals  ,   और  is thus usually  आधारित  on decentralization and  समतावाद  .
Vertical collectivism is based on hierarchical structures of  शक्ति  and  on   moral  and cultural conformity ,  और  is therefore  आधारित  on centralization  और  hierarchy  .
A cooperative enterprise  होता   be  an  उदाहरण  of horizontal  collectivism  , whereas a  सैन्य  hierarchy would  be  an example of vertical collectivism .
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( ADEM )  is  an immune mediated disease of  the   दिमाग  .
It usually occurs following  a  viral infection but may appear following vaccination , bacterial or  parasitic  infection ,  or   भी   appear   अनायास   .
as  it involves autoimmune demyelination , it is similar  to  multiple sclerosis  ,  and  is  considered  भाग  of the  अनेक  sclerosis borderline diseases .
the  incidence rate  is  about  8  per  1,000,000  people  प्रति   साल  .
Although it occurs  in  all ages , most reported cases are in children and adolescents , with the average age  around   5   to  8 years  बूढ़ा  .
The  मृत्यु   रेट  may  be  as  ऊँची  as 5  %  ,  पूरा  recovery is seen in 50  to  75 % of  मामले   ,  while up to 70 to 90 % recover with some  नाबालिग  residual disability  .
The  औसत   समय   to  recover  is  one  to  six months  .
ADEM  produces   अनेक   जलन  lesions  in  the  दिमाग   और  spinal cord , particularly in the white matter  .
Usually these are found in the  subcortical  and central white matter and cortical gray-white junction of both cerebral hemispheres ,  cerebellum  , brainstem , and spinal cord ,  लकिन  periventricular white matter and gray matter of  the  cortex  ,   thalami  and basal ganglia may also be  शामिल  .
When the patient suffers more than one demyelinating  एपीसोड  , it is called  तूल  disseminated  encephalomyelitis   or   multiphasic   disseminated   encephalomyelitis   (  MDEM ) .
The stomach  is  a  muscular  , hollow  ,  dilated part of the digestion  प्रणाली  which functions as an important organ of  the  digestive tract in  कुछ   पशु   ,   सहित  vertebrates ,  echinoderms  ,  कीट   (   mid-gut  )  ,   और  molluscs .
it   is  involved  in  the second phase of digestion , following mastication (  चबाने  ) .
The stomach  is   स्तिथ   between  the esophagus and  the   छोटी  intestine .
It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called  protease  and strong  acids   to  aid  in  food digestion , ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through smooth  muscular   contortions  (  पुकारा   segmentation  ) before  sending  partially digested  खाना  ( chyme ) to the small intestines .
the  word stomach is derived from  the  Latin  stomachus  which is derived from  the   यूनानी  word stomachos ( στόμαχος  )  ,  ultimately  from stoma ( ) , ``  मुँह   ''   .
the  words gastro- and gastric  (  meaning related to  the  stomach  )  are both derived from the  यूनानी  word gaster  (  ) .
1940 Pontiac  खास  Series 25  woodie
A woodie  is  a  car   देह  style ,  विशेषकर  a  स्टेशन   वैगन  ,  जहाँ  the rear  bodywork   is   constructed   of   लकडी  framework with  infill  panels  of  wood  or  painted  मेटल  .
बाद  the demise of actual wood construction , manufacturers used simulated woodgrain  चादर  vinyl—sometimes augmented with three-dimensional , simulated framework—to recall wood  निर्माण  .
In 2008 , wood construction  थी  evoked abstractly on the Ford  फ्लेक्स  with a  श्रेणी  of  पक्ष   और  rear  आड़ा  grooves .
A pearl is a hard  ऑब्जेक्ट   उत्पादित  within the  नरम  tissue ( specifically the mantle  )   of  a living shelled  mollusc   .
बस  like the shell of a clam , a  पर्ल  is  बना  up of calcium carbonate in  मिनट  crystalline form  ,  which  रै  been deposited in  केंद्रिय  layers .
the  ideal pearl is perfectly round and smooth  ,  but  अनेक   अन्य   आकार   of  pearls ( baroque pearls )  occur  .
the  finest quality  प्राकृतिक  pearls have been highly valued as gemstones and objects  of  beauty for many  सदियां   ,   और  because  of  this , the word  पर्ल  has become  a  metaphor for something  बहुत  rare  ,  fine , admirable  ,  and  मूल्यवान   .
The most valuable  मोती   occur   अनायास  in the wild , but they are extremely rare .
These wild  मोती  are referred  to  as natural  मोती  .
संस्कारी   or  farmed pearls  इससे  pearl  oysters  and freshwater  mussels  make  up  the  बहुमत  of  those  that are currently  बेची  .
Imitation  मोती   हैं  also widely sold  in  inexpensive  आभूषण  ,  लकिन  the  विशेषता  of  उनके   iridescence  is usually very poor , and often  ,   कृत्रिम  pearls  हैं  easily distinguished  इससे   वास्तविक   मोती  .
मोती  have been  harvested  and  cultivated  primarily for use in jewelry  ,   लकिन  in  the   पास्ट   वे  were also stitched onto lavish clothing  .
Pearls  have  also been crushed and  प्रयुक्त   in  cosmetics , medicines , and in paint formulations .
Whether wild  or   संस्कारी   ,  gem quality  मोती   हैं  almost always nacreous  और   ,  as is the interior of the  शेल  that produces them  .
However , almost all species of  shelled  molluscs are  सक्षम   of  producing pearls ( formally  referred  to as `` calcareous  concretions  '' by  कुछ  sources ) of lesser shine or less spherical  आकार  .
Although these may also  be  legitimately  referred  to  as  `` pearls  ''  by gemological labs and also under U.S.  संघीय  Trade Commission rules  ,  and are formed in the same  रास्ता  , most of them have no  मान  ,  मगर  as curiosities .
Bing  (  known  previously   as  Live Search  ,  Windows  सजीव  Search ,  और   एमएसएन   ढूंढें   )  is a  वेब  search engine ( advertised  as  a ``  निर्णय  engine `` ) from Microsoft  .
bing  was unveiled by Microsoft CEO  स्टीव   बाल्मर  on May 28 ,  2009  at the All Things Digital conference  in  San Diego for release on  जून   1   .
notable  changes include  the  listing  of  search  सुझाव   जबकि  queries  हैं  entered  और  a list  of  related searches (  पुकारा   ``  Explore pane ''  )  based  on   semantic  technology from  powerset  which  microsoft  purchased  in  2008  .
On July 29  ,  2009  ,  Microsoft and Yahoo ! announced a  सौदे  in which Bing would  शक्ति  Yahoo  !  Search .
सब  Yahoo ! Search global customers and partners are expected to have  बना  the transition by  जल्दी  2012  .
In October 2011  ,  Bing announced it  थी  working on new back-end search infrastructure ,  साथ   the  goal  of  delivering faster and  थोड़ा  more relevant  ढूंढें   परिणाम  for users .
ज्ञात  as ``  बाघ  '' , the new index-serving technology has been incorporated into Bing globally  ,   चूंकि  August 2011 .
In May  2012   ,  Bing  घोषित  another redesign of  इसके  search engine that  शामिल  `` Sidebar '' ,  a  social  विशेषता   कि   खोज   उपयोक्ता  ' social  संजाल   लिये  information relevant to the search query .
a  diagram showing an  i   गठन  on  ठोकर   और  a  4-3  Formation  on  defense
In American football ,  प्रत्येक  team has  ग्यारह  players on the field  at  one time  .
The specific role that a  खिलाड़ी   takes   on  the  फ़ील्ड   is  called their position .
अंतर्गत  the modern  नियम   of  American football ,  टीमों  are allowed unlimited subsititutions  ,  that is teams may change  कोई  number of players  बाद   कोई  play .
इस  has resulted in the development of  तीन  `` platoons  ''   of  players ,  the  offense ( the  टोली  with the ball ,  जो  is  trying  to score ) , the  रक्षा  (  the   टोली  trying to  prevent  the other team from  स्कोरिंग   ,  and to take  the   बॉल  from  उन्हें  ) , and the special  टीमों  ( who play in kicking situations )  .
Within those platoons  ,  various  विशिष्ट  positions exist depending on  कया  the player 's main  जॉब  is .
The Irish people  (  or  na  hÉireannaigh ; Ulster-Scots  :   airish  fowk )  हैं   an  ethnic group who  originate  in Ireland ,  an   द्वीप   in  northwestern Europe  .
Ireland has  महरूम  populated  लिये  around  9,000   सालो  ( according to archaeological studies ,  देखिए  Prehistoric Ireland )  .
the  Irish people  's   earliest  ancestors are  अंकित  in legends – they are  claimed  to  be  descended from  समूह   ऐसे  as the  nemedians  , Fomorians  ,  Fir Bolg , Tuatha  dé  Danann  और  the  milesians  .
Lebor  gabála  Érenn , a book of  आयरिश  mythology tells that Milesians were Scythian  वंशजों  .
The main groups that interacted with the Irish in the  मध्य  Ages include  the   picts   ,   स्कॉट्स   ,   और  the Vikings  .
Due to this contact , Icelanders are noted for  having   कुछ  Irish descent .
the   anglo-norman   आक्रमण   of  the High  मध्य  Ages ,  the  English plantations  और  the subsequent English rule of the  देश  introduced the  normans  and  फ्लेमिश  into Ireland .
Welsh , Picts , Bretons , and small parties of  gauls  and  भी  Anglo-Saxons are  ज्ञात  in  आयरलैंड  from  much  earlier  टाइम्स  .
वहीँ  have been many  notable  Irish people throughout history .
The  6th  century Irish  भिक्षु  and missionary  columbanus   is  regarded as one  of  the ``  fathers  of Europe '' , followed  by  Kilian of Würzburg and Vergilius of Salzburg  .
The scientist Robert Boyle is  माना  the `` father  of  chemistry  ``  .
Famous  आयरिश  explorers include Brendan the  नाविक  , Robert  mcclure   ,  Ernest Shackleton and Tom Crean .
By some  खाते  , the first European  चाइल्ड  born  in   उत्तर  America had  आयरिश  descent on  दोनो  sides  ;  and an Irishman was the first European to set  पैर  on American soil  in  Columbus ' expedition of 1492  .
There are  वंशजों  of Irish people  जीना  in  अनेक  western countries  ,  particularly  in  English-speaking  देशों   .
Historically  ,  emigration has been caused  by  politics  ,   अकाल   और  economic issues .
an  estimated  50  to 80  लाख   लोगों  are  वंशजों  of Irish  लोगों   ,  primarily in the United  किंगडम   ,  the  संयुक्त  States  ,  Australia , Canada and Iceland ; there  हैं   भी   छोटी  numbers  in  Argentina , Chile , Mexico  ,   जमैका  , Barbados  ,   दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी  , New Zealand ,  फ़्रांस  , Germany and Brazil .
The largest number of  वंशजों   of  Irish people live  in   the  United States .
The number of people  जीना  in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  who are of  आयरिश  descent is higher  ,  as a percentage of  कुल  population  ,   than  that of  कोई   अन्य  country .
लगभग  forty percent of the settlement population of Iceland came from Ireland or Scotland .
The very  पहला  inhabitants of  आइसलैंड   यहूद  Irish .
The Hubble  स्पेस  Telescope  (  HST )  is  a space telescope  कि  was  carried  into orbit  by   a  Space Shuttle in 1990 and remains  in  operation .
a  aperture telescope in  कम   धरती   कक्षा  , Hubble  's   चार  main  यंत्र   observe  in the near  पराबैंगनी   ,  visible , and near infrared .
The telescope  is  named  बाद  the astronomer Edwin Hubble  .
हबल  's  कक्षा  outside the  distortion  of Earth 's atmosphere allows  it  to take extremely sharp images with almost no  पृष्ठभूमि   लाइट   .
हबल  's  गहन  Field  have  been some of the most  विस्तृत  visible-light images ever  ,  allowing  a  deep view  into  space and  समय   .
Many Hubble  observations  have led to breakthroughs in astrophysics  ,  such as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the universe .
Although not  the   पहला  space telescope ,  हबल  is one of  the  largest and most versatile , and is well known  as  both a  vital  research tool and  a  public relations boon for  खगोलशास्त्र   .
The HST was built  by  the United  राज्य  space agency NASA ,  साथ  contributions from  the   यूरोपीय  Space  एजेंसी  ,  और   is  operated by  the   स्पेस  Telescope Science  संस्थान   .
The HST is one of  नासा   's  Great  observatories   ,  along with the Compton Gamma  रे   वेधशाला   ,  the Chandra  x-ray  Observatory , and the Spitzer Space  दूरदर्शी   .
Space  telescopes   यहूद  proposed  as  early as  1923  .
Hubble  थी   वित्तपोषित   in  the 1970s  ,  with a proposed  लॉन्च  in  1983  ,  लकिन   the   प्रोजेक्ट  was beset by technical delays  ,  budget  समस्याएं  ,  और   the  Challenger disaster  .
जब   आखिरकार  launched in  1990  , scientists found that the main  दर्पण   था   महरूम  ground incorrectly , compromising the telescope 's capabilities .
The telescope was restored  to  its intended quality  by  a servicing mission in 1993  .
Hubble is  the   तभी  telescope designed to be  सर्विस  in space by astronauts .
Between 1993 and 2002 ,  चार  missions repaired , upgraded ,  और  replaced  प्रणालियों  on the  दूरदर्शी   ;  a fifth mission was canceled  on  safety grounds  following  the  कोलंबिया  disaster .
However  ,   बाद  spirited public discussion , NASA administrator Mike  griffin   स्वीकृत  one final servicing mission  ,   समाप्त  in  2009  by Space Shuttle  अटलांटिस  .
The telescope is now expected  to   फलन  until  at  least 2013 .
Its  वैज्ञानिक  successor ,  the   जेम्स   webb  Space Telescope  (  JWST )  ,  is to be launched in  2018   or  possibly later .
anti-inflammatory   refers   to  the property of a  पदार्थ  or treatment that reduces inflammation .
Anti-inflammatory drugs  मेक   up  about half of analgesics ,  remedying  pain  by  reducing inflammation as opposed to opioids  ,  which  affect   the  central  बेचैन   प्रणाली  .
The Tonight Show is a US late-night talk show that has  aired   on   एनबीसी  since 1954  .
It is the longest currently running  regularly  scheduled entertainment program  in   the  US  और   the  third longest-running show on NBC after Meet  the   दबायें  and  आज  .
The Tonight Show was hosted by  स्टीव   एलन   (  1954–1957  )  ,  जोकर   paar  ( 1957–1962 )  ,  Johnny Carson  (  1962–1992 ) , Jay  लीनो  (  1992–2009   ,  2010–present ) , and Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ) .
अनेक  guest hosts also appeared , particularly during the Paar  और  Carson  eras  .
The longest-serving host to  तिथि  was  जॉनी   कार्सन  , who hosted The  tonight  Show Starring  जॉनी   कार्सन  for 30  सीज़न  from the  पतन  of  1962  through the  वसन्त  of 1992 .
The current  मेजबान  of the  दिखाएँ   is  Jay Leno  ,  who had previously hosted  the  show from 1992 to  2009   और  began his second  कार्यकाल  on March 1 , 2010 .
On April 3 , 2013 , NBC announced  jimmy  Fallon  होता  become the new host of  the  Tonight  दिखाएँ  .
The  tonight   दिखाएँ   साथ  Jimmy Fallon will  प्रीमियर   फ़रवरी  24 , 2014 ,  the   दिन   बाद  the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics .
SS Andrea Doria .
सुनाया  was an ocean liner for the  इतालवी  Line ( Società di  navigazione  Italia ) home ported  in   जेनोआ   ,  Italy , most famous  लिये  its sinking in  1956   ,  when 52 people died ( 51 from immediate impact  )  .
नामित  after the 16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea Doria ,  the  ship had a gross  पंजीकरण  tonnage  of  29,100  और  a capacity of about 1,200  यात्री  and 500 crew .
लिये   a  country attempting to rebuild its  अर्थव्यवस्था  and reputation after World  युद्ध  II ,  एंड्रिया  Doria  थी  an icon of Italian national pride .
Of all  इटली   's  ships at  the   समय   ,  Andrea Doria  थी  the largest  ,   तीव्रतम  and supposedly safest .
Launched  on  16 June  1951   ,  the ship undertook its maiden  voyage   on  14 January  1953  .
On 25 July 1956 ,  जबकि  the Andrea Doria was  approaching   the  coast of Nantucket , Massachusetts  ,  bound for New  यॉर्क  City  ,  the  eastbound  of the  स्वीडिश  American Line collided  साथ  it in  कया   became  one of history 's most  infamous  maritime  आपदाओं  .
Struck in  the  side  ,  the top-heavy Andrea Doria  तत्काल  started to list severely to starboard , which left half  of   इसके   lifeboats  unusable .
the  consequent shortage of  lifeboats   might  have resulted in significant loss of life ,  लकिन  the efficiency of the ship  's  technical design allowed  it  to stay afloat  लिये  over 11 hours after the ramming  .
The good  बर्ताव   of  the crew  ,   सुधार  in communications and  the   रैपिड  response of  अन्य  ships averted  a  disaster similar  in  scale  to  that of the  in   1912  .
1,660  यात्री   और  crew were rescued and survived , while  46  people died as a consequence of the collision  .
the   evacuated   लक्ज़री  liner  capsized  and  sank  the following morning  .
This accident  remains  the worst  मेरीटाइम   विपत्ति  to  occur  in  संयुक्त  States  waters  since  the  sinking  of   the  in 1915 .
the  incident and its aftermath were heavily  covered  by  the   न्यूज   मीडिया  .
While the  बचाव  efforts were  दोनो   कामयाब   और   commendable  ,  the  cause of the  टक्कर   साथ  the Stockholm and the loss  of   एंड्रिया   डोरिया  generated much interest in the media and many lawsuits .
Largely because of  an   out-of-court  settlement agreement  between  the two  शिपिंग  companies during hearings immediately after the disaster , no  determination   of  the  कारण   (  s  )  was ever formally published  .
Although  वृहद  blame appeared initially to  पतन   on  the Italian liner , more  हाल  discoveries have indicated  कि  a misreading  of  radar on the Swedish ship may  have   initiated  the collision course  ,  leading to  त्रुटियाँ  on  दोनो   जहाजों  .
Andrea Doria  थी  the  पिछला  major transatlantic passenger  पोत  to  डूबना   पहले   वायुयान  became the preferred method of  सफर  .
Dialysis tubing
डायलिसिस  tubing  is  a type of semi-  or  partially permeable  झिल्ली  tubing made from regenerated cellulose or  सेलोफेन  .
it  can  be  used  लिये   diffusion   साथ  solutes or osmosis if used with water only .
Osmosis  is  when water passes  through   a   semi-permeable  layer to reach equilibrium .
Diffusion  ,  on the other hand , allows  the  movement of molecules  इससे  high concentration  to  low concentration  .
It will only  allow  molecules to pass  through  a semi-permeable membrane or layer  if  the  अणु  is  छोटी  enough to  अनुरूप   through  the  झिल्ली  or a membrane  's   pore  .
इस  usually results with the effects of diffusion through a membrane only really affects  छोटी  molecules , and almost never larger  अणुओं   .
Dialysis tubing is used in clinical circumstances to ensure  a  filtered flow of molecules , preventing the flow  of   larger  solute molecules .
Small  अणुओं   can   be  `` washed  ''  out  of  a solution which is pumped through  the   tubing  into a solvent ,  प्रायः  water ,  जिससे  surrounds it and in which they can be flushed away  .
In  demonstrations  of  semi-permeable  membranes ,  a  solution  containing  several  प्रकार   of  molecules  ,  usually  ग्लूकोज  and starch , is  लगाई   into  a  semi-permeable  dialysis bag , such as  a  cellulose membrane  साथ  pores , and the bag is sealed  साथ   a  knot  or  elastic band  .
The sealed dialysis bag is placed in a container  of  a  अलग   समाधान  , or  जल   .
अणुओं   छोटी   पर्याप्त  to pass  through  the tubing (  जल  , salts , monosaccharides  ,   और   अन्य  small molecules )  tend  to move into or  आउट  of the dialysis bag in  the   दिशा   of  decreasing concentration  ,  therefore displaying  diffusion  .
Larger  अणुओं  ( such as proteins ,  or  polysaccharides )  कि   have  dimensions significantly greater  than   the  pore diameter are retained inside the  डायलिसिस  bag .
The water and smaller  solutes  in  a  hypotonic solution (  a  solution that has  a   lesser  solute concentration  than  the solution it is  संदर्भित   to  ) will  क्रॉस  a semi-permeable  झिल्ली   ,   जैसे   डायलिसिस   tubing  , into a hypertonic solution ( a  समाधान  that has a higher  solute  concentration  than   the   समाधान  it is  संदर्भित  to ) in an  attempt   to   पहुँचें  equilibrium  ,  where the  solute  concentration of  प्रत्येक  solution is in equilibrium .
पारा   प्रयोगशाला  thermometer
a  thermometer  (  from the  यूनानी  ,  thermos  , meaning ``  hot   ''   और   μἐτρον  ,  metron  ,  ``  measure '' ) is  a  device that measures temperature  or   तापमान  gradient using  a   किस्में  of different principles  .
A  थर्मामीटर   रै  two important elements : the temperature  सेंसर  ( e.g . the bulb  on  a mercury-in-glass thermometer  )  in  जिससे  some physical change occurs  साथ  temperature , plus  कुछ   अर्थात्  of  converting  this  शारीरिक  change into a numerical  मान  ( e.g  .   the  visible scale that is marked  on  a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) .
There are many types  और  many uses for thermometers ,  as  detailed below in sections  of  this  आलेख   .
हिम  White and the Seven Dwarfs is a 1937  अमरीकी   एनिमेटेड  musical  काल्पनिक  film produced by Walt Disney and released  by  RKO Radio Pictures .
Based  on  the  जर्मनी   परी   टेल  by the Brothers  grimm   ,  it is the first full-length  cel   एनिमेटेड  feature film and the  earliest  in the  वॉल्ट  Disney Animated  क्लासिक  series  .
The story  थी  adapted  by  storyboard artists Dorothy Ann  रिक्त  , Richard Creedon ,  मेरिल  De Maris ,  ओटो  Englander , Earl Hurd , Dick Rickard , Ted  सियर्स  and Webb Smith .
David Hand was the  supervising  director  ,   जबकि  William Cottrell  ,   विल्फ्रेड  Jackson  ,   लैरी   morey   ,  Perce Pearce  ,  and  बेन   sharpsteen  directed the  फिल्मी   's   व्यक्तिगत  sequences .
Snow  श्वेत   premiered  at  the   carthay  Circle Theatre on  दिसम्बर  21  ,  1937 , followed by a  देशभर  release  on  February 4 , 1938 ,  और   साथ   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  earnings of  $   8  million during its initial  रिलीज  briefly assumed  the   रिकार्ड  of highest grossing  ध्वनि  film at  the  time  .
The popularity of the film has led to it being  re-released  theatrically  अनेक  times , until its home video release in the  1990s  .
समायोजित   लिये   महंगाई   ,  it  is   एक  of  the  top  टेन  performers at  the  North  अमरीकी   बक्सा   दफ्तर  .
At  the   11th  Academy Awards , Walt  डिज़्नी  was awarded  an  honorary  ऑस्कर  , and the  फिल्मी  was nominated for  बेहतरीन  Musical  स्कोर   .
It was added to  the  United States National Film Registry in 1989  और  is ranked in the American  फिल्मी  Institute 's list of the 100 greatest American films , who  भी   नामित  the film as the greatest American animated film  of  all  समय  in 2008 .
Disney 's  लो  on the fairy tale has had  a  big cultural impact , resulting in  a  popular theme  पार्क   आकर्षण  , a video game , and a Broadway musical .
Childbirth , labour ,  डिलीवरी  , birth , partus , or parturition is  the   culmination   of   a  pregnancy  काल  with the expulsion of one or more  नवजात  infants  इससे  a  स्त्री   's  uterus .
The process  of  normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of labour  :  the  shortening  and dilation  of   the   ग्रीवा  , descent and  जनम  of  the  infant ,  और   जनम   of  the  placenta  .
In many cases and with increasing frequency , childbirth is achieved  through  induction of labor  or  caesarean section , which is the removal  of   the  neonate through  a  surgical incision in the  उदर   ,   बल्कि  than  through   vaginal   जनम   .
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in the  u.S.  from 1996 to 2006 ,  और  comprise  nearly  32 % of births  in  the U.S. and  कनाडा  .
With respect to induced  मजदूर  , more than 22 %  of  women undergo induction  of   श्रमिक  in the United  राज्य  .
Medical professional  नीति  makers find that induced births  और   elective  cesarean can be harmful to  the  fetus  और  neonate as well as harmful or without benefit to the  माँ  , and  have  established  सख्त  guidelines for non-medically  indicated  induced births and elective cesarean before 39 weeks .
Viva La Bam was an MTV & Viva  दिखाएँ  which  followed  Bam  margera  and  उसके  crew as they undertook  चुनौतियां  , performed stunts and traveled the  संसार   .
The show ran for  5  seasons  between   2003  and  2005  .
flushed  Away  is  a 2006 British/American  कंप्यूटर   एनिमेटेड  action /  एडवेंचर  comedy film directed  by  David Bowers and Sam Fell .
It  थी  made  in  the partnership  between   aardman  Animations  और   ड्रीमवर्क्स  Animation ,  और   is  Aardman 's first completely  computer-animated  feature as  opposed   to  the usual  stop-motion  .
The  फिल्मी  stars  the  voice talents of Hugh  जैकमैन  , Kate  विंसलेट   ,  Andy Serkis  ,   विधेयक  Nighy  ,  Ian McKellen , Shane  richie   और   जां   रेनो  .
The story was by  sam  Fell  ,   पीटर  Lord  ,  Dick Clement ,  और  Ian La Frenais  ,  and the  पटकथा  was  लिखा   by  Dick Clement ,  इयान  La Frenais , Christopher  लॉयड  , Joe Keenan  ,  and  विलियम   davies  .
the  film  थी  released in US on 3 November  2006  , and in UK on December 1  2006  ,  और  was  वितरित   by  Paramount Pictures , except  लिये   स्विट्ज़रलैंड  , Spain , and  the   नीदरलैंड्स   ,  which were handled  by   सार्वभौमिक   तस्वीरें  .
the  Atlanta Braves are a  पेशेवर  baseball team  आधारित  in Atlanta .
The Braves are  a  member of the Eastern Division of  प्रमुख   लीग   बेसबॉल  's National League .
the  Braves  have  played in Turner Field  चूंकि   1997  .
The ``  braves   ''  name ,  जिससे   थी   पहला   प्रयुक्त  in 1912 , originates from  a   पद  for a Native American  योद्धा  .
They are nicknamed  ``  the  bravos  '' , and often referred to as  ``   अमेरिका  's  टोली  `` in  सन्दर्भ  to the team  's  games  होने   ब्रॉडकास्ट   on   the   nationally  available TBS from the 1970s until 2007  ,  gaining a  चौड़ी  fanbase .
From 1991 to 2005  the  Braves were one  of   the  most successful  franchises  in baseball  ,  winning division titles an unprecedented 14  लगातार   टाइम्स   in  that  काल  (  omitting  the strike-shortened 1994 season in which  वहीँ  were no  आधिकारिक  division  champions  )  .
The  braves  won  the   nl  West 1991–93 and the NL  ईस्ट  1995–2005 ,  और   लौटे  to the playoffs  as  the National League Wild  कार्ड  in  2010   .
The Braves advanced to the  संसार  Series five times in the  1990s  , winning the title in 1995 .
चूंकि  their debut in the  नेशनल   लीग   in   1876  ,  the  franchise  रै  won 16 divisional  शीर्षक   ,  17 National  लीग  pennants  ,  as well as  तीन  World Series championships—in 1914 as the Boston Braves  ,  in 1957  as   the  Milwaukee  braves  , and in 1995 in  अटलांटा  .
the  Braves  हैं  the  तभी  MLB franchise to  have  won the  संसार  Series in three  अलग  home cities .
the  club is one of the National  लीग   's   दो  remaining  चार्टर  franchises (  the   अन्य  being  the  Chicago Cubs ) and was founded  in  Boston , Massachusetts  ,  in  1871   as  the  बोस्टन   रेड   stockings   (   नहीं  to be confused with the American League 's Boston Red Sox ) .
They are considered `` the oldest  लगातार   playing  team in major  उत्तर  American sports  .  ''
वहीँ  is  an   तर्क  as  to  who  is  actually older because although the  शावक  are  a  full season  ``  older  ''  (  formed  as the Chicago  श्वेत   stockings  in 1870 )  शिकागो  lost  दो   सीज़न  to the  ग्रेट  Chicago Fire , thus the Braves have played more  लगातार  seasons .
After various name  परिवर्तन   (  such  as  the  बोस्टन   beaneaters  ) , the team operated as  the   बोस्टन  Braves for most of the first half of the 20th century .
In 1953  ,  the team moved to  मिल्वौकी  , Wisconsin and became  the  Milwaukee Braves  ,  followed  by  the move  to   अटलांटा  in 1966 .
The team 's  कार्यकाल  in Atlanta is famous  लिये   हांक   आरोन  breaking  बेब  Ruth 's career  घर  run  रिकार्ड  in 1974 , though  the  majority of Aaron 's home  रनों   यहूद  hit while the  टोली  was in Milwaukee  .
His record stood  जबतक  2007 ,  जब  San  फ्रांसिस्को   बाएँ  fielder  बैरी  Bonds  broke  the record .
The leaves of a Beech tree
3d  rendering of a μCT scan of a leaf  टुकड़ा  , resolution circa  40  μm/  voxel  .
a  leaf is an organ  of  a  vascular   संयंत्र  , as defined in botanical terms  ,  and  in  particular in plant  morphology  .
Foliage  is  a mass  संज्ञा  that refers  to  leaves as a feature  of   पौधे   .
Typically a leaf is  a  thin , flattened organ  borne  above  मैदान   और  specialized for  photosynthesis  , but many  प्रकार  of leaves are  adapted   in  ways almost unrecognisable in  those  terms : some are  नहीं  flat  (  for example many  रसीले  leaves  और  conifers ) , some  हैं  not  ऊपर  ground  (  such as bulb scales ) , and  कुछ  are  बगैर  major photosynthetic  फलन  (  consider   लिये  example  cataphylls  ,  कांटे  ,  और   cotyledons   )   .
Conversely , many structures of non-vascular  पौधे  , or  भी   of   कुछ  lichens , which are  नहीं  plants at all (  in   the  sense of being members of the kingdom Plantae  )   ,  do look and function much like  पत्ते  .
Furthermore , several structures  मिला  in vascular plants  dekh  like leaves but are not  दरअसल   पत्ते  ; they differ from leaves in  उनके  structures and  origins  .
Examples  शामिल   phyllodes   ,  cladodes ,  और   phylloclades  .
Title  कार्ड  for the  1937  Our  गिरोह  comedy Rushin '  बैले   .
Our  गिरोह  ( also known  as  The  छोटी   दुष्टों   or  Hal Roach 's Rascals  )  are a series of American comedy short  films  about a group  of  poor neighborhood children and their adventures .
Created by comedy  निर्माता  Hal  रोच  , the  श्रेणी  is  विख्यात  for showing children  behaving  in a  अपेक्षाकृत  natural way  ,   as   रोच   और  original  निदेशक   रॉबर्ट  F. McGowan worked to film the unaffected , raw nuances  apparent  in regular  children   बल्कि  than have them imitate adult acting styles .
In addition ,  हमारी  Gang notably put boys  ,   लड़कियों  ,  whites   और  blacks together in a  समूह  as equals  ,  something that ``  broke  new ground , '' according  to   फिल्मी   इतिहासकार   लियोनार्ड  Maltin  .
ऐसे  a thing had  never  been  किया  before in  सिनेमा  but  रै  since been repeated after  the  success  of  Our Gang  .
the  first production at the Roach  स्टुडियो  in  1922  was a series of silent short subjects .
When Roach changed distributors from Pathé to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ( MGM  )  in  1927  , and  परिवर्तित  the series to sound in  1929  , the  श्रेणी  took off  भी   further   .
उत्पादन   जारी  at the Roach studio until  1938  , when the series was  बेची  to  mgm  ,  जो  then continued  producing  the comedies until 1944 .
The Our Gang  श्रेणी  includes a total  of  220 shorts  और  one feature film  ,  General Spanky , featuring over forty-one  चाइल्ड  actors .
as  MGM  retained  the rights to  the  Our  गिरोह  trademark following their purchase  of  the  उत्पादन  rights , the 80  roach-produced  ``  टॉकीज़  '' were  syndicated   लिये  television under the title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955 .
Both  रोच  's The Little  दुष्टों  package  (  now  स्वामित्व  by  सीबीएस   टेलीविज़न   वितरण  ) and MGM 's Our  गिरोह   पैकेज  ( now owned by  warner  Bros.  entertainment   )  have since remained in syndication , with  आवधिक   नई   प्रोडक्शन्स   आधारित  on the shorts surfacing  over  the years  ,  including  a  1994 Little Rascals feature film released  by  Universal  तस्वीरें  .
zacharias   janssen  ( also Zacharias Jansen or  sacharias   जानसन  )  (  b.1580-88 , d.pre-1632 to 1638 )  थी  a Dutch spectacle-maker from Middelburg  संबद्ध  with the  आविष्कार   of  the first optical telescope .
Janssen is  sometimes  also credited  लिये  inventing the first truly compound  सूक्ष्मदर्शी   .
However , the  उत्पत्ति  of the microscope  ,  just like the  उत्पत्ति  of the  दूरदर्शी  ,  is  a matter of debate .
Lake Tahoe ( ; Washo : dáʔaw )  is  a  विशाल   freshwater   झील  in the  सिएरा  Nevada of the United  राज्य   .
At a surface elevation  of  , it is located along the border between California and  नेवाडा  , west of Carson City .
Lake Tahoe is  the  largest alpine lake in North  अमेरिका   .
इसके  depth is , making it the United State 's second-deepest  (   the  deepest  is  Crater  झील  in  ऑरेगॉन   ,  being deeper , at  )  .
additionally   ,   झील  Tahoe is  सूचीबद्ध  as the 26th largest lake  by  volume  in   the  world  at   .
the  lake  थी  formed  परिचय  2  लाख  years  पहले  and  is  a part of the Lake  tahoe   जलाशय  with the modern  झील  being shaped during  the  ice ages .
it   is  known for  the   स्पष्टता  of its water and  the  panorama of  surrounding   kyu  on all sides  .
the  area surrounding the lake is  भी   referred  to as  झील  Tahoe , or simply  tahoe  .
Lake Tahoe is a major tourist attraction in  दोनो  Nevada  और   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
It is home to  a  number  of   स्की  resorts  ,   गर्मियाँ  outdoor  मनोरंजन  , and tourist attractions .
हिम  and  स्कीइंग  are a significant  भाग   of  the area 's economy and reputation  .
पहाड़  and lake scenery are attractions throughout  the   साल  .
The Nevada side also includes large casinos .
Highways provide  year-round  access from Reno , Carson City , and  sacramento   .
Page 1 of the Twenty-seventh Amendment 's  प्रमाणन   in  the  नेशनल  Archives
पेज  2 of the  amendment  's  प्रमाणन
Page  3   of  the amendment  's   प्रमाणन
the  Twenty-seventh  amendment  ( Amendment XXVII ) prohibits any law that increases  or  decreases the  सैलरी  of  सदस्यों   of  the Congress  इससे  taking effect  जबतक  the  प्रारंभ   of  the next set of terms of  दफ्तर  for Representatives .
it  is  the  most  हाल   amendment  to the United States Constitution .
It  थी  submitted to  the  states for ratification in 1789 and was adopted in 1992 .
“first  they  आए  ...  ”  is a famous statement  और  provocative  कविता  attributed to pastor Martin  niemöller  (  1892–1984  ) about the  सुस्ती  of  जर्मनी   intellectuals  following the  nazis  '  वृद्धि  to power and the subsequent purging  of   उनके  chosen targets , group after group .
There is some disagreement  over  the exact wording of the  quotation  and  जब   it  was created ;  the  content  of  the quotation may  have  been presented differently  by  Niemöller on different occasions .
This  सूची   of  islands by area includes all islands  in  the  संसार  greater than 2,500 km2 (  )  and several other  आइलैंड्स  over  500  km2  (  ) , sorted in  descending  order by area  .
For comparison ,  महाद्वीपों  are  भी  shown .
Four Thirds  लोगो
The Four  तिहाई   प्रणाली   is  a standard created  by  Olympus  और  Kodak for digital single-lens reflex  कैमरा  ( DSLR  )  design  और   development.  <  संदर्भ  name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13  '   >
the  system  provides  a  मानक  that ,  साथ  digital  कैमरे  and lenses available from multiple  निर्माताओं  , allows for  the  interchange  of  lenses and bodies  इससे  different  निर्माताओं  .
seems to cover the  मानक  .
Proponents describe it as  an  open  मानक  , but  कंपनियाँ  may only  उपयोग   it  under  a  non-disclosure agreement .
नापसंद  older SLR systems ,  चार  Thirds has  महरूम   designed  from the  मैदान  up to be  entirely   डिजिटल   .
Many lenses are extensively  computerized   ,  to the point that  ओलम्पस  offers  फर्मवेयर   अद्यतन   लिये   अनेक   of  them .
Lens design  रै  been tailored to the requirements  of  digital  सेंसर  , most notably  through  telecentric  डिजाइन  .
The size of the sensor is significantly  छोटी  than  लिये   सबसे  DSLRs  और  this  implies   कि  lenses , especially  telephoto  lenses  ,  can be smaller  .
लिये  example  ,  a Four Thirds lens with  a  300  mm  focal  लंबाई   होता  cover about  the  same angle  of   दृश्य  as a 600 mm focal  लंबाई  lens  लिये   the   35   mm   फिल्मी  standard ,  और  is correspondingly  अधिक  compact .
Thus ,  the  Four  तिहाई  System has crop  फ़ैक्टर  ( focal  लंबाई  multiplier  )  of about 2 ,  और  while this  enables  longer  फोकल   लंबाई   लिये  greater  आवर्धन   ,  it  करता  n't  सहायता  the manufacture of  चौड़ी  angle  lenses  .
The image sensor  स्वरूप  , generally intermediate  between  those of larger SLRs  और  smaller compact cameras , generally  देता  levels  of  cost ,  प्रदर्शन  and convenience intermediate between those two classes .
HVAC systems use ventilation air ducts installed  throughout   a   भवन  to supply conditioned  एयर   to  a room through  आउटलेट  vents , called diffusers  ;   और  ducts to remove air through  return-air  grilles .
HVAC (  हीटिंग  , ventilation ,  और  air conditioning ) is the technology of indoor and automotive environmental  सुकून  .
hvac  system design is a subdiscipline  of  mechanical  अभियान्त्रिकी  , based on  the  principles  of   ऊष्मागतिकी  , fluid  यांत्रिकी   ,   और  heat transfer .
Refrigeration  is  sometimes  added  to  the  field 's abbreviation as  hvac   &  R or HVACR  ,  or  ventilating   is  dropped as in  hacr  ( such as the designation  of  HACR-rated  सर्किट   ब्रेकर्स   )  .
HVAC  is  important  in   the   डिज़ाइन   of  medium to  विशाल   औद्योगिक  and office buildings  ऐसे  as  skyscrapers  and in marine environments such as aquariums , where safe and healthy building  शर्तें  are regulated with  आदर   to  temperature and humidity  ,  using fresh  एयर  from  बाहरी   .
Ventilation  on  the downdraught system ,  by  impulsion  ,  or the 'plenum ' principle , applied  to   schoolrooms   (  1899 )
हीटिंग  , ventilating ,  और  air conditioning is based on inventions and  discoveries   बना  by Nikolay  lvov  , Michael Faraday , Willis  वाहक  , Reuben Trane  ,  James Joule , William Rankine ,  sadi  Carnot , and many others .
the   आविष्कार  of the components  of   hvac  systems went hand-in-hand with  the  industrial revolution , and new methods of  modernization  , higher efficiency ,  और  system  कंट्रोल  are constantly introduced  by  companies  और  inventors worldwide .
the  three  सेंट्रल  functions of heating , ventilating  ,  and air-conditioning are interrelated , especially  साथ  the need to provide  थर्मल   सुकून  and acceptable indoor air quality within  उचित   संस्थापना  ,  आपरेशन  , and  मेंटेनेंस  costs  .
HVAC  प्रणालियों   can   provide  ventilation , reduce air infiltration , and maintain pressure relationships between spaces .
the  means  of  air  डिलीवरी  and  हटाना   इससे   स्पेसेस  is known  as  room  एयर  distribution  .
The starting point in carrying out  an  estimate both  लिये  cooling  और   हीटिंग   depends  on  the   exterior   जलवायु   और   आंतरिक  specified  शर्तें  .
However before taking  up  the heat load calculation , it  is  necessary to  ढूँढें   भैस  air  आवश्यकताएँ  for each area in detail , as pressurization  is  an important  विचार  .
In modern buildings the design , installation , and control systems of  ये   कृत्यों  are integrated  into  one or  अधिक   hvac  systems  .
For very small buildings ,  ठेकेदारों  normally capacity engineer and select HVAC systems and equipment .
For  larger  buildings , building services  designers  and engineers ,  ऐसे  as mechanical ,  architectural   ,   or   भवन  services  इंजीनियर्स   analyze  , design , and specify  the  HVAC systems ,  और   specialty   mechanical  contractors  fabricate  and commission  उन्हें   .
Building permits and  code-compliance  inspections of the  संस्थापना  are normally required  लिये  all sizes of buildings .
the   hvac  industry  is  a worldwide  एंटरप्राइज़  , with  भूमिकाएँ  including  आपरेशन   और  maintenance  ,  system design  और  construction ,  उपकरण  manufacturing  और  sales , and  in   शिक्षा  and research  .
the  HVAC industry was historically regulated by  the   निर्माताओं  of HVAC  उपकरण  , but  regulating   और  standards  संगठन   ऐसे   as  HARDI , ASHRAE , SMACNA , ACCA , Uniform Mechanical Code , International Mechanical  कोड   ,   और   amca  have been established to  support   the   उद्योग  and  प्रोत्साहित  high  मानकों  and achievement .
Royal Navy  कमांडर   जेम्स   बंध  , CMG , RNVR  ,  is a  fictional  character created by British journalist and  उपन्यासकार  Ian Fleming in 1953 .
He is  the   समर्थक   of  the James  बंध  series  of   novels  , films  ,  comics and video games .
Fleming wrote twelve  बंध   novels  and two short story  संग्रहण   पहले  his death , although the  पिछला   दो  books— The Man  साथ   the  Golden Gun and  octopussy  and  the  Living Daylights  —were  published posthumously  .
The  बंध  character is a Secret  सेवा  agent  ,  code number 007 ,  residing  in London but active  internationally  .
Bond was a  कम्पोजिट  character who was based on a number of  कमांडो   जिसको   फ्लेमिंग  knew during his service  in  the Naval Intelligence Division during World War II  ,  to whom Fleming added  उसके   अपना   स्टाइल  and a  क्रमांक   of   उसके  own tastes ; Bond 's name was  appropriated  from American ornithologist James Bond .
बंध  has a number  of  character traits  जिससे   चलाएं  throughout the  किताबे  , including an  enjoyment  of cars , a love  of   खाना  and drink  ,  and an average intake  of  sixty custom-made cigarettes a  दिन  .
Since Fleming 's  मौत  in 1964 , there  have  been  अन्य  authorised  लेखक  of Bond material ,  सहित  John  गार्डनर  , who wrote  चौदह  novels and two  novelizations   और  Raymond Benson ,  जो   लिखा  six novels  ,  three novelizations and three short stories .
There have also been three  लेखक  who  लिखा  one book each ,  किंग्सले  Amis  (  writing  as  Robert Markham )  ,  Sebastian Faulks and  jeffery  Deaver .
Additionally a series of novels based on Bond  's  youth—  यंग  Bond —was written by Charlie Higson .
As spin-offs  इससे   the   साहित्यिक  works ,  वहीँ  was  a  television  अनुकूलन  of  the  first  अनोखा   ,  Casino Royale , in which Bond was played as  an  American  एजेंट   .
A comic strip series  भी   भागा  in  the   रोज़  Express newspaper .
वहीँ  have also  महरूम  twenty-five  बंध  films ; seven  अभिनेताओं  have played Bond  in   ये  films .
``  प्रकृति  Boy  ''  is a song  by   ईडन  Ahbez , published in 1947 .
The song tells a fantasy of  a   ``  strange enchanted boy ...  जो  wandered  बहुत   दूर   ''  only to learn  कि  ``  the  greatest thing ... was just  to  love  और  be loved in return '' .
Nat  किंग  Cole  's  1948 recording of  the  song  थी  a  प्रमुख  hit  और  `` Nature Boy ''  रै   चूंकि  become  a  pop and jazz standard , with dozens  of  major artists interpreting the song .
Louisiana ( or  ;  , ; Louisiana  क्रियोल   :  Léta  de  la Lwizyàn ) is  a  state  स्तिथ  in the southern region of  the   संयुक्त  States  of  America .
Louisiana is  the   31st  most  extensive  and the 25th most populous  of  the 50 United States .
Its capital is Baton Rouge and largest city is New Orleans .
louisiana   is  the only state  in  the U.S.  साथ  political subdivisions termed parishes , which are  लोकल  government 's equivalent to counties .
The largest  मोहल्ला  by population is East Baton  रूज  Parish ,  और   the   largest   by   जमीन  area  is  Cameron Parish .
Much of the state  's  lands were formed from sediment washed down the Mississippi River , leaving enormous deltas and vast  क्षेत्रों   of  coastal marsh and swamp .
These  contain   a  rich southern biota ; typical examples  शामिल  birds  ऐसे   as  ibis  और  egrets .
वहीँ  are  भी  many  प्रजाति   of  tree frogs ,  और   मछली  such as sturgeon and paddlefish  .
in  more elevated areas , fire is a  प्राकृतिक   प्रक्रम  in  the  landscape  ,  and has produced  extensive   क्षेत्रों  of longleaf pine  वन  and  गीला   savannas  .
These support an  exceptional  large number of plant species ,  सहित  many species of orchids and carnivorous plants .
Some Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural  ,  multilingual  विरासत  , being so strongly influenced by an admixture of  18th-century   फ्रेंच  ,  स्पेनी   ,   देशी  American (  भारतीय  ) and African cultures that they are considered to be somewhat exceptional in the  u.s  .
पहले  the American purchase of the territory , the  वर्तमान   louisiana  State had been  दोनो  a Spanish  और  French  उपनिवेश  .
In  जोड   ,  the pattern  of  development included importing  numerous  African slaves in the  18th  century  ,  with  अनेक  from  the  same region of West Africa , thus concentrating their  संस्कृति  .
in   the  post-Civil War environment  ,  Anglo-Americans  increased   the   दबाव  for Anglicization , and in 1915 , English was made the only official language of the state  .
महिलाओं   's  rights are  the  rights and entitlements claimed  लिये  women and girls  of  many  समाजों  worldwide .
In some  स्थान  these rights are  institutionalized   or  supported by  विधि  ,  लोकल   कस्टम  ,  और  behaviour , whereas  in  others  वे   may  be  उपेक्षित   or  suppressed .
They differ from broader  धारणाएं   of  human rights  through  claims  of  an inherent historical  और   परंपरागत  bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys .
Issues commonly  संबद्ध   साथ  notions  of   महिलाओं   's  rights include  ,  though  हैं   नहीं   सीमित   to   ,  the right : to bodily integrity and autonomy ;  to  vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ;  to  fair wages or equal  अदा  ; to  अपना  property ; to education ; to serve  in  the  सैन्य   or  be conscripted ;  to  enter into  विधिक   अनुबंध   ;   और  to have marital , parental  और   धार्मिक  rights  .
The laws  of  science or  वैज्ञानिक   कानून  are statements  कि   describe  , predict ,  और   शायद  explain why  ,   a   दायरा  of phenomena  व्यवहार   as   वे   appear  to in  प्रकृति  .
The  पद  `` law  ''  has diverse usage  in  many cases : approximate ,  सटीक   ,  broad or narrow theories  ,   in  all  प्राकृतिक   वैज्ञानिक  disciplines ( physics , chemistry , biology , geology  ,   खगोलशास्त्र  etc . ) .
An  analogous   पद   लिये  a  वैज्ञानिक  law  is   a   principle  .
Scientific laws:
summarize  a large collection of  तथ्य  determined by experiment into a single statement,
can  usually be formulated mathematically as one or several  कथन   or   समीकरण  , or at least  stated   in  a single  वाक्य  , so that it can be used to predict the outcome  of   an  experiment ,  दिए  the  आरंभिक  , boundary  ,  and other physical conditions of  the  processes which take place,
are strongly supported by  अनुभवजन्य  evidence - they are  वैज्ञानिक  knowledge  कि  experiments have repeatedly  सत्यापित  ( and never falsified ) .
Their accuracy does not change when  नई  theories  हैं  worked out , but rather the scope  of  application , since the equation  (   if   कोई  )  representing   the   विधि  does not  बदलें   .
As  साथ  other  वैज्ञानिक  knowledge , they do not  have  absolute certainty  जैसे  mathematical theorems or identities , and it  is  always  संभावित  for a  विधि  to be  विकल  by future  observations  .
are often quoted as a  आधारभूत  controlling  influence   बल्कि   than  a description of  observed  facts  .
I.e  .  `` the  कानून  of  गति  require that ''
Laws differ from hypotheses and postulates  ,   जिससे  are proposed  दौरान   the  scientific process before and  दौरान   validation  by  प्रयोग  and observation  .
ये  are  नहीं  laws since  वे  have  नहीं  been verified to the  वही  degree and may  नहीं  be sufficiently  सामान्य   ,  although  वे   may  lead to the formulation  of  laws  .
A law is a more  solidified  and formal statement , distilled  इससे  repeated experiment .
Although  the  concepts of a law  or  principle in nature is borderline  to   दर्शनशास्त्र   ,  and presents the depth  to  which  गणित  can  describe  nature  ,  scientific laws are  माना  from a  वैज्ञानिक  perspective and follow the  वैज्ञानिक   विधि  ; they  ``  serve their purpose '' rather  than  `` questioning  वास्तविकता  '' ( philosophical  )  or `` statements of  लॉजिकल  absolution '' ( mathematical ) .
लिये  example ,  whether  a law  ``  refers to reality ''  is  a  philosophical  issue , rather than scientific  .
Fundamentally , all scientific laws  follow  from physics  ,  laws which occur  in  other sciences ultimately follow from physical laws .
प्रायः  ,  इससे  mathematically fundamental viewpoints , universal constants  emerge  from scientific laws .
The  लॉन्च   of  the  प्लेस्टेशन   3   into  the Japanese  मार्केट   on  10  नवम्बर  2006 marked the second major seventh  पीढी  entertainment  प्रणाली  to be released  .
The  प्रणाली   थी  released seven days later on 17 November in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
Introduction  into  other  संसार   बाज़ार  was delayed  by  a  shortage  of  diodes   लिये   उपयोग  in the Blu-ray disc player ; the device  थी  launched  in   यूरोपीय  and  अन्य  world  बाज़ार  in  the  first  हाफ   of   2007  .
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin ( formerly Williams and  grainger   )  is a fictional  अक्षर  from  the   सीबीएस  soap operas  the  Young  और  the Restless and The Bold and the Beautiful  ,  portrayed  by  Tracey  E.   bregman  .
वो  made  उसके  debut during the episode airing on January  21  ,  1983  .
In 1992  ,   bregman  began making  विरल  appearances on The Bold and the Beautiful , later  resulting   in  the character migrating  वहीँ  fully in 1995 .
Following a  अतिथि   रूप  in  2000   ,  Bregman returned  to  The Young and  the  Restless on  अगस्त  24 , 2001  ,  remaining on recurring status .
In 2013 , it  थी  announced  कि  Bregman  था   महरूम  placed  on  contract .
Much of Lauren 's history  रै  revolved  around  her romances with Paul Williams ,  स्कॉट  Grainger  ,  Sr.  ,  and Michael  baldwin  among  अनेक   अन्य   causing   a  fierce rivalry  साथ  Traci Abbott  connolly  .
लॉरेन  is  भी  famous  लिये  her long ,  हिंसक  rivalry with Sheila  कार्टर  .
The  2010   एनबीए  Finals was the  नेशनल  Basketball Association ( NBA ) championship series for the 2009–10 season  .
the  best-of-seven playoff  थी  contested between  the  Los  एंजिल्स  Lakers , champions of  the  Western  सम्मेलन  and  defending  NBA  champions  , and the Boston Celtics  ,  champions of the  पूर्वी  Conference .
The Lakers  पराजित   the  Celtics  ,   चार   खेल  to three  ,  to win the franchise 's  16th  NBA championship .
the  64th  संस्करण  of  the  championship series  थी  played between  जून  3  और   जून   17  ,  थी  broadcast on  एबीसी   ,  and  थी   देखी   by  an average of 18.1 million people .
the  Celtics earned their berth into  the  playoffs  by   जीतना   the  Atlantic Division .
The  लेकर्स  won the  प्रशांत   प्रभाग  to earn their berth .
The Celtics reached  the   एनबीए  Finals by defeating  the   मियामी   ऊष्मा  in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference First  गोलाकार  , the  क्लीवलैंड  Cavaliers in  the  best-of-seven  पूर्वी  Conference Semifinals  ,  and  defending  Eastern  सम्मेलन  champion  ऑरलैंडो   जादू  in the best-of-seven  पूर्वी   सम्मेलन  Finals .
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by defeating the  ओक्लाहोमा  City Thunder in  the  best-of-seven Western Conference First  गोलाकार   ,  the Utah Jazz in the best-of-seven Western  सम्मेलन  Semifinals  ,  and the Phoenix Suns in  the   best-of-seven  Western Conference  फाइनल  .
The NBA Finals were  अनुसूचित  in the Major League Baseball World Series 2–3–2 seven game format  ,   साथ   the   लेकर्स  possessing  home-court  advantage as a reward for finishing with better regular  ऋतु   रिकार्ड   than  the Celtics .
Repeated  baskets  from  स्टार्टर  Kobe Bryant , Pau Gasol , and Ron Artest brought the Lakers close to victory in Game 1  .
a  record  तोड़कर   प्रदर्शन   इससे  Ray Allen 's eight three-point  baskets  ensured the Celtics a Game  2  triumph  .
डेरेक  Fisher ’s 11 points in the  चौथी  quarter helped the Lakers win  खेल  3 .
the  Celtics won Game 4 ; it  किया   n't  hurt  कि   वे  netted an excellent performance in baskets  by   the  team’s reserves , while Paul  पियर्स  led  the  team to a Game 5 win with  27  points  on  57  %  shooting from the  मंजिल  .
the  Lakers avoided  विलोपन   by   जीतना   a  decisive Game 6 with 24 points contributed by their bench  .
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 points early in  the   तीसरा  quarter  ,   the   लेकर्स  rallied  और   जीती   उनके  second  लगातार  championship by taking over  an  exciting  खेल   7  aided by late contributions on offense by Pau  gasol  and Artest and  rebounding  .
ब्रायंट  was named Most Valuable Player of the Finals for his  दूसरी  consecutive trophy .
This was the first  एनबीए  Finals  to  go  the  full seven games since and only the  चौथी  since  the  NBA Finals  लौटे  to a 2–3–2  स्वरूप  in  .
The  laker   मताधिकार  has 16 NBA Championships  (  Five in  मिनियापोलिस  ,  11  in Los Angeles ) trailing  the   सेल्टिक्स   '  seventeen championships .
The NBA  फाइनल  used  the  `` World Series ''  स्वरूप  in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated  the   वॉशिंगटन  Capitols 4  खेल  to 2  ;  in 1953  मिनियापोलिस  defeated  the  New  यॉर्क  Knicks 4  खेल  to  1  ; in 1954 Minneapolis defeated the Syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ;  और  in 1955 Syracuse  नागरिकों   पराजित   the   फोर्ट  Wayne  पिस्टन्स  4 games to 3  .
the  NBA would return to the  2–2–1–1–1   नेशनल  Hockey League  सात  game series format until 1985 .
Black  pepper  ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the  परिवार  Piperaceae , cultivated for its  फल   ,  which  is   प्रायः   सूखी   और   प्रयुक्त  as  a   मसाला  and seasoning .
The  फल  ,  ज्ञात   as  a peppercorn  जब  dried , is approximately in diameter , dark red  जब   fully  mature , and ,  जैसे   सब  drupes , contains a single seed .
Peppercorns , and the ground pepper derived from  उन्हें   ,   may  be described simply as  pepper   ,  or  अधिक  precisely  as  black pepper (  पकाया   और  dried unripe fruit  )  ,  ग्रीन  pepper (  सूखी  unripe  फल  )  और   श्वेत  pepper ( dried ripe seeds )  .
Black pepper is  देशी   to   दक्षिण  India  ,   और  is extensively cultivated  वहीँ  and  elsewhere   in  tropical  regions   .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest  निर्माता  and  निर्यातक  of pepper , producing  34   %  of  the   संसार  's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008 .
Dried ground pepper  रै  been used since antiquity for both  इसके  flavour  और  as a medicine .
Black pepper is  the  world 's most  traded   मसाला   .
It is one  of  the most common  मसाले   added   to  European  भोजन   और  its descendants .
the  spiciness of black  pepper  is  due  to the  रासायनिक  piperine ,  नहीं   to  be  उलझन  with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs  .
it  is in the modern world  ,  often paired with  नमक  .
In cardiovascular physiology , ejection fraction (  ef  ) represents the  आयतनी   भिन्न  of blood  उत्तेजित  out of the  ventricle  ( heart ) with  प्रत्येक   दिल  beat  or  cardiac cycle  .
It can  be  applied  to   either  the right ventricle  जिससे   ejects   via  the pulmonary valve into the pulmonary circulation or  the  left ventricle which ejects via the  aortic   वाल्व   into   the  systemic circulation  .
Imaging of  the  physiology  of  the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging  रै  become  a  worldwide utility  enabling  study of cardiac performance reproducibly and inexpensively .
सरलीकृत  , Ejection fraction  is  a mathematical product  अनुमत  by  हृदय  imaging .
As a  गणितीय   पद  , Ejection  भिन्न  is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick  in  cardiac output .
समर्पित   प्रौद्योगिकी  such as Echocardiography  ,  Computed Tomography ,  चुम्बकीय   अनुनाद  Imaging and  muga  scanning  have  definitively  अनुमत   clinically  relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia , Congenital  दिल   बीमारी  and  दिल   विफलता  .
the  prosecutor is  the  chief  विधिक   प्रतिनिधि  of the prosecution in countries with  either  the common law adversarial system ,  or  the  सिविल  law inquisitorial system .
The  अभियोजन  is the  विधिक  party responsible  लिये  presenting  the  case in a criminal trial against an  व्यक्तिगत  accused  of   तोड़कर  the law .
स्ट्रॉबेरी  shortcake  सबसे   commonly   अर्थात्   a  dessert in  the  shortcake family  of  cakes  .
Strawberry shortcake may also refer  to:
Strawberry  shortcake   ,   a  character and  मताधिकार   निर्मित  by  अमरीकी  Greetings
The shortened title of  स्ट्रॉबेरी  on the  shortcake   ,  a Japanese romance movie .
abū  al-Qāsim Muḥammad  इब्न  ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib  इब्न  Hāshim ( ) ( circa|  570   –   circa|  8 June 632 )  ,   भी  transliterated as Muhammad  (   )  , was a religious , political , and military  नेता  from Mecca who unified  अरब  into  a  single religious polity under  islam  .
He is believed by Muslims  और  Bahá'ís to be  a  messenger and prophet of God .
मुहम्मद  is  लगभग   universally  considered by Muslims as the last  नबी   भेजा  by  परमेश्वर  for mankind .
Non-Muslims  लिहाज़  Muhammad  as  the  संस्थापक   of  Islam  .
Muslims consider him to be  the  restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic faith  of   आदम   ,  Noah , Abraham ,  मूसा  , Jesus  ,   और   अन्य  prophets  .
Born in about 570 CE in  the  Arabian city of Mecca , he was  अनाथ  at an  जल्दी  age and  brought   up  under  the  care  of  his  ताऊ   abu  Talib  .
He  बाद   worked   ज़्यादातर  as a merchant  ,  as  खूब  as a shepherd  ,   और  was first  शादीशुदा  by  आयु   25   .
Being in the  आदत  of  periodically   retreating  to a cave in the surrounding mountains for several nights of seclusion and prayer , he later reported that  it  was  वहीँ  , at age 40 , that he received his first  रहस्योद्घाटन   इससे  God .
Three  सालो  after this event Muhammad  प्रारंभ   उपदेश  these  खुलासे   सरेआम  ,  proclaiming  that `` God  is  One ``  ,   कि  complete ``  आत्मसमर्पण  '' to Him ( lit  .
islām  ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to  परमेश्वर  , and  कि  he himself  थी  a  नबी  and  मेसेंजर  of God , in the same  रग  as other  इस्लामी   नबियों   .
Muhammad gained few followers  जल्दी   on   ,   और  was  मिले  with hostility from some Meccan tribes  ;  he and his followers were treated harshly .
To  एस्केप   persecution  , Muhammad  भेजा   कुछ  of his followers  to  Abyssinia before  he   और   उसके  followers in Mecca  migrated  to  मदीना  (  तब  known as  yathrib  ) in the year 622  .
This event ,  the   हिज्र  , marks the beginning  of  the Islamic calendar , which is also known  as  the Hijri Calendar .
in  Medina , Muhammad united the tribes  अंतर्गत  the  संविधान  of Medina .
After  आठ  years of fighting with the Meccan tribes  ,   उसके  followers  ,  who  by  then  था  grown to 10,000 , took control of  मक्का  in  the  largely peaceful  conquest  of  मक्का  .
He destroyed the pagan idols in  the  city and then sent his  अनुसरणकर्ता   आउट   to  destroy all of  the   बाकी  pagan temples  in  Eastern  अरब   .
In 632 , a few months after returning  to   मदीना   इससे   the  Farewell Pilgrimage  ,   मुहम्मद  fell ill and died .
By the time  of   उसके  death  ,  most of the Arabian Peninsula  था  converted to  islam  , and he had united Arabia into  a  single Muslim  धार्मिक  polity .
The  खुलासे  ( or Ayah , lit  .
`` Signs  [  of God ] ''  )  — which  मुहम्मद   reported   receiving   जबतक  his death  –  form the verses  of   the  Quran  ,  regarded  by   मुसलमान  as  the  `` Word of God '' and  around  which the religion is based .
Besides the Quran ,  मुहम्मद   's  life  (  sira ) and traditions (  सुन्नत  ) are also upheld by Muslims as  the  sources of sharia  विधि  .
वे   discuss  Muhammad  और   अन्य   नबियों  of  islam  with reverence , adding  the   phrase  peace  be  upon him  whenever  their  names   हैं  mentioned .
जबकि   conceptions  of  मुहम्मद  in medieval Christendom and  premodern  times  यहूद  largely negative ,  appraisals   in  modern history have been far less so .
the  Great Books  (  second edition )
Great Books of  the  Western  संसार   is  a series of books originally published in the  संयुक्त  States  in  1952  by   ब्रिटैनिका  Britannica  inc.  to present the  ग्रेट  Books  in  a single package  of  54 volumes  .
the  series is now in its second edition  और   contains  60  आयतन   .
The original  सम्पादक  of  the  series  chose   तीन   मापदण्ड  for  समावेश  : a book must be  प्रासंगिक  to  समकालीन  issues , and  नहीं  only  महत्वपूर्ण   in  its historical context ; it must reward rereading ; and it must  be  a part  of   ``  the great  वार्तालाप  about the great  विचार  ,  ''   प्रासंगिक  to at  तनिक   25  of the 102 great ideas identified by the editors .
Books were not  चुनी  on the  आधार  of ethnic or cultural inclusiveness  ,  historical influence , or  the  editors  '  agreement with the views  expressed  .
`` Cocaine '' is a  सोंग   लिखा  and recorded by JJ Cale in  1976  , but also  ज्ञात  as a cover version recorded by Eric Clapton .
Allmusic calls the  latter  `` among  [  Clapton 's  ]  most enduringly popular hits  ''  and notes that `` even for  an  artist like Clapton with a huge  देह  of  high-quality  work , 'Cocaine ' ranks among  उसके   बेहतरीन   .   ''
glyn  Johns , who had previously worked  साथ   the  Who , Led Zeppelin and  the  Rolling  पत्थरों  , produced the  क्लैप्टन  recording , which was  released  on Clapton 's  1977   एल्बम   slowhand  and as  a  single in 1980 .
The live version of `` Cocaine '' , from the  बस  One Night album recorded in Tokyo , charted  on  the  बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 as the  b-side  of `` Tulsa Time `` , which  थी  a  no  . 30 hit in 1980. ``
Cocaine ''  थी  one  of  several  of  Cale 's songs recorded by Clapton , including ``  बाद  Midnight `` and ``  travelin   '   लाइट   ''  .
the  attack  on   पर्ल   हार्बर  (  पुकारा  Hawaii Operation or  आपरेशन  AI by the Japanese  इम्पीरियल   सामान्य   मुख्यालय  ( Operation Z  in   नियोजन  ) and  the  Battle of  पर्ल   हार्बर  )  थी   a  surprise military  स्ट्राइक   conducted  by  the   इम्पीरियल  Japanese Navy against  the  United States naval base  at  Pearl  हार्बर   ,  Hawaii , on the morning of  दिसम्बर   7  , 1941 (  दिसम्बर   8   in   जापानी  )  .
इससे  the standpoint  of  the  defenders  ,  the  attack commenced  at  7:48 a.m. Hawaiian  समय  .
The attack  थी  intended  as  a preventive  कार्रवाई  in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet  इससे  interfering with military actions  the  Empire  of   जापानी   थी  planning in  southeast  Asia against  विदेशी  territories of the United Kingdom  ,  the  नीदरलैंड्स  , and the United States .
The base  थी  attacked by 353  जापानी  fighters , bombers and torpedo planes  in  two waves  ,   शुभारम्भ  from six aircraft carriers .
सब  eight U.S. Navy battleships were damaged , with four being sunk  .
दो  of  ये  were  बाद  raised , and with the remaining four repaired  ,  six battleships returned to service  बाद  in the war .
The Japanese  भी  sank or damaged  तीन  cruisers  ,   तीन  destroyers ,  an  anti-aircraft  प्रशिक्षण  ship , and one  minelayer   .
188  u.S.   वायुयान  were destroyed ;  2,402  Americans  यहूद  killed and 1,282 wounded .
महत्वपूर्ण  base installations  ऐसे  as the power station ,  डॉकयार्ड  , maintenance , and  ईंधन  and torpedo  भंडार  facilities ,  as  well as  the   पनडुब्बी   पियर  and headquarters  भवन  ( also home of the intelligence section  )  were not attacked  .
Japanese  नुकसान  were  लाइट  : 29 aircraft and  पाँच  midget submarines lost , and  65  servicemen killed  or  wounded .
One Japanese sailor was  captured   .
The  आक्रमण  came as  a  profound  शॉक  to the  अमरीकी  people and led directly  to  the  अमरीकी  entry  into  World War II in both  the  Pacific and European theaters .
the  following day (  दिसम्बर  8 ) , the United States declared war on  जापानी  .
Domestic support for non-interventionism , which had been strong , disappeared .
clandestine   support   of  Britain  (  for example  the  Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance  .
subsequent  operations by the U.S. prompted Germany  और  Italy to declare  युद्ध  on the U.S.  on  December  11  , which  थी  reciprocated by the U.S. the  वही   दिन  .
वहीँ  were numerous  ऐतिहासिक  precedents for unannounced  सैन्य   कार्रवाई  by Japan .
however  ,  the  lack of any formal warning , particularly while negotiations were still  जाहिर  ongoing  ,  led  अध्यक्ष   फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt  to   proclaim  December 7 , 1941 , `` a date which will live in infamy `` .
प्रोजेक्ट  Runway  ऋतु  2 was the second  ऋतु  of Bravo 's successful Project  रनवे   ,  a  वास्तविकता   प्रतियोगिता  for fashion designers .
ऋतु   2  began airing on December 7  ,  2005 .
following  a nationwide search earlier in  the   साल   ,  sixteen designers were chosen  as  semi-finalists and brought to New York City in June , 2005 .
After  the  first challenge , called `` Road To  the   रनवे  ''  ,  fourteen went on to compete as  finalists  .
The  जीतना   पंक्तियां   ,  Chloe Dao  ,   प्राप्त  $ 100,000 in  बीज  money to help launch her own line , a  2007  Saturn  आसमान   roadster   ,  a spread in  elle   पत्रिका  ,  और  a mentorship with the Banana Republic Design  टोली  .
Winning  alongside   dao  was her  मॉडल  ,  अनुग्रह  Kelsey ,  जो  received  the   elle   पत्रिका  spread .
Michael Kors and Nina Garcia  लौटे   as  judges  लिये   the  second season .
The fourth  judging   सीट  rotated each week , based  on   the  challenge  .
Tim Gunn , fashion  कुर्सी   at  Parsons The New  स्कूल  for  डिज़ाइन   ,   लौटे   as  a mentor for the designers .
Kara Janx later appeared  in  Project Runway : All Stars in 2012 , where she finished 7th out of  13  .
Andrae Gonzalo ,  in  the  वही  year , competed in the second season of the All Stars edition placing 10th out  of   13  .
An  उदाहरण  of  a  Heraclius mule
In  numismatics  ,  a  mule is a coin  or  medal minted with obverse and reverse designs not normally seen on the same  टुकड़ा  .
These can be intentional or produced by error  .
This type of error  is  highly sought  बाद   ,  and  उदाहरण   can  fetch steep prices  इससे  collectors .
The  earliest  mules are found among ancient Greek and  रोमन   सिक्के  .
Opinion is  विभाजित   between  those who think  कि  they are accidental , the result of  an   गलत  combination  of  a new die with one  कि  had  officially  been withdrawn from use  ,  or the work of coiners working with  मरता  stolen from an official mint , perhaps at a time when  एक  of  उन्हें  should have  महरूम   नष्ट  .
the   नाम   गर्भाशयी   इससे  the mule ,  the   संकर  offspring of  a   घोड़ा  and  a  donkey , due to such a  सिक्का  having two  पहलू  intended for different coins , much  as  a mule  रै  parents  of  two different species .
This page  दस्तावेज़  the tornadoes  और   बवंडर  outbreaks of 2010 .
The majority of  tornadoes   रूप  in the U.S. ,  लकिन  they can occur almost  anywhere  under the right conditions .
A  lesser  number occur outside the  u.S.   ,  most notably  in  parts  of   neighboring  southern  कनाडा   दौरान  the Northern  गोलार्ध   's  summer season ,  लकिन   हैं  also known in South America , Europe  ,   एशिया   ,  and Australia .
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported  in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   in  2010 ( of which at least 1,266 were confirmed )  ,   साथ   45  confirmed  fatalities  .
elsewhere  in the world , 11  लोगों  were  मारे  in  tornadoes  , six in  अर्जेंटीना   ,  three in the Bahamas  ,  one in Bangladesh ,  और   एक   in   जर्मनी  .
The year  थी   निकट   औसत  for  tornadoes  despite  an  extremely  शांत  early  वसन्त  period , however  ऐसे  changed after a huge  upswing  starting in late April and a  व्यस्त   लेट   वसन्त  and  गर्मियाँ  period .
The autumn months were  थोड़ा   ऊपर  average .
A lymphocyte is a type  of   श्वेत  blood cell in  the  vertebrate immune system .
अंतर्गत  the  सूक्ष्मदर्शी  , lymphocytes can  be   विभाजित  into large lymphocytes and  छोटी  lymphocytes  .
विशाल   granular  lymphocytes  शामिल  natural  कातिल  cells ( NK cells ) .
Small lymphocytes  consist   of  T cells and B  कोशिकाएं  .
Windows  powershell   is  Microsoft  's   कार्य  automation  फ्रेमवर्क  , consisting of a  command-line  shell  और   संबद्ध  scripting language  निर्मित  on .NET Framework .
PowerShell  provides  full  अभिगम  to COM  और   wmi  , enabling  प्रशासकों   to   perform   प्रशासनिक  tasks on  दोनो  local and remote Windows systems .
In PowerShell ,  प्रशासनिक  tasks  हैं   generally   performed   by  cmdlets (  सुनाया   command-lets  ) ,  जिससे  are specialized .NET classes  implementing  a particular operation .
Sets of cmdlets may be combined together  in  scripts ,  executables   (   जिससे   हैं  standalone applications  )  , or  by   instantiating   नियमित  .NET  वर्ग  ( or WMI/COM Objects  )  .
ये   कार्य   by   accessing  data in different  आंकड़ा   स्टोर्स   ,   जैसे  the  filesystem  or registry ,  जिससे  are  बना  available to the  powershell   runtime   via  Windows  powershell  providers .
Windows  powershell  also provides  a  hosting  api   साथ  which the  खिड़कियाँ   powershell  runtime can  be  embedded inside other applications .
These  अनुप्रयोग  can then use Windows  powershell   कार्यक्षमता   to   implement   निश्चित  operations , including those exposed via the graphical interface .
This capability  रै  been used by Microsoft Exchange  सर्वर  2007 to  expose  its management functionality as  powershell  cmdlets  और   प्रदाताओं  and implement the  आलेखीय  management  टूल्स   as  PowerShell  होस्ट  which invoke the necessary cmdlets  .
Other  microsoft  applications  सहित  Microsoft SQL Server 2008 also expose their management interface via PowerShell cmdlets .
With PowerShell  ,  graphical  interface-based  management applications on Windows are layered on top of  खिड़कियाँ  PowerShell .
a  PowerShell scripting interface  लिये   खिड़कियाँ  products is mandated by  the  Common Engineering  मापदण्ड  .
Windows PowerShell  शामिल  its own extensive , console-based help  ,   समान  to man pages  in  Unix shells , via  the   get-help  cmdlet .
Mary Poppins  is   a   1964   musical  film starring  जूली  Andrews , Dick Van  dyke   ,  David Tomlinson , and  glynis  Johns  ,  produced by Walt  डिज़्नी  , and  आधारित  on the Mary Poppins books  श्रेणी   by  P. L. Travers  .
The  फिल्मी  was  निर्देशित  by Robert Stevenson and written by Bill Walsh and Don  dagradi   ,  with songs  by  the Sherman Brothers .
it  was shot at Walt  डिज़्नी  Studios in Burbank ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Julie  एंड्रयूज  won  the  Academy Award for Best  अभिनेत्री  for her  प्रदर्शन   as  Mary  poppins  and the  फिल्मी  also won Oscars for Best Film  संपादन  ,  असली  Music  स्कोर   ,  Best Song for  ``  Chim Chim  cher-ee  ''  और  Best Visual Effects , and received  a  total of 13 nominations .
a  story arc is an extended or continuing storyline  in  episodic storytelling  मीडिया  such  as  television ,  कॉमिक  books ,  कॉमिक  strips  ,  boardgames ,  वीडियो  games  ,   और  in  कुछ  cases ,  films  .
On  a  television program , for example , the story would  unfold  over many episodes .
In television , the  उपयोग  of the story  चाप   is  much more common in dramas than in comedies , especially in soap operas .
webcomics   हैं  more  संभावित   to   उपयोग  story arcs than  समाचारपत्र  comics ,  as  most web  कॉमिक्स  have readable  अभिलेख   ऑनलाइन  that a  newcomer   to  the strip can  पढ़ा   in   अनुक्रम   to  understand what is going  on  .
Although  स्टोरी   arcs  have existed for decades ,  the  term `` story  चाप  '' was  coined   in   1988   in   संबंध  to  the  television series Wiseguy , and was quickly adapted for other uses  .
Many  अमरीकी   कॉमिक  book  श्रेणी   हैं   अभी   लिखा  in four or six-issue arcs , within a  continuing   श्रेणी  .
छोटी  story arcs  हैं  easier to package as trade  paperbacks  for resale  ,  and more accessible to the casual reader  than   the   never-ending  continuity that  एकबार  characterised  कॉमिक्स  .
Black Friday  is  the day following Thanksgiving Day  in   the  United States , often regarded as  the   शुरूआत  of  the  Christmas shopping season .
In recent  सालो   ,  most major retailers have opened  अत्यधिक   जल्दी  and  offered  promotional  बिक्री  to kick  बंद  the holiday shopping  ऋतु  ,  समान  to  मुक्केबाज़ी  Day sales in  अनेक  Commonwealth  राष्ट्र   .
ब्लैक  Friday is  नहीं   an  official public holiday  as   ऐसे  , but many  non-retail  employees and  स्कूलों   have  both Thanksgiving  और  the  दिन  after off , followed by a weekend , thereby  increasing  the  क्रमांक  of potential shoppers .
It  रै  routinely been the busiest  खरीदारी   दिन  of the year since  2005   ,  although news reports , which  at  that  समय  were  inaccurate  ,  have  described  it  as  the  busiest shopping day of the year for a much longer period of time .
The  दिन  's  नाम  originated in Philadelphia , where it originally was  प्रयुक्त  to describe  the  heavy  और   विघटनकारी   पैदल  and vehicle  ट्रैफ़िक  which would occur  on   the   दिन   बाद  Thanksgiving  .
Use of the term started before  1961  and began to  देखिए  broader  उपयोग   बाहर  Philadelphia around 1975 .
Later  an  alternative  स्पष्टीकरण  began to be offered  :  that `` Black Friday  ''  indicates  the  point at which retailers begin to  फेरे  a profit , or  हैं   ``  '' .
लिये  many  सालो   ,  it  थी   आम  for retailers to  खोलें  at 6:00 a.m.  ,  but in the late 2000s many had  crept  to 5:00 or  भी  4:00 .
इस  was taken  to  a  नई  extreme in  2011  , when several retailers (  सहित  Target , Kohl 's  ,  Macy 's , Best Buy , and Bealls ) opened  at   मध्यरात्रि  for the first time .
In 2012 , Walmart and several other retailers announced  कि  they  होता   खोलें  most of  उनके  stores  at  8:00 p.m.  on  Thanksgiving  दिन  ( except  in  states where opening on  थैंक्सगिविंग  is  निषिद्ध  due to  ब्लू  laws  ,  such as Massachusetts where they  स्टिल  opened around  मध्यरात्रि   )   ,  prompting calls  लिये  a walkout among some workers .
ब्लैक  Friday shopping  is  known for attracting aggressive crowds  ,  with  सालाना  reports of assaults ,  shootings  , and throngs of people trampling on other shoppers in an  attempt  to  मिलेंगी  the best deal on a product before  आपूर्तियाँ  run out  .
the  Family That Preys  is   a  2008 American movie drama written , produced  ,  and directed by  टायलर  Perry .
the  screenplay focuses on two  परिवारों  ,  एक   धनवान  and the other working class ,  जिनकी   जीवनदान  are intertwined in both love and business .
the  movie is the  दूसरी  of four in which  पेरी  's  हस्ताक्षर  character  ,  Madea , does  नहीं  make  an   रूप  .
It is also  the  second Perry-directed film (  alongside   पापा  's Little Girls ) that is  नहीं  based on  कोई   of   the  filmmaker  's  stage plays .
Net 10 , Net 15 , Net 30 and Net  60  ( also  जाल  10 days , et al )  हैं   फ़ॉर्म   of  trade credit which specify  कि  the net amount (  the  total outstanding on the invoice )  is   अपेक्षित  to  be  paid in full  और   प्राप्त  by the  विक्रेता  within 10 , 15 , 30 or 60  दिनों  after the goods are dispatched or  सेवा  is completed  .
Net 30 or  जाल  60  शर्तें  are  प्रायः  coupled with a credit for  जल्दी   भुगतान  .
The  शब्द   जाल   in   इस  sense means  ``  total after all discounts  .  ''
it  originally derives  इससे  the  लैटिन  nitere ( to  चमक  ) and  nitidus  ( elegant ,  trim   )  , and more  recently  from  the   फ्रेंच  net ( sharp ,  neat  ,  साफ  ) .
Roadtown  ,   tortola
The British West Indies were the islands in  और  around the  caribbean  that  यहूद  part  of   the  British Empire .
in  1912 ,  the  British  वेस्ट   इंडीज  were  विभाजित  into  आठ   colonies  : The Bahamas  ,   बारबाडोस  , British Guiana , British Honduras , Jamaica ( with its dependencies  the  Turks and  caicos   आइलैंड्स   और  the Cayman Islands ) , Trinidad  और  Tobago ,  the  Windward Islands and  the  Leeward  आइलैंड्स  .
Between  1958   और   1962  , all of  the  island territories  मगर   the  British Virgin Islands  ,  the Bahamas ,  अंग्रेजों  Honduras and British Guiana  यहूद  organised into  the  West  इंडीज  Federation .
It  थी  hoped that the Federation would  become  independent as a single nation ,  लकिन   it  had  सीमित  powers  ,   अनेक  practical  समस्याएं   ,  and a lack of popular support .
Consequently  ,  the West Indies Federation was  dissolved  .
Most of the  territories  , including all the larger ones  ,   हैं  now independent  as  separate countries , with membership to many international forums such as the  संगठन   of  American  राज्य  , the Association  of   caribbean  States  ,   the   संसार  Trade Organization , the  संयुक्त  Nations ,  the   caribbean  Community , the Commonwealth of  राष्ट्र   और  the  caribbean  Development Bank among  अन्य  .
The remainder are British overseas territories .
All the former nations of the British  वेस्ट  Indies ,  मगर  the Commonwealth of Dominica , Guyana  और  Trinidad and  टोबैगो   ,  are Commonwealth  realms  .
The  पद  is still  प्रयुक्त  for  अंग्रेजों  Overseas Territories in  the  Caribbean , such as  the  Cayman Islands .
The remaining British West  इंडीज
``  कया  a Wonderful World  ''   is  a song  लिखा  by Bob Thiele  (  as  ``  George Douglas  ''  ) and George David Weiss  .
it  was first recorded by  लुई   आर्मस्ट्रांग   और   released  as  a  single in 1967 .
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent  in   the   म्यूज़िक  world  (   thiele   as  a producer and Weiss  as  a composer/performer ) .
Armstrong 's  रिकॉर्डिंग   थी  inducted  in  the  ग्रैमी  Hall  of  Fame  in  1999 .
The publishing for this  सोंग  is  नियंत्रित   by   मेमोरी  Lane Music Group  ,  Carlin Music Corp. , and Bug Music , Inc .
उद्घाटन   दिन  2009 on the west steps  of  the U.S. Capitol .
अध्यक्ष   जार्ज  W.  बुश   और  First Lady Laura Bush lead the inaugural parade down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White  हाउस   ,   2005
The inauguration of  the   अध्यक्ष   of  the  संयुक्त  States is  a  ceremonial event marking the commencement  of   a  new four-year term of a president of the United  राज्य  .
The day a presidential  उद्घाटन  occurs is known as `` Inauguration  दिन   ''   और  occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the  20th  is a Sunday  )  .
(  prior  to the  बीसवीं  Amendment , the  तिथि   थी   कूच  4 , the day of the year  on   जिससे  the  संविधान  of the United States  पहला   took  effect  in  1789 ; the last inauguration to take  प्लेस  on  the  older date was Franklin  D.  Roosevelt 's first one on March 4 , 1933 . )
The most  हाल   पब्लिक   अध्यक्षीय  inauguration  रस्म  , the swearing in of  अध्यक्ष   बराक  Obama to  शुरू   उसके  second  four-year  term in office  ,  took place  on  Monday , January 21 , 2013 .
The only inauguration element mandated  by   the   संयुक्त  States Constitution is that the president  मेक  an oath  or  affirmation  पहले  that  व्यक्ति  can `` enter  on   the   निष्पादन  '' of the office of the presidency .
however  , over  the   सालो  , various traditions  have  arisen that have expanded the inauguration from a  सरल   oath-taking  ceremony  to  a  day-long  event , including parades  ,  speeches , and balls .
इससे  the presidency  of  Andrew Jackson through that of Jimmy Carter , the primary Inauguration  दिन   रस्म   took  place on the Capitol 's  ईस्ट   portico  .
चूंकि  the 1981 inauguration  of  Ronald Reagan , the ceremony has been held at the Capitol 's West Front  .
The  inaugurations  of  विलियम  Howard  taft  in  1909  and Reagan in 1985 were moved indoors at the  कैपिटल  due  to  cold weather .
The  युद्ध  of  1812  and World War II  caused   दो  inaugurations  to   be  held  at  other  स्थितियाँ   in  Washington , D.C  .
When George Washington was inaugurated ,  the   शपथ  was administered by Robert Livingston , Chancellor of New York State , in  1789   ,  and  by  William Cushing , Associate  इंसाफ  of  the  Supreme Court ,  in   1793   .
चूंकि   मुख्य   इंसाफ   ओलिवर  Ellsworth swore in President John  एडम्स  , no chief  इंसाफ   रै  missed an  उद्घाटन   दिन   .
When  उद्घाटन   दिन   रै   गिरे  on a Sunday , the chief justice has administered  the  oath to the president  on   the  Sunday privately and  तब  again the next  दिन  publicly  .
When a new president  takes   over   mid-term  due to  the  death or  इस्तीफा  of  a   अध्यक्ष  , the  शपथ  of office is administered but  औपचारिक  , public inauguration events have not been held .
Stefani Joanne Angelina  germanotta   (  ; born  कूच   28   ,  1986 ) ,  ज्ञात  by  उसके  stage name  महिला  Gaga ,  is  an American  सिंगर   ,  songwriter  ,  record  निर्माता  , dancer  ,  activist ,  businesswoman  , fashion  पंक्तियां   ,  actress  और  philanthropist .
Born and raised in New  यॉर्क   नगर   ,  she primarily studied at the  कान्वेंट  of the Sacred Heart and  briefly   attended  New York University 's Tisch  स्कूल   of  the Arts before withdrawing  to   फ़ोकस  on  उसके  musical  करियर  .
She  जल्द  began  performing   in   the   चट्टान  music scene of Manhattan 's Lower  ईस्ट   पक्ष  .
by  the  समाप्त  of 2007 , record executive and producer Vincent Herbert  हस्ताक्षरित   उसके   to   उसके   लेबल  Streamline  रिकॉर्ड   ,  an  imprint  of Interscope  रिकॉर्ड  .
initially   working   as   a  songwriter  at  Interscope Records  ,   उसके   गायन  abilities  captured  the attention of recording  कलाकार  Akon , who  भी  signed her to  kon   सजीव  Distribution  ,  his own label  अंतर्गत   interscope  .
Lady Gaga came to prominence as a recording  कलाकार   following  the release of her debut  एल्बम  , The Fame ( 2008 ) , which was a critical and commercial success that topped  चार्ट   around  the world and included the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  number-one singles `` Just Dance  ``   और   ``   पोकर  Face `` .
After  embarking   on   the  The Fame  बॉल  Tour  ,  she followed the album with The Fame Monster ( 2009 )  ,   जिससे  spawned the worldwide hit singles `` Bad  रोमांस   ``  , `` Telephone  ``  , and  ``  Alejandro  ``  .
The Fame Monsters  कामयाबी   अनुमत   उसके  to embark on the eighteen-month long  दानव  Ball Tour , which  बाद   became  one of  the  highest-grossing concert tours of all time  .
Her most recent  एल्बम  ,  born   इस  Way  (  2011 ) ,  अव्वल  the charts  of  most major markets and generated more international chart-topping singles ,  सहित  `` Born  इस   रास्ता  ``  ,  `` Judas ``  ,   और  `` The Edge of  महिमा   ``   .
बहकावे  by  britney  Spears ,  दाउद  Bowie , Michael Jackson , Madonna , and  महारानी   ,  Lady Gaga is recognized for her flamboyant ,  विविध  and outré  योगदान   to  the music industry through her fashion , performances and music videos  .
As  of  October 2011 , she has  बेची   an  estimated 23 million albums  और  64 million singles worldwide and her singles are some of the best-selling worldwide .
Her  उपलब्धियाँ  include five Grammy Awards  और  13 MTV  वीडियो  Music Awards  .
Lady Gaga  रै  consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine  's   कलाकारों  of the Year  (  scoring the definitive title in 2010 ) , ranked fourth in  vh1  's  सूची  of 100 Greatest Women  in  Music  ,  is  the  sixth  बेहतरीन   selling  digital singles  कलाकार  in US according to RIAA  ,   is  regularly  लगाई   on   सूचियाँ  composed by Forbes magazine and was named one of the most  influential  people in  the  world by Time magazine .
Besides her musical career  ,  she involves herself with humanitarian  कल्याणकारी  and  lgbt  activism  .
McKethan Stadium  घर   of  Gator baseball
A picture of  the  1924  बेसबॉल  team
The Florida Gators baseball  टोली   represents  the University of Florida in the sport of baseball .
The  फ्लोरिडा   gators  compete in Division  i   of   the  National Collegiate Athletics Association ( NCAA  )  , and the  पूर्वी  Division  of  the  southeastern  Conference  (  SEC ) .
They play their home games in  अल्फ्रेड  A. McKethan Stadium  on  the university 's Gainesville ,  फ्लोरिडा  campus  ,  and  हैं  currently  led  by head coach Kevin O'Sullivan .
In the  ninety-eight  season history  of   the   gators   बेसबॉल  program  ,  the team has  जीती  twelve SEC championships and has appeared in  आठ  College World Series tournaments .
`` Electioneering  ''  redirects here .
For  the  Radiohead song  ,  see OK Computer .
Presidential campaign  बटन  for  अब्राहम   lincoln   ,  1860 .
The reverse side of  the  button shows a portrait of his running mate Hannibal Hamlin .
a  political campaign is an organized effort  जिससे  seeks  to  influence  the   निर्णय  making process within  a  specific group .
in   democracies  , political campaigns often refer to electoral campaigns , wherein representatives are  चुनी  or  referendums  are decided .
In modern politics , the most  ऊँची  profile  राजनैतिक  campaigns are  केन्द्रित  on  उम्मीदवार  for head  of  state or head of government ,  प्रायः  a President or Prime Minister .
Elizabeth Cady Stanton  और  her  बेटी  , Harriot
Elizabeth Cady Stanton ( November  12  ,  1815   –  October 26 , 1902 ) was  an  American  सोशल   activist  , abolitionist , and leading  फिगर  of  the   जल्दी  women 's rights movement  .
Her Declaration of  sentiments   ,  presented  at  the first women  's  rights convention held in 1848 in Seneca Falls  ,   नई  York  ,   is   प्रायः  credited with initiating the  पहला  organized  महिलाओं  's rights and women 's suffrage movements in the United States .
Before  stanton  narrowed her political focus almost exclusively to women 's rights  ,  she was an  क्रियाशील   abolitionist  together  साथ  her husband ,  हेनरी  Brewster Stanton and cousin ,  gerrit  Smith .
Unlike  अनेक   of   those   शामिल  in the women  's   अधिकारों  movement , Stanton addressed various issues pertaining to women beyond voting  अधिकारों   .
उसके  concerns included  महिलाओं   's  parental and custody rights , property  अधिकारों  , employment and income  अधिकारों  , divorce  ,   the  economic  स्वास्थ्य  of the family , and birth  कंट्रोल  .
She was also  an   outspoken   समर्थक   of  the 19th-century temperance movement .
बाद   the  American Civil War ,  stanton   's  commitment to female suffrage caused a  schism  in the women 's  अधिकारों   गति   जब   वो  ,  साथ  with Susan B. Anthony ,  अस्वीकृत   to  support passage  of  the  fourteenth  and Fifteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution .
She opposed giving added  विधिक  protection and  मतदान   अधिकारों  to African American men while women  ,  black  और  white , were denied those same rights .
Her  स्थिति  on this issue , together with  उसके  thoughts on organized  christianity  and women 's issues beyond voting rights ,  led  to the formation of  दो  separate women  's   अधिकारों  organizations that were finally rejoined  ,   साथ  Stanton as president of the joint organization ,  लगभग  twenty years  बाद  her break from the  असली  women 's  suffrage   गति  .
stanton  died  in   1902  having authored both The Woman 's  बाइबल  and her  आत्मकथा   ,  along with many articles and  pamphlets  concerning female  suffrage  and women 's rights .
My Fair Lady is a musical based  upon   जार्ज   बर्नार्ड   शॉ  's Pygmalion and  साथ  book and lyrics by Alan  jay  Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe  .
The story concerns Eliza  doolittle  ,  a   काकनी   पुष्प  girl who takes speech lessons  इससे   प्राध्यापक  Henry Higgins  ,  a phoneticist  ,  so  कि   वो  may  pass  as a well-born  महिला   .
The musical 's 1956  ब्रॉडवे  production  थी   a  hit , setting  कया  was  तब   the   रिकार्ड   लिये  the longest run of any major musical theatre production in history  .
It was  followed  by a hit  लंदन  production  ,   a   लोकप्रिय   फिल्मी  version , and numerous revivals .
It has been called `` the perfect musical  ''  .
deregulation  is the  अधिनियम  or process  of  removing or reducing  राज्य   regulations   .
It  is  therefore opposite  of  regulation ,  जिससे  refers to  the   प्रक्रम  of the government  regulating  certain activities .
the  Boston  bruins  Radio  संजाल   is   a  25-station  (  17 A.M. ,  8  F.M . plus  2  F.M  .  translators ) CBS  रेडियो   संजाल   जिससे  carries  सजीव  game  प्रसारण  of the Boston Bruins .
The network 's flagship station is WBZ-FM /98.5- Boston , Massachusetts .
Dave  goucher  announces play-by-play .
Bob Beers provides color commentary .
This article is about  the  short story .
For the poem by  सारा  Teasdale  ,  see There  होगा  Come Soft Rains .
`` There Will  आइये  Soft Rains '' is  a  short story by  विज्ञान   fiction  author Ray Bradbury which  थी  first published  in  the  may  6  ,  1950 issue of Collier 's .
बाद  that  वही   साल   the  story was included in Bradbury 's  the  Martian Chronicles  (  1950 )  .
With over  1.2  billion people  ,  Han  चाइनीज  is the largest ethnic group  in  the  संसार  .
pashtun  people of the  pashtunistan   प्रदेश   ,  which sits in  an   क्षेत्रफल  between south of the  हिन्दू  Kush in  अफगानिस्तान  and  the   सिंधु  River in Pakistan .
They number around  50  million .
The  korowai   लोगों  of Papua  गिने  just around  3,000  people  ,  and  यहूद  uncontacted  जबतक  the  1970s  .
Ethnicity  or  ethnic group is a socially  पारिभाषित  category based on  आम   संस्कृति  or nationality  .
नस्ल  can ,  लकिन  does  नहीं   have  to , include common ancestry , appearance , cuisine ,  ड्रेसिंग   स्टाइल   ,  heritage , history ,  भाषा  or dialect ,  धर्म  , symbols ,  परंपराओं  , or other  सांस्कृतिक  factor  .
जातीय   पहचान  is constantly  reinforced  through common characteristics which set the group  अलावा   इससे  other  समूह  .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar  संयंत्र  in Spain  सुविधाएँ  15  घंटों  of storage and can supply power  24  hours a day .
सौर   उर्जा   ,  radiant light  और  heat  इससे  the  सूर्य  , has  महरूम  harnessed by humans  चूंकि  ancient  टाइम्स   using  a  दायरा  of  ever-evolving   technologies  .
Solar  उर्जा  technologies  शामिल   सौर  heating ,  सौर   photovoltaics  , solar thermal  विद्युत  , solar  वास्तुकला   और  artificial photosynthesis  ,  which can make considerable contributions  to   solving  some of the most urgent energy problems the  संसार  now faces .
सौर  technologies are broadly  characterized   as  either  passive  solar  or  active solar depending on the way they capture  ,  convert and distribute  सौर  energy .
क्रियाशील   सौर  techniques include the  उपयोग  of  photovoltaic  panels and solar  थर्मल   collectors   to  harness the energy .
passive  solar  तकनीकों  include  orienting  a building to the  सूर्य   ,  selecting materials  साथ  favorable thermal mass  or   लाइट   dispersing  properties , and designing spaces  कि  naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that  ``  the  विकास  of affordable , inexhaustible and clean solar energy  technologies   होगा  have huge longer-term benefits .
It will  बढ़ाएँ  countries’  उर्जा  security  through  reliance  on   an  indigenous  ,  inexhaustible  और   ज़्यादातर   import-independent  resource , enhance sustainability , reduce pollution , lower the costs of mitigating climate change ,  और  keep fossil  ईंधन  prices lower than otherwise .
These advantages are global .
Hence  the   अतिरिक्त  costs of the incentives for  जल्दी   deployment  should  be   माना  learning investments  ;   वे  must be  बुद्धिमानी  spent and need to be widely shared '' .
The classical  लैटिन  alphabet or Roman alphabet evolved  इससे   a   पश्चिमी  variety  of  the  यूनानी   वर्णमाला  called the  cumaean   वर्णमाला   ,   जिससे  was  अपनाया   और  modified by the Etruscans who ruled  जल्दी   रोम   .
the   etruscan   वर्णमाला  was  in   फेरे   अपनाया   और  further modified by  the  ancient Romans to  लिखें  the Latin language .
During the Middle Ages  ,  the Latin alphabet was adapted  to   रोमांस  languages , direct descendants  of  Latin , as well as to Celtic  ,  Germanic , Baltic  ,  and some  स्लावी   भाषाएं  .
साथ  the  आयु   of  colonialism and Christian evangelism , the Latin script  थी  spread  विदेशी  ,  और  applied  to   स्वदेशी  American , Australian  ,  Austronesian , Austroasiatic , and African languages  .
More recently , linguists have also tended to prefer the Latin script or  the  International  ध्वन्यात्मक  Alphabet (  itself  largely  आधारित  on  लैटिन  script )  जब  transcribing or creating  लिखा  standards  लिये   non-european   भाषाएं  ,  ऐसे  as the  अफ़्रीकी   सन्दर्भ  alphabet .
the   पद  Latin alphabet  may   refer  to  either  the alphabet  प्रयुक्त  to write Latin ( as  वर्णित  in this article )  ,  or other alphabets based  on  the Latin  स्क्रिप्ट   ,   जिससे  is  the  basic set  of   अक्षर   आम   to   the  various alphabets  descended  from the classical  लैटिन  one , such as the  अंग्रेज़ी  alphabet .
These Latin-derived  alphabets  may discard  अक्षर  ,  जैसे   the  Rotokas alphabet ,  or  add new  अक्षर   ,  like  the   डैनिश  and Norwegian alphabet .
Letter  आकार  have changed over the centuries , including the creation  लिये   मध्यकालीन  Latin of  निम्नतर  case forms which did not  मौजूद   in  the  शास्त्रीय  period .
The  हत्या   of  United States President Abraham  lincoln  took place on  शुभ  Friday ,  अप्रैल   14   ,   1865   ,  as the American  सिविल  War was drawing to a close  .
The  हत्या  occurred  पाँच  days after the commander  of   the  Confederate Army  of  Northern Virginia  ,  General Robert E. Lee ,  surrendered  to Lieutenant General Ulysses  S.   ग्रान्ट   और   the  Union Army of the Potomac .
Lincoln was the  पहला  American president to be  assassinated   ,  though an unsuccessful attempt had been made on  एंड्रयू  Jackson  30   सालो   पहले  in 1835 .
The assassination was planned and carried  आउट  by the well-known  स्टेज  actor John  wilkes  Booth , as part  of  a  larger  conspiracy in a bid  to  revive the  confederate  cause .
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and  दाउद  Herold , who were  आबंटित  to kill Secretary  of  State William  H.  Seward  ,   और  George  atzerodt  who  थी   to  kill  वाइस  President Andrew Johnson .
By simultaneously eliminating the  शीर्ष  three  लोगों   in   the  administration , Booth and  उसके  co-conspirators  hoped  to sever the continuity  of   the  United  राज्य  government .
Lincoln  थी   शॉट  while watching the  खेल  Our American Cousin with his  बीवी  Mary  टॉड  Lincoln  at   घाट  's  थिएटर  in Washington , D.C. on the  रात्रि  of April 14 , 1865 .
he  died early the next  morning   .
the  rest of  the  conspirators  '  plot failed ; Powell only managed  to   घाव  Seward , while  atzerodt  , Johnson 's would-be  हत्यारे   ,   खोया  his  तंत्रिका  and  fled  Washington .
add-on  might mean:
plug-in  ( computing  )  , a piece  of  software  जिससे  enhances another software application  और  usually  can  not be  चलाएं  independently
ब्राउजर  extension  ,  which modifies the interface and/or behavior of web browsers
Add-on ( Mozilla ) , a  टुकड़ा   of  software that enhances and customizes Mozilla-based applications
Add-ons for Firefox  (   addons.mozilla.org   )   ,  the official  मोज़िला  Foundation web site which serves as a repository of add-ons for  mozilla-based  applications
Peripheral , an optional computer hardware component that significantly  पूरक  or  enhances   the  functionality  of   the  original unit
Video  खेल   accessory  , a piece  of  hardware  प्रयुक्त   in  conjunction with  a   वीडियो  game console for playing video games
क्लबों  level seating is a  खास  section of  seating  in  आधुनिक   खेल   स्टेडियम   .
The Club  स्तर  is  प्रायः  located towards the middle of the stage  of  seating  भाग  , above the  निम्नतर  deck but below the upper  डेक   .
वे   हैं  usually right next to the  लक्ज़री  Boxes ,  either  right above  ,  right below , or sandwiched  between  two  स्तर  of Luxury Boxes .
Club Level seating is considered as higher  क्लास  than sitting  anywhere  else in the  एरिना  , but lower class compared  to  the Luxury Boxes .
नापसंद  the Luxury Boxes ,  सबसे  club  स्तर  do not wrap entirely around  the  arena .
Some club levels stop at a certain point ,  giving   रास्ता  to  an  expansion of the  मेज़ानाइन  ,  जबकि  others  दे  way  to  lower class Luxury Boxes (  ऐसे  as ``  पार्टी   suites  '' ) .
A  notable  exception to this is Emirates  स्टेडियम  in London , which has  a   पूरा  tier  of   क्लबों   seating  .
Club Levels allow fans multiple  स्तर  of entertainment .
Club Level seating is open to the elements , as  opposed  to  the  entirely enclosed luxury boxes  ,  which  देता   अधिक  of an outdoors impression at roofless and open-roof  स्टेडियम  and  arenas  .
क्लबों  Level seating is normally bought  on  a  अनुबंध  basis  to   allow  for maximum profit  on   the  part  of  the stadium .
The  क्लबों   स्तर  provides fans  साथ  special access  to   an  indoor  भाग  of  the   एरिना  exclusive to fans  साथ  special tickets  .
These areas  हैं   एयर   conditioned  and allow access  to  special restaurants , merchandise stands  ,  and  लाउंज  areas of the  स्टेडियम   कि  are  नहीं   वरना  available .
Concession stands and  विक्रेता   on  the  क्लबों   स्तर   भी  often offer different  मेनू  than  in   अन्य  stands  to  give  अधिक  of a special feel to the Club  .
These areas are closed off to the  बाकी  of  the   स्टेडियम  , and  वे  usually can only be accessed  through  the exclusive , private club entrances .
Sophia Loren  (  ;  born  Sofia  villani  Scicolone ; 20  सितंबर  1934 ) is an  इतालवी  actress  .
Loren is widely recognized as Italy 's  सबसे  renowned and  सम्मानित  actress .
She was the first actress of  the   talkie   era  to win an  अकादमी  Award for  a  non-English-speaking performance , for her portrayal of Cesira in Vittorio  de   सिका  's  दो  Women .
Her other awards  शामिल   a  Grammy  पुरस्कार  , five special Golden Globes  ,   a   bafta   पुरस्कार  and a  लॉरेल   पुरस्कार  .
In 1995 she received the Cecil  B.   demille  Award for  आजीवन  achievements  ,  one of many  ऐसे  awards  .
उसके  films include : Houseboat ( 1958 ) ,  el  Cid ( 1961  )  , Yesterday , Today and  कल  (  1963  ) ,  विवाह   italian-style  (  1964  )  ,  and A Special Day ( 1977  )  .
In later years  वो   रै  appeared  in  American  blockbusters  such  as  Grumpier Old Men ( 1995 )  ,  and Nine (  2009  ) .
In 1994 she starred  in  Robert  altman   's  Prêt-à-Porter  ,  which earned her a Golden Globe nomination the same year .
She has  भी  achieved critical and commercial success  in  TV movies such  as   हिम्मत  ( 1986  )  .
मौतों   लिये  self-inflicted injuries  प्रति  100,000 inhabitants in  2004   .
incidence  of suicide is  underreported  due to  दोनो   धार्मिक  and social pressures  ,  and possibly  completely   unreported   in  some areas .
Nevertheless , from  reported  cases , certain trends  हैं  apparent  .
चूंकि   the   आंकड़ा  is skewed  ,  comparing  आत्महत्या  rates between nations is statistically unsound .
the   रुझान  themselves are not the cause , but may be indicative of a root  कारण  .
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership  अकादमी   लिये   लड़कियों   -   दक्षिण  Africa is a female boarding  स्कूल   संस्थापित  in  जनवरी  2007  और   स्तिथ  in Henley on  klip  near  meyerton  , south of  जोहान्सबर्ग  , South Africa .
The academy  थी   संस्थापित   by   ओपरा  Winfrey with the goal  of   providing  educational and leadership opportunities for academically gifted  लड़कियों  from  impoverished  backgrounds .
Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls
Digicel is a mobile  फोन  network provider  ऑपरेटिंग  in 31 markets across the  caribbean   ,  Central America , and Oceania regions .
The  कम्पनी  is owned by Irishman Denis  o'brien  , is incorporated  in  Bermuda ,  और  based in Jamaica .
It has  परिचय  13 million  बेतार  users .
As  of   2012  , Digicel  's  markets comprise  :  Anguilla , Antigua and Barbuda , Aruba  ,  Barbados , Bermuda , Bonaire ,  the  British Virgin Islands  ,  the Cayman Islands  ,   कुराकाओ  , Dominica  ,   el  Salvador , Fiji , French Guiana , Grenada , Guadeloupe , Guyana  ,   हैती   ,  Jamaica  ,  Martinique  ,  Nauru , Panama , Papua New Guinea , Samoa ,  संत   किट्स  and Nevis  ,  Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the  grenadines  , Suriname  ,  Tonga , Trinidad & Tobago ,  turks  and Caicos  ,  and Vanuatu  .
इस  is  a  list of  रिकॉर्ड  of  the   फीफा   संसार  Cup  और   इसके  qualification  मिलान  .
Hospital Emergency  कोड   हैं  used  in   अस्पताल  worldwide to alert staff to various  emergencies  .
The use of codes is  intended   to  convey essential information quickly and with minimal  गलतफहमी   to   स्टाफ  , while preventing  तनाव  and  दहशत  among visitors to the hospital .
These codes may  be  posted  on  placards throughout the hospital , or printed on employee identification badges for  तैयार  reference .
Back  of  a  हॉस्पिटल  ID badge showing disaster codes .
Hospital emergency  कोड  may denote  अलग   कार्यक्रम  at different  अस्पताल  ,  सहित  nearby  ones   .
क्युकी   अनेक  physicians work at more than one facility  ,   इस  may  सीसे  to confusion in emergencies , so  वर्दी   प्रणालियों   have  been proposed .
the  route of the Eifel  जलसेतु  ,  साथ  its average  ढलान  .
The Eifel Aqueduct was one  of  the  longest  aqueducts of  the  Roman Empire  .
The aqueduct , constructed in  ad   80  , carried water some  इससे  the  hilly   eifel   प्रदेश  of what is now Germany  to  the ancient  नगर  of  colonia  Claudia Ara Agrippinensium  (  present-day Cologne ) .
If  the  auxiliary spurs to  अतिरिक्त  springs  हैं  included  ,  the length  थी  .
the   निर्माण  was almost entirely below  मैदान  ,  और  the flow of the water  थी   उत्पादित   entirely  by gravity .
A few bridges , including one up  to  in length , were  needed  to pass  over  valleys .
नापसंद  some  of  the other  प्रसिद्ध   रोमन  aqueducts  ,   the  Eifel aqueduct was  specifically   designed   to   minimize   the  above-ground portion  to  protect  it  from  क्षति   और  freezing .
In  रसायन   ,  a disulfide  बंध   (  Br.E . disulphide bond ) is  a  covalent bond  ,   प्रायः  derived  by  the coupling  of   दो  thiol groups .
The  linkage  is also  पुकारा   an  SS-bond  or  disulfide  सेतु   .
The  overall  connectivity is  इसलिए   r-s-s-r  .
the  terminology  is  widely used  in  biochemistry .
In  औपचारिक  terms  ,   the  connection is  a  persulfide , in analogy to its congener  ,  peroxide  (  R-O-O-R  )  ,  लकिन   इस  terminology is  अस्पष्ट  and  is   no  longer used ( except in  सन्दर्भ  to R-S-S-H  or  H-S-S-H compounds  )  .
Formal depiction of  disulfide   बंध  formation as an oxidation .
Westminster Abbey is used for the coronation of  अंग्रेजों  monarchs
Religion in  the  United Kingdom and  in   the   देशों  that preceded it  ,  has  महरूम   वर्चस्व  , for  over  1,400  सालो  ,  by  various forms of Christianity .
according  to some surveys , a majority of  नागरिकों  still identify with Christianity ,  हालांकि  regular church attendance has fallen dramatically since  the   मध्य  of the 20th century  ,  and immigration  और  demographic change  have  contributed to the growth of other faiths .
Religious affiliations of  uk  citizens are recorded by regular surveys , the four major  ones   होने   the  UK Census  ,  the  श्रमिक   फ़ोर्स  Survey  ,  the British Social Attitudes  सर्वेक्षण  and the European Social Survey .
According  to  the  2001  UK census  ,  Christianity is the  प्रमुख   धर्म   ,  followed by Islam  ,  Hinduism , Sikhism , Judaism and Buddhism in terms of number  of   adherents  .
इस  , and  the   अपेक्षाकृत  large number of  individuals   साथ   नाममात्र   or  no  धार्मिक  affiliations has led commentators to variously describe the  संयुक्त  Kingdom as a  multi-faith  , secularised , or  post-christian   समाज   .
The United Kingdom  थी  formed by the union of previously independent countries from  1707  , and  नतीजतन  most  of  the largest religious  समूह  do not have UK-wide organisational structures .
While some groups have separate  structures  for the individual  देशों  of  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom , others may have a  सिंगल  structure covering  इंग्लैण्ड  and Wales  or   ग्रेट   ब्रिटेन  .
similarly   ,   due   to  the  अपेक्षाकृत  recent creation of Northern Ireland  in   1921   ,   सबसे   प्रमुख   धार्मिक  groups  in  Northern Ireland are organised  on   an  all-Ireland basis  .
the  1967 Newark  दंगे  were a major civil disturbance that occurred  in  the city  of   न्यूर्क   ,  New Jersey between July  12   और  July  17  ,  1967  .
The six days of rioting , looting  ,   और  destruction left  26  dead and  सैंकड़ों  injured  .
In United States college  एथलेटिक्स  , redshirt is a  विलंब   or  suspension of an athlete 's  भागीदारी   in  order  to  lengthen his or  उसके   काल  of eligibility .
Typically , a student 's  एथलेटिक  eligibility in  a   दिए  sport is four  सीज़न  , a number derived  इससे  the four years of  अकादमिक  classes that are  सामान्यतः  required to obtain  a  bachelor 's degree at an American  कॉलेज  or university .
However  ,  a  छात्र  athlete may be offered  the  opportunity to  redshirt  for up to  दो  years , which allows the athlete to spread  those  four years of eligibility over  पाँच   ,   or  sometimes  छह   सालो  .
in   a  redshirt year ,  a  student athlete  may  attend classes at the college or university ,  अभ्यास  with an athletic  टोली   ,  and dress  लिये   खेल   लकिन   he  or she  may   नहीं  compete during the  खेल  .
Using this mechanism  ,  a  छात्र  athlete has up to five  अकादमिक   सालो  to  उपयोग  the  चार   सालो  of eligibility , thus becoming  a  fifth-year senior .
The  पद  is used  as   a  verb , noun  ,  and  क्रियाशील  .
For example ,  a   कोच  may  चुनें   to  redshirt  a  player who  is  then referred to as  a  redshirt freshman or simply a  redshirt   .
the  opposite  of  this is  a   ``   सच्चा  freshman . ''
World War I ( WWI ) was a global  युद्ध  centred in Europe  कि  began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until  11   नवम्बर  1918  .
It  थी  predominantly  पुकारा  the World  युद्ध  or the Great War from its occurrence until  the  start of  संसार   युद्ध  II  in  1939  ,  and  the  First World War or  संसार  War  i   thereafter   .
It involved all the world  's  great powers  ,  which were  समवेत  in two opposing alliances :  the  Allies (  आधारित   on  the Triple Entente of  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom  ,  France and Russia )  और  the  सेंट्रल  Powers ( originally the  ट्रिपल  Alliance  of  Germany , Austria-Hungary and  इटली   ;  but , as  austria–hungary   था  taken  the  offensive  विरूद्ध   the  agreement , Italy did not enter  into   the  war  )  .
These alliances were  दोनो   reorganised   और  expanded as more nations entered  the   युद्ध  :  इटली   ,   जापानी  and  the  United States joined  the   allies  , and the Ottoman  साम्राज्य   और   बुल्गारिया   the  Central Powers .
Ultimately  ,  more than 70  लाख  military personnel ,  सहित   60  million Europeans  ,  were mobilised in one of  the  largest wars in history .
More than  9  million combatants were  मारे  , largely because  of  technological  advancements  that led to  विशाल  increases  in  the lethality of weapons without corresponding  सुधार  in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth-  deadliest  conflict in world history ,  subsequently  paving  the  way for various political changes , such as revolutions in many  of  the  राष्ट्र  involved  .
One  of  the long-term causes  of   the  war was the  पुनरुत्थान   of  imperialism in the  विदेशी  policies  of   the  great powers  of   यूरोपीय  .
More  तत्काल  , the assassination  of  Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir  to  the  सिंहासन  of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June  1914  by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip  in  Sarajevo  triggered  a  राजनयिक  crisis when  austria-hungary  subsequently delivered an  ultimatum  to  the  Kingdom of  सर्बिया   .
अनेक  alliances formed over the  पिछला  decades  यहूद  invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers  यहूद  at war  और   ,   via  their colonies ,  the  conflict soon spread  around  the  संसार  .
On  28   जुलाई  , the Austro-Hungarians fired the  पहला  shots  of   the   युद्ध  as preparation for the  आक्रमण   of  Serbia .
While  the  Russians mobilised  ,   the   germans  invaded  न्यूट्रल  Belgium  और  Luxembourg on the  रास्ता  to France , providing a casus  belli  for  ब्रिटेन  's declaration of  युद्ध   विरूद्ध   जर्मनी  .
After the German march  on  Paris  थी  brought  to   a  halt—the  so-called  Miracle of the Marne —the Western  सामने   settled  into  a   स्थिर   बैटल  of attrition with a trench  लकीर  that changed little  जबतक   1917  .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in  इसके  invasion  of  East Prussia by the Germans .
In  नवम्बर  the Ottoman Empire joined  the  war , opening up  fronts  in  the   काकेशस  ,  मेसोपोटामिया  and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in  1915   और  Romania  in  1916  .
In Russia , the  त्सार  's government collapsed in  कूच  1917 and a subsequent revolution  in  November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers  .
After a  1918  German offensive along  the   पश्चिमी  front  ,  the Allies drove  वापस   the  Germans in  a  series of successful  offensives  and American forces began entering  the  trenches .
Germany , which had its  अपना  trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to  an  armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war  ended   in  victory for the Allies .
Events on  the  home fronts  यहूद  as tumultuous  as  on the  बैटल   fronts   ,   as  the  भागीदार  tried to mobilize their  जनशक्ति  and  आर्थिक   संसाधन  to fight a  कुल   युद्ध   .
By the end of the war , four major  इम्पीरियल  powers—the  जर्मनी  ,  रूसी  , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman  empires—ceased  to exist .
The  successor  states  of  the former  दो   खोया  a great amount of territory ,  जबकि  the  latter  two were dismantled  entirely  .
The  मैप   of  central Europe was redrawn into several smaller states .
the   लीग  of  राष्ट्र   थी   formed  in the  आशा  of preventing another  ऐसे  conflict .
the  European nationalism spawned by the  युद्ध  and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of Germany 's  शिकस्त  and  समस्याएं  with the Treaty  of   versailles  are  सहमत  to  be  factors contributing to World War  ii   .
Map of  देशों  that declared themselves  to   be  socialist states under the  marxist–leninist  or  माओवादी  definition -  कि   is  to  कह  ,  ``  Communist states  ''  -  between   1979  and 1983 .
This period marked the greatest territorial extent of Communist  राज्य  .
A communist state is  a  state  जहाँ   the  means of  उत्पादन   हैं  collectively owned by  the  society  .
It has a form  of   सरकारी  characterized  by  single-party  नियम  or dominant-party rule of a  कम्युनिस्ट  party ( referred as Dictatorship  of   the   proletariat   by  its proponents  )  and a professed allegiance  to  a Leninist or  marxist–leninist  ideology as the guiding principle  of  the state .
Technically ,  ``  communist state ''  is  a contradictio in terminis as a communist society as  पारिभाषित  by both Marxists and  anarcho-communists  is in  principle  stateless .
इससे   इस  perspective  ,   the   पद   marxist-leninist  state is more appropriate  .
Historically , a `` communist state '' referred  to   a  system where public ownership of all or most  अर्थात्   of   उत्पादन  by  the  Communist party  -run  state is  deemed  necessary to further the interests of  the  working class  ;  today , a communist  राज्य  can also  ,  for  उदाहरण  , refer  to  contemporary China and Vietnam , where a  कम्युनिस्ट  Party-run  राज्य  exists alongside a  मिश्रित   अर्थव्यवस्था  .
According to  marxist–leninists  , the state is a tool in the  हैंड्स   of  the ruling  क्लास  ,  जिससे  in a socialist society is the working  क्लास  ,  so  a socialist state is  ,   according  to  leninists   ,  a  राज्य  of the working class .
in  practice  ,  communist states  do   नहीं  actually refer to  themselves   as  such  .
They  do  this not to disguise the fact that  the  ruling party is  कम्युनिस्ट   ,  but  बल्कि  because  वे   do  not consider themselves to be a  कम्युनिस्ट  society  at   उपस्थित   .
Instead  ,  they constitutionally  पहचानो  themselves as socialist  राज्य  or workers  '   राज्य  .
The primary goal of these  राज्य   ,  which also explains their  आधिकारिक   नाम  , is to  मार्गदर्शिका   उनके  respective  देशों   in  the process of  भवन   समाजवादी  , ultimately leading to communism .
Communist states may have  अनेक  legal  राजनैतिक   पार्टियों  , but the communist party  is  usually  granted  a special or dominant  भूमिका  in government  ,   प्रायः  by  statute   or  under the constitution .
Consequently , the institutions  of   the  state  और  of the communist party become  intimately  entwined , such as  in  the  विकास   of  parallel institutions  .
In the  20th   सदी  , most communist  राज्य  adopted planned economies .
However , there  यहूद  exceptions : The Soviet  संघ  during the 1920s  और  late 1980s and  यूगोस्लाविया  after World War  ii  allowed limited  बाज़ार   और  a degree of worker self-management , while China  ,  Vietnam and Laos  introduced  far-reaching  मार्केट  reforms after the 1980s  .
In the 21st century , China and  वियतनाम   have  allowed a mixed  अर्थव्यवस्था  to develop .
The fundamental  अवधारणाओं  of communist states  प्रायः  diverge from  the   असली  socio-economic ideologies from which  वे   develop  .
as  a  परिणाम   ,   अनेक  adherents  of  these ideologies often oppose the political systems commonly  संबद्ध  with these  राज्य  .
लिये  example ,  dissenting  communists such as  trotskyists  were  प्रायः  opposed to the communist  राज्य  of the  20th  century  ,  claiming either  कि   वे  had nothing to do with ``  रियल  ''  साम्यवादी   or  that the  विचारधारा  of such states  था  reached a point of irrevocable  भ्रष्टाचार   .
माइकल  Fred  फेल्प्स  II  (  born June 30 , 1985 )  is  a retired American  तैराक   और  the most  सजा  Olympian of all time  ,  with  a   कुल   of  22 medals .
फेल्प्स   भी  holds  the  all-time records for Olympic  सुनहरा  medals ( 18 , double the second  उच्चतम   रिकार्ड   धारकों   )  , Olympic gold  medals  in  व्यक्तिगत  events ( 11 ) ,  और  Olympic medals  in  individual  कार्यक्रम  for  a  male  (  13 ) .
In winning  आठ  gold  medals  at the  2008   बीजिंग  Games  ,   फेल्प्स  took  the  record for the most first-place finishes at any  सिंगल   ओलम्पिक   खेल   .
Five of those  victories   यहूद   in  individual  कार्यक्रम  , tying the single Games record  .
In  the  2012 Summer  ओलंपिक  in London , Phelps won four  golds   और  two silver medals , making him the most  कामयाब  athlete of the  खेल  for the third Olympics in  a  row  .
Phelps is the long course  संसार   recordholder   in  the 100-meter butterfly  ,  200-meter butterfly  और  400-meter individual medley as  खूब  as the former  long   कोर्स  world recordholder in the  200-meter  freestyle and 200-meter individual medley .
he  has  जीती   a  total of  71  medals in  प्रमुख  international long-course competition , 57 gold , 11 silver ,  और  three bronze spanning the Olympics  ,  the World , and the Pan  प्रशांत  Championships .
Phelps 's international titles and record-breaking performances have  अर्जित  him the World  तैराक  of the Year  पुरस्कार  seven times and American Swimmer of the Year Award nine times  as  well as  the   फिना   तैराक   of  the Year  पुरस्कार   in  2012  .
His  unprecedented   ओलम्पिक   कामयाबी  in 2008 earned  फेल्प्स   खेल  Illustrated magazine 's Sportsman of  the  Year award .
After  the   2008  Summer  ओलंपिक  ,  फेल्प्स  started  the  Michael Phelps  न्यास  , which focuses on growing the  खेल  of  तैराकी  and promoting healthier lifestyles .
he  expects to do  further  work with his foundation after the  2012  Olympics  ,  which  he  has  कहा  will be his last .
लेनोवो  Group Limited (  )   is  a Chinese multinational computer hardware and  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  company  साथ   इसके   मुख्यालय   in  Beijing , China and Morrisville , North Carolina and  इसके   पंजीकृत   दफ्तर  in  हांग   काँग  ,  चीन   .
इसके  products  शामिल   निजी  computers  ,  tablet  कंप्यूटर  , mobile  फोन  , workstations , servers  ,  electronic storage devices  ,  IT management  तन्त्र  and  smart  televisions .
लेनोवो  is the world  's  second-largest PC  विक्रेता   by   2012  unit sales .
It markets the ThinkPad line  of  notebook  कंप्यूटर  and  the  ThinkCentre line of desktops  .
Lenovo has  परिचालन  in more than 60  देशों  and sells its  उत्पाद  in  around  160 countries  .
Lenovo was founded in Beijing  in  1984 and incorporated in Hong  काँग  in 1988 under  इसके  previous name  ,  Legend .
Lenovo  is  listed on  the  Hong  काँग   भण्डार  Exchange  और  is  a  constituent  of  the  हैंग  Seng  china-affiliated  Corporations Index .
Slug is a common name  लिये   an  apparently  shell-less  terrestrial gastropod mollusk .
The word `` slug ''  is  also often  प्रयुक्त  as  भाग  of the  आम   नाम  of any gastropod  mollusc  that has no  शेल  ,  रै  a very reduced shell , or has  तभी  a small internal shell .
( This is in contrast to the  आम  name ``  घोंघा  ``  ,  which is applied to gastropods  कि  have a  नतीजे  shell that is large  पर्याप्त   कि  the soft parts  of  the  एनिमल  can retract  fully  into  it   .  )
Slugs exist on  जमीन  and in the sea  ,  and there  is  even one  genus  of freshwater slugs ,  acochlidium  .
the  unadorned word `` slug ''  is  however applied  primarily  to land slugs  ,  whereas  slugs  from  the   समुद्र   or   इससे   freshwater  are  प्रायः   referred  to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs  ''  .
जमीन  gastropods with a shell  कि   is   नहीं  quite vestigial ,  लकिन  is too  छोटी   to   retract  into ( like  अनेक  in the family Urocyclidae ) , are known as semislugs .
The various taxonomic families  of   slugs   रूप   भाग  of several  काफी  different evolutionary lineages which also include  घोंघे  .
Thus  ,  for example , the various families  of   जमीन  slugs are not very  closely  related to  एक  another  ,  despite a  सतही  similarity in the overall body form  .
The shell-less condition has  arisen  many times independently  दौरान  the  विकासवादी   पास्ट  ,  और  thus the category  ``  slug ''  is  emphatically a  polyphyletic   एक   .
Slugs , like  सब  other gastropods  ,  undergo  torsion   (  a 180° twisting of the internal organs ) during development  .
Internally  ,  slug anatomy  clearly  shows the  प्रभाव   of  this rotation , but externally  the   लाशें  of land  slugs   appear  to  be  more or less  सममित  , except  लिये  the positioning of the pneumostome  ,   जिससे  is  on  one side of the animal  ,  normally the  सही  hand side .
The soft ,  slimy  bodies of  slugs   हैं  prone to desiccation  ,  so land-living  slugs  are confined to moist environments  और   जरूर  retreat  to  damp hiding  स्थान  when the weather  is  dry .
the  subsequent information in this article applies to land slugs .
is  a  लैटिन   शब्द  that  अर्थात्  ``  यूँ  ''  or  ,  in  writing  ,  ``  it  was thus in the source material ''  .
sic  may also refer to:
Sic , Cluj  ,  a  कम्यून  in Romania
sic  , the  क्षेत्रीय   कोड  for Sicily
Sic (  रव  artist ) , styled as [ sic ] , stage  नाम   of   जेनिफर  Morris ,  a   कनाडाई  noise  कलाकार
Sic ( band  )  is a  आधुनिक  Hardcore/Thrash metal band from  torshavn  , the capital of  the   फरो  Islands
`` (  sic   )  ''  ,   a   सोंग  by American band Slipknot on  the   एल्बम  Slipknot
SIC , the initial of Marco  simoncelli  .
SIC as  an   एक्रोनिम  may stand for:
SiC , Silicon  कार्बाइड  , a  semiconducting   सामग्री  , also used to  मेक   धातुकर्म  tools
sic  ( cyclecar )  (   società  Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification , a 20th-century U.S. system  लिये  classifying industries
International  मानक  Industrial  वर्गीकरण  a UN system for  आर्थिक   क्रियाएँ
Shetland Islands  परिषद
the  स्विस   interbank  Clearing system
सैन  Isidro Club  ,  an Argentine rugby  संघ  club
खड़ा  Interpretation Committee ,  a  committee dedicated  to   the  interpretation  of  international accounting standards IFRS
schwarz  information  मानदंड  in  the  field of statistics
second-in-command  in the  फ़ील्ड   of  aviation
Sistema Interconectado Central power  ग्रिड   in   चिली
Sociedade Independente de Comunicação (  sic  ) , a television channel  in  Portugal
समुद्र  Isle City ,  नई   जर्सी   ,  a coastal town in the United States
Segmented Integer Counter mode , a mode of operation in cryptography
sepang  International  सर्किट  , a high-end racetrack that hosts  the  Malaysian  गोलाकार  of Formula  1
Shanghai International  सर्किट   ,  a motor racing  स्थान   in  Shanghai  ,  China
Simplified instructional computer  ,  a hypothetical computer used in  प्रणालियों  programming
SIC (  बेटे  Idées Couleurs )  ,  an early twentieth-century art magazine produced by French author Pierre  albert-birot
southeastern   इलिनोइस   कॉलेज  , a two year Junior College in  harrisburg  , Illinois , United States
विशिष्ट  inductive  क्षमता   ,  abbreviated to SIC  ,  which is more  commonly  known as the  सापेक्ष  permittivity  or   the  dielectric constant
St Ignatius '  कॉलेज  , Riverview , a Jesuit  स्कूल  in  सिडनी   ,  Australia
Imperial Standard  of  Napoleon  i
Napoleon Bonaparte ( ,  ;  15 August  1769  – 5 May 1821 ) was a  फ्रेंच   सैन्य   और  political leader  जो  rose to prominence during the latter stages of the  फ्रेंच  Revolution and its associated wars  in  Europe .
As Napoleon I ,  he   थी  Emperor of  the   फ्रेंच  from 1804 to 1815 .
उसके  legal  सुधार  , the Napoleonic  कोड   ,  has  महरूम  a major influence  on  many civil law jurisdictions  विश्वव्यापी  , but he is  बेहतरीन  remembered for his role in the wars  led   विरूद्ध  France by a series of coalitions ,  the  so-called Napoleonic Wars .
He  स्थापित   आधिपत्य   over  most of continental Europe and sought to spread the  आदर्शों  of the  फ्रेंच   क्रान्ति  , while  consolidating   an  imperial monarchy which restored  पहलुओं  of the deposed Ancien Régime .
Due to  उसके  success in  ये   युद्धों   ,  often  विरूद्ध  numerically  श्रेष्ठ  enemies , he is  generally  regarded as one  of   the  greatest military commanders of all time  ,  and his campaigns are  पढ़ाई   at   सैन्य  academies worldwide .
नेपोलियन   थी   born   at  Ajaccio  in  Corsica in  a   परिवार   of   प्रतिष्ठित  Italian ancestry  जिससे  had  settled  Corsica in  the  16th century .
He trained as  an  artillery officer  in  mainland  फ़्रांस   .
He  रोज़   to  prominence under the  फ्रेंच  First Republic and  led   कामयाब   अभियान  against the  पहला  and Second Coalitions arrayed  विरूद्ध   फ़्रांस  .
he  led a successful  आक्रमण  of  the  Italian peninsula .
in   1799  , he  मंचन  a  तख्तापलट  d'état and installed himself as First Consul ; five years later the French Senate  proclaimed  him emperor  ,  following a  plebiscite  in  उसके  favour .
In the  पहला  decade of the  19th  century , the French Empire under Napoleon engaged in a  श्रेणी   of  conflicts—the Napoleonic  युद्धों   —that   शामिल  every major  यूरोपीय  power .
After  a  streak of  victories   ,  France secured a  प्रबल  position in  महाद्वीपीय  Europe , and Napoleon maintained  the   फ्रेंच  sphere  of   influence  through the formation of extensive  alliances  and the appointment of friends  और   परिवार   सदस्यों  to rule other European countries as French client states .
The Peninsular War and  1812  French invasion of Russia  चिह्नित  turning points  in  Napoleon 's  सौभाग्य  .
His Grande Armée was badly  क्षतिग्रस्त   in   the  campaign and  never  fully recovered  .
in  1813  ,  the  छठे  Coalition defeated his forces  at  Leipzig ; the following year the Coalition invaded France  ,  forced Napoleon to abdicate  और   exiled  him  to  the island  of  Elba .
Less than a  साल  later , he  फरार   एल्बा   और  returned to power  ,  but  थी  defeated at the  बैटल   of  Waterloo in  जून   1815   .
नेपोलियन  spent the last  छह  years of his life in  कारावास  by  the  British on the  द्वीप   of  Saint Helena .
An  पोस्टमार्टम  concluded he died of stomach cancer  ,  but  वहीँ  has been some debate  परिचय  the cause of his  मौत   ,  as some  विद्वानों  have speculated that  he   थी  a  शिकार  of arsenic poisoning .
This is  a  chronological listing of the  संयुक्त   राज्य   सीनेटरों   इससे  Pennsylvania .
United States Senators  हैं  popularly elected , for a six-year term  ,   शुरूआत  January  3  .
चुनावों  are held the  पहला   मंगलवार  after November 1 .
Before 1914  ,   वे  were chosen  by  the  पेन्सिलवेनिया  General Assembly  ,   और   पहले   1935   ,   उनके   शर्तें  began March 4  .
The South Africa national rugby union team ( known as the Springboks  )   represents  South  अफ़्रीकी  in rugby union .
They compete in the annual Rugby Championship , along  साथ   southern-hemisphere  counterparts  अर्जेंटीना  ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and New Zealand .
They have won this  चैंपियनशिप  on three occasions in sixteen  सालो  .
They are currently ranked second in the world by the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Rugby Board ,  और  were named  2008  World Team of  the  Year at the Laureus World Sports Awards .
Although  दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी   थी   इंस्ट्रूमेंटल  in the  सृष्टि  of  the   रग्बी  World Cup competition , the Springboks  किया  not compete in the first two World  cups   in  1987 and 1991  क्युकी  of  anti-apartheid  sporting boycotts of South  अफ़्रीकी  .
the   टोली   बना  its World  कप   डेब्यू  in 1995 , when the  newly   लोकतांत्रिक   दक्षिण  Africa hosted  the  tournament .
The  springboks  then defeated the  सब  Blacks 15–12  in   the  final  ,  which is now  remembered  as one  of  the greatest moments in South Africa 's sporting history , and a  watershed  moment  in  the  post-apartheid  nation-building  प्रक्रम  .
South Africa  regained  their title as champions 12 years later ,  जब  they  पराजित  England  15–6  in the 2007 final .
As a result  of  the 2007 World  कप  tournament the  springboks  were promoted  to   पहला  place  in   the   आईआरबी  World Rankings , a position they held  जबतक  July the following year  जब  New Zealand regained the  शीर्ष  spot .
The Springboks  खेल  in green  और   सुनहरा   jerseys  ,  और  their emblems are the Springbok and the Protea  .
The side has been playing  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   रग्बी  since  1891  , when a  अंग्रेजों  Isles side  toured  the nation , playing South Africa  in  their  पहला  Test on  30   जुलाई   .
South Africa was  coached  by  जेक  White , who led the Boks to the  2007  World Cup title , announcing his resignation effectively  इससे  the end  of  2007 .
His replacement  's  (  पीटर  de Villiers  )  contract  समाप्त   in   2011  , following a 11–9  शिकस्त   to  Australia  in  the Rugby World Cup quarter-final , who then stated he  होता  not be  हस्ताक्षर  a  नई  deal .
The previous captain was John Smit , who before he retired  in  2011 played  वेश्या   लिये  most of his career  ,   हालांकि  he has also been a prop , mainly  in   2008   और  2009 .
Due to Smit being  अनुपलब्ध  for the November 2010  परीक्षण  after surgery  ,  lock  विक्टर  Matfield took Smit 's place as  कप्तान  for that  दौरे  .
The current captain is  जां  de Villiers .
The Battle of Gettysburg ( ,  साथ  an sound  )  , was fought July  1–3  , 1863 , in  और  around the town of Gettysburg , Pennsylvania .
It was the battle with  the  largest number  of  casualties  in   the   अमरीकी  Civil War and  is  often described as the war  's  turning  पाइंट  .
Union  maj.  Gen. George Gordon  meade   's   फौज   of   the  Potomac defeated attacks by Confederate  gen.  Robert E. Lee 's Army of  उत्तरी  Virginia  ,  ending Lee 's  आक्रमण   of  the North .
After  उसके  success  at  Chancellorsville  in  Virginia in May 1863 ,  ली  led his army  through  the Shenandoah Valley to begin his second invasion of  the  North—the Gettysburg Campaign  .
With his army in high spirits  ,  Lee intended to shift the focus of the summer campaign from  war-ravaged  northern  वर्जिनिया   और  hoped  to  influence  उत्तरी   राजनेता  to  दे   up  their prosecution of  the   युद्ध   by  penetrating  as   दूर  as Harrisburg , Pennsylvania ,  or  even Philadelphia .
prodded  by  अध्यक्ष  Abraham Lincoln , Maj. Gen. Joseph  वेश्या   स्थानांतरित  his army in pursuit , but was relieved just  तीन  days  पहले  the battle and replaced by Meade  .
Elements of the  दो  armies initially collided at Gettysburg on  जुलाई  1  ,  1863 , as  ली  urgently concentrated his  शक्तियां  there  ,  his objective being to  engage  the Union  फौज   और  destroy it .
Low ridges to the northwest of  कस्बा  were defended initially by a Union cavalry division under  ब्रिगेडियर  . Gen.  जॉन  Buford , and  जल्द   reinforced  with two  corps  of  संघ  infantry .
However  ,  two  विशाल  Confederate corps assaulted  उन्हें  from the northwest  और  north  ,  collapsing the hastily  विकसित   संघ   लाइनों  , sending the  defenders  retreating through the streets of town  to  the hills just to  the  south  .
On  the  second  दिन   of   बैटल  , most of both armies had assembled .
The  संघ   लकीर   थी   रखी  out in a  रक्षात्मक  formation  resembling  a  fishhook   .
In the late afternoon of July 2  ,  Lee launched a heavy  उत्पीड़न  on the  संघ  left flank ,  और  fierce  लड़   raged  at Little Round Top , the Wheatfield , Devil 's  डेन  , and  the   आड़ू  Orchard .
On  the  Union right ,  demonstrations  escalated  into   full-scale  assaults  on  Culp 's  हिल  and Cemetery Hill .
All across  the  battlefield ,  despite   significant   नुकसान  ,  the  Union  defenders  held their lines .
On the  तीसरा   दिन   of  battle , July 3 , fighting resumed  on   culp  's  हिल   ,  and cavalry battles raged to the east and  दक्षिण  ,  लकिन   the  main  इवेंट   थी   a  dramatic infantry  उत्पीड़न   by   12,500  Confederates against the center of  the  Union line on Cemetery Ridge , known as Pickett 's Charge .
the  charge was repulsed by Union rifle  और  artillery  आग  , at great  नुकसान  to the Confederate army .
Lee led his army on a torturous retreat back to Virginia .
Between 46,000 and 51,000 soldiers from  दोनो   सेना  were  हताहत  in  the  three-day battle  .
That November , President Lincoln  प्रयुक्त   the  dedication  रस्म   लिये   the  Gettysburg  नेशनल  Cemetery to honor the fallen Union  सैनिको  and redefine the  purpose  of the war  in  his historic  gettysburg  Address .
an   अकादमिक  discipline  ,  or field of study  ,  is  a  branch of knowledge  कि  is taught and  शोधकार्य  at the college  or   विश्वविद्यालयों  level  .
Disciplines are defined ( in  भाग  ) ,  और  recognized by the  अकादमिक  journals in which  शोध  is  प्रकाशित  ,  और   the  learned societies  और  academic departments  or  faculties  to  which  उनके  practitioners belong .
However , there exists no  औपचारिक   मापदण्ड  for when educational programs  और  scholarly journals  रूप   an   अकादमिक  discipline .
a  huge difference exists  between  ,  on  the  एक  hand ,  खूब   स्थापित  disciplines  कि   मौजूद  in  लगभग  all universities  सब  over the world  ,  have a  long  history  ,  and have a well  स्थापित   नियत  of journals and  सम्मेलनों   ,  and , on  the  other hand , suggestions for new  फ़ील्ड   समर्थित   तभी  by few universities and publications .
Fields of  पढ़ाई   प्रायः  have  अनेक  sub-disciplines or branches  ,   और  the  distinguishing  lines between these are often both arbitrary  और   अस्पष्ट  .
PHP  is   a  server-side  एनक्रिप्शन  language designed  लिये  web  विकास  but also used as a general-purpose programming language .
PHP is now  संस्थापित  on  अधिक  than 244 million websites  और   2.1  million web  सर्वर  .
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995 , the reference implementation  of  PHP is now produced by The PHP Group .
While PHP originally stood  लिये  Personal Home  पेज  , it now  स्टैंड  for PHP  :  Hypertext  preprocessor  , a  recursive  acronym .
पीएचपी  code is interpreted by  a  web server with a PHP  प्रोसेसर   मोड्यूल  which  generates  the resulting web  पेज  : PHP commands can be embedded directly  into   an   एचटीएमएल   सोर्स   दस्तावेज़  rather than calling an external file to process data .
It has  भी  evolved to include a  command-line   इंटरफ़ेस  capability and  can  be  प्रयुक्त   in   स्टैंडअलोन   आलेखीय  applications  .
PHP  is   फ़्री  software released under the PHP License , which is  असंगत  with the GNU General Public  अनुज्ञा  ( GPL  )  due to restrictions on the usage of the term PHP  .
PHP can  be   तैनात  on  सबसे  web  सर्वर  and also as a  स्टैंडअलोन   शेल   on  almost every  ऑपरेटिंग   प्रणाली   और  platform , free of charge .
John  fitzgerald   ``  Jack ''  कैनेडी  ( May  29  , 1917 – November 22 , 1963 ) , often referred  to  by his  आद्याक्षर  JFK , was  the  35th  अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  , serving from  1961  until his death in 1963  .
बाद  military service as commander of the  मोटर  Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 during World  युद्ध  II in the South Pacific , Kennedy represented  मैसाचुसेट्स   '   11th  congressional district  in  the U.S. House  of  Representatives from  1947  to 1953 as a  डेमोक्रेट   .
Thereafter  ,   he  served in the U.S. Senate  इससे  1953 until 1960 .
Kennedy defeated  वाइस  President and  रिपब्लिकन   प्रत्याशी  Richard  निक्सन  in  the  1960  u.S.  presidential  चुनाव  .
at  43 years of  आयु  , he is  the  youngest to have been  निर्वाचित  to the office , the second-youngest President  (  after Theodore Roosevelt ) , and the first person born in  the  20th  सदी  to  serve  as president  .
a   कैथोलिक  , Kennedy  is  the only  non-   प्रोटोस्टेंट   अध्यक्ष   ,  and is the only  अध्यक्ष  to have won a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during  उसके   प्रेसिडेंसी  included  the  Bay of Pigs Invasion , the Cuban Missile Crisis  ,  the building of the  बर्लिन  Wall , the Space Race  ,  the  african-american  Civil  अधिकारों   गति   ,   और  early stages of the  वियतनाम  War  .
Therein , Kennedy increased  the  number of  सैन्य  advisers , special operation forces , and  helicopters  in an effort  to  curb the spread of communism in South East Asia .
the  Kennedy administration adopted  the  policy of the  रणनीतिक  Hamlet Program which  थी   implemented   by  the  दक्षिण  Vietnamese  सरकारी  .
It involved certain forced relocation , village internment , and segregation of  ग्रामीण  South  वियतनामी  from the northern  और  southern communist insurgents  .
कैनेडी   थी  assassinated on November  22  ,  1963  in Dallas , Texas  .
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime  ,  but  he  was  शॉट  and killed  by   जोकर  Ruby two days later ,  पहले  a trial could take  प्लेस   .
The FBI and the Warren Commission  officially  concluded that Oswald  थी   the  lone assassin  .
However ,  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  House Select Committee on  assassinations  ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations  यहूद  flawed  और  that  कैनेडी   थी  probably assassinated  as  the  परिणाम  of a  षड्यंत्र  .
However , ABC News  in  their investigation , The Kennedy Assassination  :  Beyond Conspiracy  ,  confirmed the  निष्कर्षों   of  the  वारेन  Commission ; having concluded  ओसवाल्ड   acted   अलोन  .
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter  bomber  program led to a  congressional   छानबीन  that lasted from 1963 to 1970  .
Since the 1960s  सूचना  concerning Kennedy  's  private  जीवन  has  आइये  to light .
विवरण  of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled  have  become better known , especially since the 1990s .
Although initially  रखा  secret from  the  general public  ,  reports of  कैनेडी   's   philandering  have garnered much  दबायें   .
Kennedy  बाँधने   अत्यधिक  in public opinion ratings  of   u.S.   राष्ट्रपतियों   .
`` Stand by Me ''  is  a song originally  performed  by Ben E. King  और  written by King ,  जेरी  Leiber  ,  and  माइक  Stoller  ,  inspired by the  आध्यात्मिक   ``  Lord Stand  by   me   ,  '' plus two lines rooted in  ज़बूर  46:2–3  .
There have  महरूम  over 400 recorded  संस्करण  of the song  .
a  political cartoon  इससे  an 1894 Puck  पत्रिका  by illustrator S.D . Ehrhart , shows a  फार्म  woman  labeled   ``   लोकतांत्रिक  Party  ''  sheltering from a tornado  of  political change  .
A metaphor is a figure of speech that describes  a  subject by asserting that  it   is  , on  कुछ  point  of   तुलना   ,  the  वही   as  another otherwise unrelated  ऑब्जेक्ट  .
Metaphor is a  प्रकार  of  सादृश्य  and  is  closely related to other rhetorical  आंकड़े   of  speech that achieve  उनके  effects via association , comparison or resemblance including allegory , hyperbole , and simile .
In  simpler  terms ,  a  metaphor compares  दो  objects or things  बगैर  using the words `` like '' or ``  as  '' .
One of the  सबसे   prominent  examples  of   a  metaphor in English  साहित्य  is the All  the   संसार   's   a  stage monologue  इससे  As  तुम   जैसे   it  :
All  the   संसार  's a stage,
And all  the   मेन  and women merely players ;
They have their exits  और   उनके  entrances ; —  विलियम   शेक्सपियर  , As You Like It , 2/7
इस   उद्धरण  is a  रूपक   क्युकी  the  संसार   is  not literally a  स्टेज   .
By figuratively  asserting   कि   the  world  is   a  stage , Shakespeare uses the points of comparison between the  संसार  and  a  stage to convey an understanding  परिचय   the   यांत्रिकी  of the world and the lives  of  the  लोगों   भीतर   it  .
Mount Fuji  ,   इससे  the Thirty-six Views of  माउंट   फुजी  , color  woodcut   by   katsushika  Hokusai
Rembrandt  वैन  Rijn ,  self-portrait  , etching , c.1630
फ्रांसिस्को   गोया   ,  There is No One  to  Help Them  ,   आपदाओं   of  War series  ,  aquatint c.1810
Felix Vallotton  ,  La raison probante ( The Cogent  कारण   )  ,  woodcut  from the series  intimités   ,  1898
printmaking  is  the   प्रक्रम  of  बनाना   artworks  by  मुद्रण  ,  सामान्यतः  on paper .
Printmaking  सामान्यतः  covers only the process of  बनाना  prints with  an  element of originality ,  बल्कि  than  बस  being  a  photographic reproduction of  a  painting  .
Except  in   the  case of monotyping , the process is capable  of  producing  multiples   of  the same  टुकड़ा   ,  which  is   पुकारा  a  छपाई  .
Each  छपाई  produced is not  माना  a ``  नक़ल  '' but rather is considered an  ``  original ''  .
This is  क्युकी   typically  each print varies to an extent  due  to variables  मूलभूत  to the printmaking process  ,  and  भी   क्युकी  the  imagery  of a print  is   typically  not  बस  a reproduction of another work  लकिन  rather is often a unique  चित्र  designed from the start to be  expressed   in  a particular printmaking technique .
A print may be known  as  an impression .
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is not  चुनी   तभी  for  इसके  ability to  उपज  multiple  impressions  ,  लकिन  rather  लिये  the unique  qualities  that each of the printmaking processes lends itself to .
prints  are  निर्मित  by transferring  स्याही   इससे   a   मेट्रिक्स   or  through a  prepared  screen to a sheet  of  paper or  अन्य  material  .
आम  types of matrices include  :  metal  प्लेटों  , usually  तांबे  or zinc , or  पॉलिमर  plates for  नक्काशी  or etching  ;   स्टोन  , aluminum  ,  or  पॉलिमर   लिये  lithography ; blocks of  लकडी  for woodcuts and wood engravings ;  और  linoleum for linocuts .
Screens  बना  of silk or synthetic fabrics are used for the screenprinting process .
अन्य  types of matrix  substrates  and related processes  हैं  discussed below .
अनेक   impressions  printed  इससे  the same  मेट्रिक्स  form  an  edition .
चूंकि  the  लेट  19th century ,  कलाकारों  have  generally  signed individual impressions from an edition  और  often number  the   impressions  to form a  सीमित  edition .
Prints may also be printed in book form  ,  such as  illustrated  books  or   कलाकार   's  books .
il  Divo is an English multinational  operatic   पॉप  vocal group  निर्मित   by  music manager ,  कार्यपालिका   ,  and reality TV  स्टार   साइमन  Cowell .
Formed in the United Kingdom , they  हैं  also signed to Cowell 's record  लेबल  , Syco Music  .
il  Divo is  a  group of four male singers : French pop singer Sébastien Izambard ,  स्पेनी  baritone Carlos Marín , American  टेनर  David Miller , and Swiss tenor Urs Bühler .
to  date , they  have  sold more  than   26  million  एल्बम   विश्वव्यापी  .
Su-15  ,  one of the principal Soviet  एयर   रक्षा  interceptors  in   the  1970s and  1980s
An  interceptor  aircraft ( or  बस   interceptor  ) is a type of  सेनानी  aircraft designed specifically to prevent missions of enemy aircraft , particularly bombers and  reconnaissance   वायुयान  , and destroy  उन्हें  , relying usually on great speed and powerful armament .
होने   प्रयुक्त   चूंकि  the First  संसार   युद्ध  ,  बाद  the late  1960s  , interceptors became less important due to shifting  इससे  bombers to  इंटरकांटिनेंटल  ballistic  मिसाइलें   (   icbms   )  for nuclear warfare  .
a  Vietnamese American  (  )  is  an American of  वियतनामी   descent  .
वे  make  up  about half of  सब  overseas Vietnamese ( Người  việt  Hải Ngoại )  और  are the fourth-largest Asian American group .
Mass Vietnamese  आव्रजन   to   the  United States started  बाद  1975 , after the end of the Vietnam War .
Early immigrants were refugee  नाव  people fleeing persecution  or  poverty  .
मजबूर  to flee from their homeland  और  often thrust into poor  शहरी  neighborhoods , these newcomers have  nevertheless  managed  to  establish strong communities  in   a  short  राशि   of  time  .
More  than  sixty percent of Vietnamese Americans reside  in   the  states of California ,  टेक्सास  ,  वॉशिंगटन  , Florida  ,  and Virginia .
सामने  page  of   the  U.S.  हथियारबंद  Forces newspaper , Stars  और  Stripes  ,   2  May 1945
एडोल्फ   हिटलर  committed suicide  by  gunshot on 30 April 1945  in   उसके  Führerbunker in  बर्लिन  .
His wife Eva (  née  Braun ) committed suicide with him  by   ingesting  cyanide  .
कि   दोपहर   ,  in accordance  साथ  Hitler 's prior instructions , their  remains  were  carried  up the stairs through the bunker 's  आपात  exit , doused in petrol and set alight in  the  Reich  chancellery  garden outside the bunker .
The Soviet archives  रिकार्ड  that  उनके  burnt  remains  were recovered and  interred  in successive locations until 1970 when  वे   यहूद   again  exhumed , cremated and the ashes scattered  .
Accounts  differ  as to the  कारण  of  मौत  ; one that he  died   by  poison only  और  another that he  died   by  a self-inflicted  gunshot  , while  biting  down on a cyanide capsule .
Contemporary historians have  अस्वीकृत  these accounts as  होने  either Soviet propaganda or an attempted compromise in order to reconcile the different  conclusions  .
एक  eye-witness  अंकित  that the body showed signs of having been shot through the mouth  ,  but  इस  has been proven unlikely .
There  is  also  विवाद   regarding  the authenticity  of  skull  और  jaw fragments which  यहूद  recovered .
in  2009 ,  डीएनए   परीक्षण  were performed on a  कपाल  Soviet  officials  had long  believed   to   be  Hitler 's  .
The  परीक्षण  revealed that the skull was actually that of a woman  कम  than  40   सालो   बूढ़ा   .
Location of  मिसौरी
The alcohol  कानून  of Missouri  हैं  among  the  least restrictive and most  lax   और  permissive  in  the  संयुक्त  States .
मिसौरी  is known throughout the  मिडवेस्ट  for its largely laissez-faire  दृष्टिकोण  to alcohol regulation , in sharp contrast to the  बहुत  strict alcohol laws of some of  इसके   पड़ोसी  , like Kansas and Oklahoma .
necrotizing   fasciitis   (   or  ) or NF ,  commonly  known as flesh-eating disease or  flesh-eating   जीवाणु   सिंड्रोम   ,   is  a rare  संक्रमण  of  the  deeper layers of skin and subcutaneous tissues  ,  easily  spreading  across the fascial  प्लेन   भीतर  the  subcutaneous  tissue .
Necrotizing fasciitis  is   जल्दी  progressing , having greater risk of developing in  the  immunocompromised due to  शर्तें  like diabetes  ,  cancer , etc .
It is  a  severe disease of sudden onset  और  is  प्रायः  treated  तत्काल  with  ऊँची  doses of  intravenous  antibiotics .
प्रकार  I  describes  a  polymicrobial  infection ,  whereas  Type  ii  describes  a  monomicrobial infection  .
Many types of  जीवाणु   can  cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g. , Group A streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes )  ,   staphylococcus  aureus , Clostridium  perfringens   ,  Bacteroides fragilis  ,   aeromonas  hydrophila ) .
Such infections  हैं  more  संभावित  to occur in people with compromised immune systems  .
historically  , Group  a  streptococcus made up most cases of Type II infections .
however  , since as early as 2001 , another  गंभीर   रूप   of   monomicrobial   necrotizing   fasciitis  has  महरूम   observed   साथ  increasing frequency ,  caused  by  methicillin-resistant   staphylococcus  aureus ( MRSA  )  .
कुछ   प्रकाशित  case reports  have   implied   a  possible link between use  of   non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory  दवाएँ   और  NF , though  the  evidence  of  the link  थी  said to be weak because of a small  क्रमांक  of case patients and it  थी  unclear whether the drugs  बस  masked the symptoms of  a  secondary infection  or  were  a   कारण  per se  .
World War II  (  WWII or WW2 )  ,   भी  known  as  the Second World War  ,  was  a  global  युद्ध   कि  lasted from 1939 to 1945  .
It involved the  विशाल  majority  of  the  संसार   's  nations —including  सब  of the great  शक्तियां  —eventually forming two opposing military  alliances  : the Allies and the Axis .
It was  the  most widespread war in  इतिहास   ,  with more than 100 million people  सेवारत  in  सैन्य  units from over 30  अलग  countries  .
In  a  state  of  ``  कुल  war `` , the  प्रमुख  participants placed  उनके  entire economic , industrial  ,  and scientific  सामर्थ्य  at the service of the  युद्ध   प्रयत्न  ,  erasing  the distinction  between  civilian  और   सैन्य  resources  .
Marked by mass deaths  of   नागरिकों  , including the Holocaust and the only  उपयोग  of nuclear weapons in warfare , it resulted in 50 million to  over   75  million fatalities .
These deaths make World War II by far  the  deadliest conflict in  इंसान   इतिहास   .
the   साम्राज्य   of   जापानी  aimed to dominate East  एशिया   और  was already at war with the Republic  of  China in 1937 , but the world war is  generally  said to have begun on 1  सितंबर  1939 with the invasion of Poland by  जर्मनी  and  subsequent  declarations of  युद्ध   on  Germany by France  और  Britain .
From late 1939 to early 1941 , in  a  series of campaigns and treaties ,  जर्मनी  formed the  अक्ष  alliance  साथ  Italy ,  conquering   or  subduing  much  of  महाद्वीपीय  Europe .
following  the Molotov–Ribbentrop  अनुबंध  , Germany and the Soviet  संघ  partitioned and  annexed  territories  between  themselves of their  यूरोपीय  neighbours  ,  including  कैंडल  .
The United Kingdom and  the  other members of  the  British  राष्ट्रमंडल  were the only  प्रमुख  Allied forces continuing the fight against the  अक्ष   ,  with battles taking  प्लेस   in  North Africa as  खूब  as the long-running  बैटल   of  the Atlantic .
In  जून  1941 ,  the  European  अक्ष  launched  an  invasion of the  सोवियत  Union , giving a  प्रारंभ  to the  largest   जमीन   थिएटर  of war in history , which  tied   bas  the major  भाग  of the Axis ' military forces for the rest  of  the war .
in  December 1941  ,  Japan  joined  the Axis , attacked the United  राज्य  and European territories in the Pacific Ocean , and quickly  conquered  much of the  पश्चिमी   प्रशांत  .
The Axis advance  थी  stopped  in   1942  ,  बाद   जापानी  lost a series of naval  लड़ाइयों  and European Axis  सैनिकों  were defeated  in  North Africa and  ,  decisively , at  stalingrad  .
in  1943  ,   साथ   a  series of  जर्मनी  defeats  in  Eastern  यूरोपीय   ,  the  अलाइड   आक्रमण   of  Italy  ,   और  American victories in the Pacific  ,  the Axis lost the  पहल   और   undertook   रणनीतिक  retreat on all  fronts  .
In 1944 , the Western  allies  invaded France , while the Soviet  संघ  regained  सब  of its territorial  नुकसान  and  invaded   जर्मनी  and its  allies  .
During 1944 and 1945 the United States defeated the Japanese  नेवी  and captured key Western Pacific islands .
The  युद्ध  in  यूरोपीय  ended  साथ  the capture of  बर्लिन  by Soviet  और  Polish troops and  the  subsequent  जर्मनी  unconditional surrender on 8 May  1945  .
following  the Potsdam  घोषणा  by the Allies on 26  जुलाई  1945 , the United States dropped atomic bombs  on  the Japanese cities  of  Hiroshima  on   6  August , and Nagasaki on 9 August .
With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago  निकट  ,  और  the Soviet  संघ   having  declared war on  जापानी  by invading Manchuria ,  जापानी   surrendered   on  15 August  1945  , ending  the  war in  एशिया  and cementing  the  total  विजय  of the Allies over  the  Axis  .
World War II altered the  राजनैतिक  alignment and social structure  of  the world  .
The United Nations ( UN ) was  स्थापित   to   फोस्टर  international cooperation  और  prevent future conflicts  .
The great powers that were the  victors  of the  war—the   संयुक्त  States  ,  the  सोवियत  Union ,  चीन  , the  संयुक्त  Kingdom ,  और  France—became the permanent members of  the  United Nations Security Council .
The Soviet  संघ  and  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  emerged as rival superpowers ,  सेटिंग   the  stage for the Cold  युद्ध  ,  जिससे  lasted for the  अगला   46  years .
Meanwhile ,  the  influence of  यूरोपीय  great  शक्तियां   प्रारंभ  to decline , while the decolonisation of  एशिया   और   अफ़्रीकी   began  .
Most countries whose  उद्योग   था   महरूम  damaged  स्थानांतरित  towards economic recovery  .
Political integration , especially in  यूरोपीय   ,   उभरा  as  an  effort  to   stabilise  postwar relations  और  fight  अधिक  effectively  in   the  Cold War .
A  सीमित  liability company ( LLC  )  is a flexible form of enterprise that blends elements  of  partnership and corporate structures  .
Note than  an  LLC  is  not a  निगम   ,   और  calling an LLC a  निगम  is technically incorrect .
An  llc  is  a  legal form of company that  provides  limited liability to  इसके  owners in  the   विशाल  majority of United States jurisdictions .
LLCs do not  need  to be organized for  लाभ  .
पाँच   k-cups
The inside of  a  used K-Cup  ,  with the top foil  और  the used coffee grounds removed  .
इस  shows the filter inside the K-Cup .
k-cup  portion packs  हैं  used  साथ  Keurig or other single cup brewing systems to brew a cup  of   कॉफी  , tea  ,  or hot  चॉकलेट   .
प्रत्येक  K-Cup is a  प्लास्टिक  container with  a  coffee filter inside .
Ground coffee beans  हैं  packed in the K-Cup and sealed air-tight  साथ   a  combination plastic and foil  ढक्कन  .
जब   the  K-Cup is placed  in   a   keurig  brewer , the brewer punctures the foil lid and the bottom of the  k-cup  and  शक्तियां   hot  water under pressure through the  k-cup  and into a mug .
Keurig licenses its K-Cup  प्रौद्योगिकी  to  कॉफी  roasters  और  tea makers  ऐसे   as   ग्रीन  Mountain Coffee Roasters , Diedrich/ Gloria Jeans  ,   टिमोथी  's World Coffee  ,   वैन  Houtte ,  हिरण  Coffee  ,   celestial  Seasonings  ,   bigelow  Tea  कम्पनी  ,  twinings  ,  टली  's ,  कॉफी  People  और  Newman 's Own  .
Keurig 's patents  on  the  असली  K-Cup design expired  in  September 2012 .
Keurig holds  at  least one additional  ,  still-active US  पेटेंट  and another  पेटेंट  application ,  detailing  improvements that have subsequently  महरूम  incorporated  in  their K-Cup design  .
Electa  जेब  Chronograph  (  ca . 1890s ) manufactured by  the  Gallet Watch Company in La Chaux-de-Fonds , Switzerland  .
gallet  MultiChron Astronomic ( ca . 1959 ) —complex mechanical  chronograph   साथ  12 hour recoding capabilities  ,  automatic day , date , month  ,   और  moon  phase  display
A modern  seiko  quartz wristwatch using the chronograph function ( movement 7T92 )  .
नागरिक  Atessa Eco-Drive ATV53-3023  analog-digital  chronograph with 4 area Radio Controlled  रिसेप्शन  ( North America , Europe , China  ,   जापानी  ) .
A chronograph is  a   विशिष्ट  type  of  watch that is used as  a  stopwatch  संयुक्त   साथ  a display  देखें  .
A basic  chronograph  has an  स्वतंत्र   स्वीप  second  हाथ  ; it can  be  started , stopped , and returned to zero by  successive  pressure on the stem .
लुई   moinet   invented  the  chronograph  in 1816
conventional  PCI ( PCI  is  an initialism  formed   इससे  Peripheral  घटक  Interconnect  ,  part of  the  PCI Local Bus standard and often  shortened   to  just PCI ) is a local  कंप्यूटर   बस  for attaching hardware devices in a computer  .
The PCI  बस  supports  the   कृत्यों  found on a processor bus  ,  but  in  a  मानकीकृत   स्वरूप   कि  is independent  of  any  particular  processor  .
डिवाइस   कनेक्ट   to   the  bus appear to the processor  to  be connected  सीधे  to the processor bus , and are assigned addresses in the processor  's  address space .
Attached devices can  लो  either the form  of   an  integrated circuit  fitted  onto the motherboard itself  ,  called a planar device in  the   पीसीआई  specification , or an expansion  कार्ड  that fits into  a   स्लॉट  .
The  पीसीआई  Local Bus  थी   पहला  implemented in  ibm   pc  compatibles , where it displaced the combination  of  ISA plus  एक  VESA  लोकल   बस  as the bus  विन्यास  .
It  रै   subsequently   महरूम  adopted for other  कंप्यूटर  types .
PCI and PCI-X are  होने  replaced  by   पीसीआई   एक्स्प्रेस  ,  लकिन  , most motherboards are still made  साथ  one or more PCI slots , which are sufficient for  अनेक   उपयोग  .
The  पीसीआई   specification   कवर  the  शारीरिक   आकार  of the bus ( including the size and  अंतरण  of the circuit board edge  विद्युत   सम्पर्क  ) , electrical characteristics , bus timing , and  प्रोटोकॉल  .
The specification can be purchased from the  पीसीआई   खास   ब्याज  Group ( PCI-SIG  )   .
Typical  पीसीआई  cards used in PCs  शामिल  : network cards  ,  sound cards  ,  modems  ,  extra  पोर्ट   ऐसे  as USB or  सीरियल   ,   tv  tuner  ताश  and  डिस्क  controllers .
PCI video cards replaced ISA  और   vesa  cards  ,  until growing bandwidth requirements outgrew the capabilities of PCI  ;  the preferred interface  लिये   वीडियो  cards became AGP ,  और   तब  PCI Express  .
PCI  वीडियो  cards remain available for  उपयोग   साथ  old  pcs  without AGP or PCI Express slots .
Many devices previously provided on  पीसीआई  expansion  ताश   हैं   अभी   commonly   एकीकृत  onto  motherboards   or  available in universal  सीरियल  bus and  पीसीआई  Express versions .
Michael Whitaker  स्मिथ  ( born October  7  , 1957 ) is an American contemporary Christian  संगीतकार  , who has charted primarily  in  the contemporary Christian and  occasionally  in  the  mainstream charts .
His biggest success  in  mainstream  म्यूज़िक  was in 1991  जब  `` Place in this World '' hit No  .  6 on the Billboard Hot 100 .
Smith  is  a three-time Grammy Award winner , and has earned  40   dove   पुरस्कार  .
Over the  कोर्स  of his  करियर  ,  he   बेची  more than 13 million albums and  अंकित  29 No .  1  Hit songs  ,   चौदह   सुनहरा   एल्बम  , and five platinum  एल्बम   .
Smith is  an  American Music  पुरस्कार  recipient ;  he  was also named one of People magazine 's `` Most Beautiful  लोगों   ''  .
an  American poster from the World War II  -era  that  थी  used to inform people about  कया  they  चाहिए  do if  वे  suspect  तोड़फोड़  .
Sabotage  is  a deliberate  कार्रवाई   aimed   at  weakening  another   एंटिटी  through subversion ,  रुकावट  , disruption  ,   or  destruction  .
in  a  कार्यस्थल   सेटिंग  ,  तोड़फोड़  is the conscious withdrawal  of   दक्षता  generally directed at causing  कुछ  change in workplace conditions .
One who  engages  in  तोड़फोड़  is a saboteur .
As a rule ,  saboteurs  try to conceal their  पहचान   क्युकी  of the consequences of  उनके   क्रियाएँ   .
लिये  example , whereas an environmental pressure group might  be   प्रसन्न   to   be   पहचाना   साथ   an  act  of   तोड़फोड़  ,  it   होता  not  want  the individual identities of  the  perpetrators known .
Patrick Henry  कॉलेज  (  phc   )  is a private , independent college with  an  Evangelical  ईसाई   आधार  that focuses  on  teaching classical liberal arts  और  government  ,   स्तिथ  in Purcellville  ,  Virginia  ,  United States .
पैट्रिक  Henry is known for its conservative evangelical  ईसाई  focus  .
As of April 17 , 2007  ,   the  college was accredited  by  the Transnational  संघ   of  Christian Colleges and  स्कूलों   ,   a  national faith-related  accrediting  organization recognized by the  विभाग  of Education and the Council for Higher Education  प्रत्यायन  .
the   स्कूल   थी   संस्थापित   साथ  the  सहायता  of  the  Home  स्कूल  Legal  रक्षा   संघ   ,  and  अभी  serves as  the   मुख्यालय  for the  संगठन  , with  जिससे  it is still closely connected .
the  history  of  television  comprises   the   कार्य   of  numerous engineers and inventors in  अनेक  countries over many decades  .
the  earliest proposal was in 1908 , in a paper by A . A. Campbell-Swinton  और  postulated the use of cathode rays  .
the   पहला   व्यावहारिक  demonstrations  of  television ,  however  , were developed using electromechanical  विधि   to  scan ,  संचारण  , and  reproduce  an image .
As  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  camera and display tubes were perfected , electromechanical  टेलीविज़न  gave  रास्ता  to all-electronic systems  in  nearly all applications  .
L'Idéal Cinéma -  ज़ाक   tati  at  aniche  opened November 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active movie theater in  the  world
A cinema in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A typical multiplex ( AMC Promenade 16 in  वुडलैंड  Hills , Los Angeles ,  u.S.   )
A movie theater ( also  पुकारा  a cinema , movie house ,  फिल्मी  house  ,  film theater  or  picture house  )   is  a  स्थान  ,  प्रायः  a  भवन  ,  लिये  viewing films .
Most  लकिन  not all movie theaters are  वाणिज्यिक  operations catering to the general public , who  attend   by   खरीदना  a ticket .
The movie is projected  साथ  a movie projector onto a  विशाल   प्रक्षेप  screen  at   the  front  of  the auditorium .
Most  फिल्म   थिएटर  are now equipped for digital cinema projection , removing  the   need   to  create  और  transport a physical  फिल्मी  print .
Southern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   नॉर्टन  Owner 's Club on California State Route 41 , near Creston .
a  motorcycle  क्लबों  is a group of individuals whose  प्राथमिक   ब्याज  and  क्रियाएँ   involve  motorcycles .
Lyme disease , Lyme borreliosis is an  संक्रामक  disease  caused  by  at  least three species  of   जीवाणु   belonging   to  the genus  borrelia   .
borrelia   burgdorferi  sensu stricto is the  प्रमुख  cause of  lyme  disease  in  North America  ,  whereas  borrelia  afzelii and  borrelia  garinii  कारण   सबसे  European cases .
The disease is  नामित  after  the   कस्बों  of  lyme  and Old Lyme  ,  Connecticut , USA  ,  where a number  of  cases were identified in  1975  .
हालांकि  Allen Steere realized that Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease in 1978  ,  the cause of  the  disease remained  a   रहस्य  until 1981 , when  B.   burgdorferi  was identified by Willy Burgdorfer  .
Lyme disease is the  सबसे   आम  tick-borne disease in the  उत्तरी   गोलार्ध  .
Borrelia  is  transmitted to humans  by  the  काटना  of infected  ticks  belonging  to  a few species of the  genus  Ixodes  (  `` hard  ticks   ''  ) .
Early symptoms may include fever , headache  ,  fatigue , depression  ,  and a  characteristic  circular  स्किन  rash  पुकारा  erythema migrans ( EM ) .
Left untreated  ,  later  लक्षण  may involve the joints , heart ,  और   सेंट्रल  nervous system  .
In most cases , the infection  और  its symptoms are  eliminated  by antibiotics  ,   विशेषकर  if the illness is treated early .
विलम्बित  or inadequate  उपचार  can lead to more serious symptoms , which can be disabling  और  difficult to  दावत  .
Penises of minke whales on display  at  the  आइसलैंडिक  Phallological  संग्रहालय
Penis  (  plural  penises  or  penes  ) is a general  पद   लिये   the  organs with which  पुरूष  and hermaphrodite animals introduce sperm into receptive females during  copulation   .
Such organs occur  in  many animals ,  दोनो  vertebrate  और   invertebrate  ,  लकिन  males do not  भालू   a  penis in every animal species , and in  those  species  in  which the male does bear a so-called penis , the  penes  in the various species  हैं  not necessarily  समजात   .
लिये  example , the penis of a mammal is at most analogous to  the   शिश्न   of  a male insect or  barnacle  .
the  term  शिश्न  applies to  अनेक  reproductive intromittent organs  ,   लकिन  not to all  ;  for  उदाहरण   the  intromittent  अंग   of  most cephalopoda is the  hectocotylus   ,  a specialised arm  ,  and  पुरूष  spiders use their pedipalps .
In most species  of  animals in which there is an  अंग  that might reasonably be  वर्णित   as  a penis , it has no  प्रमुख  function  अन्य  than  intromission   ,   or  at least  conveying   the   शुक्राणु  to the  मादा  , but in the placental  स्तनधारियों  the penis  bears  the  distal  part of  the   urethra  , which  discharges  both urine during urination  और  semen during copulation as the occasion requires .
कलाकारों   और  repertoire  (  A & R ) is the  प्रभाग  of a record label  or  music publishing  कम्पनी  that is responsible  लिये  talent scouting and overseeing the artistic development of recording artists  and/or   songwriters  .
It also acts  as   a  liaison between artists and the  रिकार्ड  label  or  publishing company ; every activity involving artists to  the  point  of   एल्बम  release  is   generally  considered under the purview of  ,   और  responsibility of , A  &   r   .
A furlong  is   a  measure  of  distance in imperial  इकाई  and  u.S.  customary units equal  to  one-eighth  of  a mile  ,  equivalent to 220  गज   ,  660 feet , 40 rods ,  or  10 chains  .
The  सटीक  value  of   the   furlong  varies  थोड़ा   among  English-speaking countries .
पाँच  furlongs are  लगभग  1 kilometre  (  1.0058  km   is   a  closer approximation ) .
Since  the   असली  definition of  the  metre was one-quarter of one  ten-millionth   of  the  परिधि  of the  धरती  ( along the great circle coincident  साथ   the  meridian of longitude  गुजर  through Paris  )  , the  परिधि  of the Earth is about 40,000 km or about 200,000  furlongs  .
CR2032 lithium  बटन  cell battery
Lithium 9  वोल्ट   ,  AA ,  &  AAA sizes
Lithium  बैटरी  are disposable  (   प्राथमिक  ) batteries that  have  lithium metal or  लिथियम   यौगिकों   as  an anode .
They stand  अलावा  from other batteries  in   उनके   ऊँची  charge density ( long life ) and high cost per  ईकाई  .
Depending on  the  design and chemical compounds used , lithium cells  can  produce voltages  इससे   1.5  V  (  comparable  to  a  zinc–carbon  or alkaline battery ) to about 3.7 V. Lithium batteries are widely used  in   उत्पाद   ऐसे  as portable consumer electronic devices  .
रेमंड  `` Ray '' Charles  जोकर   lamontagne   (  ; born June 18  ,   1973   )  is an American singer-songwriter  .
LaMontagne  रै   released  four studio albums , Trouble , Till the Sun Turns  ब्लैक  ,  गपशप  in  the   अनाज  and God Willin ' & the Creek  do  n't  वृद्धि  .
He was born in New Hampshire and  थी  inspired to create music after hearing  an  album by Stephen Stills .
Critics have compared LaMontagne 's music to that  of  The Band  ,   वैन  Morrison  ,   उपनाम   ड्रेक  , and Tim  buckley  .
he   जीवनदान   in  Massachusetts with his wife and two children .
When the Wind Blows is  a  novel by James  पैटरसन  .
It  is   the  precursor to The Lake  हाउस  and  प्रेरित  the  अधिकतम  Ride  श्रेणी  .
The  अनोखा  is currently  नियत  to be  adapted   into  a movie .
The  पिट्सबर्ग  Steelers were founded in 1933 .
Over the  कोर्स  of the team  's   इतिहास  , the team has had  अनेक  logos while wearing virtually  the  same  वर्दी  over  the   सालो  , with subtle changes made to  दे  the uniforms an updated look  .
the   टोली  colors ,  वर्दी  , and  लोगो   हैं  often ranked as being among the best in the NFL .
Facebook on the Ad-tech 2010
फेसबुक   is  an online  सोशल  networking  सेवा  , whose name stems from the colloquial  नाम  for  the  book given to students  at  the  प्रारंभ  of the academic year by  कुछ  university administrations in  the  United  राज्य  to  सहायता   विद्यार्थी  get  to  know each other .
It  थी  founded in  फ़रवरी  2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow  हार्वर्ड  University  विद्यार्थी  Eduardo Saverin ,  एंड्रयू  McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz  और  Chris Hughes .
The  जालस्थल   's  membership was initially  सीमित  by  the  founders  to   हार्वर्ड  students ,  लकिन  was  विस्तारित  to other  कॉलेजों  in the Boston  क्षेत्रफल  ,  the  Ivy League , and Stanford University .
It  धीरे  added support for  विद्यार्थी  at various other  विश्वविद्यालयों  before opening to high school students  ,  and eventually  to  anyone aged 13 and over  .
फेसबुक  now  allows  any  उपयोक्ता   जो  declare themselves to be  at  least 13 years old to become registered  उपयोक्ता   of  the site .
Users must register  पहले   using  the  साईट   ,   बाद  which they may create a  निजी  profile ,  add  other  उपयोक्ता   as  friends  ,  and exchange messages , including  स्वचालित  notifications when they update  उनके  profile .
additionally  , users may join  common-interest   उपयोक्ता  groups  ,   व्यवस्थित   by  workplace , school  or  college ,  or   अन्य  characteristics , and categorize their friends  into   सूचियाँ  such as  ``  People  इससे  Work '' or `` Close  मित्रों  '' .
As of September 2012 , Facebook has  over  one billion active users  .
According to a  may  2011  उपभोक्ता  Reports survey , there  हैं  7.5 million children  अंतर्गत  13 with accounts  और   5   लाख  under 10 ,  violating   the  site 's terms of  सेवा  .
In  may   2005  ,  accel   साझेदार  invested $  12.7  million  in   फेसबुक  , and  जिम  Breyer added $ 1 million  of  his own money  to   the  pot .
A January 2009 Compete.com  पढ़ाई  ranked Facebook  as  the most used social networking service by  विश्वव्यापी  monthly active users .
Entertainment  साप्ताहिक  included the  साईट  on its end-of-the-decade  ``  best-of '' list , saying , `` How on earth did we stalk  हमारी  exes ,  याद  our co-workers '  जन्मदिन   ,  bug our friends ,  और   खेल   a  rousing game  of  Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics ,  ऐसे  as  फेसबुक  Detox , state that Facebook has turned into a national obsession in  the   संयुक्त  States ,  resulting  in vast amounts of  समय   खोया  and  प्रोत्साहित  narcissism .
quantcast  estimates Facebook has 138.9 million monthly unique  u.S.   विज़िटर  in  may  2011 .
According to Social Media Today  ,   in  April 2010 an  अनुमानित  41.6 % ( 129.5 million )  of   the  U.S. population had  a   फेसबुक  account  .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market  विकास  started to stall in some  regions  , with  the   साईट  losing  7  million  क्रियाशील  users  in  the United States and Canada  in  May 2011 .
Facebook eventually filed for  an   आरंभिक  public  offering  on  फ़रवरी   1   ,  2012 , and was headquartered in Menlo Park  ,  California  .
Facebook Inc. began selling  भण्डार   to  the public  और  trading on the NASDAQ  on   may  18  ,  2012 .
अर्विन  Johannes Eugen Rommel (  15   नवम्बर  1891 – 14  अक्तूबर  1944 )  ,  popularly known as The Desert Fox  (  Wüstenfuchs , )  ,  was  a  German Field Marshal of World  युद्ध  II  .
He  अर्जित  the respect of  दोनो   उसके  own troops and the enemies he fought .
Rommel  थी  a highly  सजा  officer in  संसार   युद्ध   i  and was  awarded   the  Pour le Mérite for his exploits  on   the  Italian front  .
In World War  ii  , he  further  distinguished himself as the commander of the  7th  Panzer  प्रभाग  during the  1940   आक्रमण   of  France .
उसके   नेतृत्व   of  German and Italian  शक्तियां   in  the  उत्तर   अफ़्रीकी  campaign established  उसे  as one  of  the  सबसे  able commanders of the war , and earned him the appellation of the  मरुस्थल  Fox .
He  is  regarded  as  one  of  the most skilled commanders of desert warfare in the conflict  .
He later commanded  the  German forces opposing the Allied cross-channel invasion in  normandy   .
His assignments never took  उसे   to  the Eastern  सामने  .
ख़बरों   is  regarded as  having   महरूम  a humane  और   पेशेवर  officer .
His Afrika  कोर्प्स  was  never   अभियुक्त  of  युद्ध  crimes , and soldiers  captured  during  उसके   अफ़्रीकी   अभियान   यहूद  reported to have been treated humanely .
आदेश  to kill  यहूदी  soldiers  ,  civilians and captured commandos  यहूद  ignored .
Late in the war , Rommel  थी  linked to the  षड्यंत्र   to   assassinate  Adolf  हिटलर   .
Since Rommel was a national hero , Hitler desired to eliminate him quietly .
He  मजबूर  Rommel to commit suicide with a cyanide pill  ,   in  return  लिये  assurances that Rommel 's family  होता  not  be   persecuted   following  his death .
Stained  कांच  representation of  the  Holy  स्पिरिट  as a dove , c. 1660  .
The seven gifts of the Holy  स्पिरिट  is an enumeration  of   सात  spiritual gifts originating with  patristic   लेखक  , later elaborated by  पाँच  intellectual virtues and four other groups of ethical characteristics  .
They are :  अक्ल  ,  समझना  , wonder  और  awe  (  fear of the Lord )  ,  counsel , knowledge  ,   fortitude  , and piety  (  reverence ) .
the   धरती  Day Flag , the  नवीनतम  proposal of  जॉन  McConnell for a flag of Earth Day
धरती   दिन  is an annual event , celebrated on  अप्रैल  22 , on which  कार्यक्रम  are held  विश्वव्यापी  to demonstrate support for  पर्यावरणीय  protection  .
It  थी   पहला  celebrated  in   1970  , and is  अभी  coordinated globally  by  the Earth Day Network  ,  and celebrated in more than  192  countries  प्रत्येक   साल   .
In 1969 at a  युनेस्को  Conference in San Francisco ,  the  date proposed was  कूच   21  , 1970 ,  the  first  दिन  of spring in the  उत्तरी  hemisphere .
This day of nature 's  equipoise  was  बाद  sanctioned  in   a  Proclamation signed by  सचिव  General U Thant at the  संयुक्त   राष्ट्र  .
A  माह  later a separate Earth  दिन  was founded  by   संयुक्त  States Senator  gaylord  Nelson as an environmental teach-in first held on  अप्रैल   22   ,   1970   .
नेल्सन  was later awarded the  अध्यक्षीय   पदक  of Freedom Award in  मान्यता  of  उसके  work .
While this April 22  धरती  Day was focused on the United States  ,  an organization launched  by   डेनिस  Hayes  ,  who  थी  the  असली  national coordinator in 1970 , took it  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  in 1990  और   व्यवस्थित  events  in   141   राष्ट्र  .
Numerous communities celebrate Earth Week , an entire week  of  activities  केन्द्रित  on environmental issues .
Iodine is a chemical element  साथ  symbol I and atomic  क्रमांक  53  .
The name is from  यूनानी   ioeidēs  , meaning violet  or  purple ,  due   to  the  रंग   of  elemental  आयोडीन  vapor .
आयोडीन  and  इसके  compounds are primarily used in  पोषण   ,  and industrially in the  उत्पादन  of acetic acid and  निश्चित   polymers   .
Iodine 's relatively high  परमाणु   क्रमांक  ,  कम  toxicity , and ease  of  attachment to  सशुल्क   यौगिकों  have made it a  भाग   of   अनेक   x-ray  contrast materials in modern medicine .
Iodine has  तभी  one stable  समस्थानिक   .
A number  of   आयोडीन  radioisotopes are also used  in   चिकित्सा  applications  .
आयोडीन  is  मिला  on Earth mainly as the  अत्यधिक  water-soluble iodide  आयन  , I− ,  जिससे  concentrates it in  महासागर   और  brine  तालों  .
Like  the  other halogens , free iodine occurs mainly as a diatomic  अणु  I2 ,  और  then  तभी  momentarily after  होने  oxidized  इससे   आयोडाइड  by  an  oxidant like  फ़्री  oxygen  .
In the universe and on Earth ,  आयोडीन  's high atomic number makes it  a  relatively rare element .
however  ,  इसके  presence  in  ocean water has given  it  a  भूमिका   in  biology .
it  is the heaviest essential element utilized widely  by  life in biological functions (  तभी  tungsten , employed in enzymes by a few species  of  bacteria , is heavier  )  .
Iodine 's rarity  in   अनेक  soils ,  due  to initial low abundance as  a  crust-element , and also leaching of  घुलनशील  iodide by rainwater  ,  has led  to   अनेक   कमियां   समस्याएं  in land animals  और  inland human populations  .
आयोडीन  deficiency  affects  about two billion people and is  the  leading  preventable  cause of intellectual disabilities .
आयोडीन  is required  by  higher animals , which use it to synthesize  थायराइड  hormones  ,  which contain the element .
क्युकी   of  this  फलन   ,   radioisotopes  of iodine are  concentrated  in the thyroid gland along  साथ  nonradioactive  आयोडीन  .
If inhaled ,  the  radioisotope iodine-131 ,  जिससे   रै   a   ऊँची  fission product  उपज  , concentrates  in  the  थायराइड  , but is easily  remedied  with  पोटैशियम  iodide treatment .
lobbying   (   भी   लॉबी  ) is the  अधिनियम  of attempting to influence  निर्णय  made  by  officials  in   the  government , most  प्रायः   विधायक   or   सदस्यों  of regulatory agencies .
lobbying  is done by many different types of people and organized groups , including  individuals   in   the  private sector  ,  corporations , fellow legislators  or  government officials  ,  or advocacy  समूह  ( interest  समूह  ) .
Lobbyists may  be  among a legislator 's constituencies ,  अर्थ   a  voter or bloc of  मतदाता  within his  or  her  चुनावी  district  ,  or not ; they may  engage  in lobbying as a business  ,  or not .
Professional lobbyists are  लोगों   जिनकी   कारोबार   is   trying   to   influence  legislation  on  behalf of  a  group or individual who hires  उन्हें  .
individuals  and nonprofit organizations can  भी  lobby as  an   अधिनियम   of  volunteering or as  a  small part  of   उनके  normal job ( for instance , a CEO meeting with a representative  परिचय  a  प्रोजेक्ट   महत्वपूर्ण  to his/her company  ,  or an activist meeting with his/her legislator  in   an  unpaid capacity ) .
Governments often  define  and regulate  व्यवस्थित   समूह   lobbying  that has become  influential  .
the   आचार  and  नैतिकता   of  lobbying  हैं   .
lobbying  is often  बोला  of with contempt , when the implication  is  that  लोगों  with inordinate socioeconomic power are corrupting  the   विधि  ( twisting it away  इससे  fairness  )  in order  to  serve their own conflict of interest .
But another side  of  lobbying is making  यकीनन   कि  others ' interests are duly defended against  अन्य  ' corruption ,  or  even  बस   बनाना  sure that minority interests are fairly  defended  against  mere   जुल्म  of the majority .
For  उदाहरण  , a medical association ,  or  a trade  संघ  of health insurance companies ,  may  lobby a legislature  in  order to counteract the  influence  of tobacco  कंपनियाँ  , in  जिससे  case  the   lobbying  would  be  viewed by  सबसे  people  as  justified (  विधिवत  defending  विरूद्ध   अन्य  ' corruption  )  .
The difficulty  in   आरेखण  objective lines  between   जिससे  lobbyists  हैं   ``  good lobbyists '' and which ones are ``  ख़राब  ones '' is compounded by the cleverness with which  lobbyists   or  their  क्लाइंट  can argue that their own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind .
At  दिल   ,   the  effort to influence legislation is  a  power struggle .
As in other forms  of  power struggle  ,  such as war or law enforcement , motives range from to self-defense  to   लड़  for justice , and the dividing line between predation and  इंसाफ  is subject  to  rationalization .
Sunshine of  अपना  love guitar riff
Cream were a 1960s British rock  supergroup   consisting  of  bassist/vocalist  Jack  ब्रूस  ,  guitarist/vocalist  Eric Clapton  ,  and drummer Ginger Baker .
उनके  sound was  characterised   by  a hybrid of blues rock , hard  चट्टान   और   साइकेडेलिक   चट्टान   ,  combining  the   psychedelia-themed  lyrics , Eric Clapton 's blues guitar  playing   और  vocals  ,  Jack Bruce 's voice  और  prominent  बास  playing  और   अदरक   बेकर   's  jazz -influenced drumming .
The  समूह  's third album  ,  Wheels  of   आग  , was the world 's first platinum-selling double  एल्बम  .
Cream are  widely  regarded as  होने  the world  's  first successful supergroup  .
in   उनके   करियर  , they sold over 15 million albums  विश्वव्यापी  .
Cream 's music  शामिल  songs based on traditional  ब्लूज़  such  as   ``  Crossroads  ``  and  ``  Spoonful  ``  , and modern blues  ऐसे   as   ``   born  Under  a  Bad Sign `` , as well as more  eccentric  songs such as  ``   अजीब  Brew `` , `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and  ``   टॉड  ``  .
मलाई  's biggest hits  यहूद  `` I  महसूस  Free `` (  uk  ,  क्रमांक  11  )  ,  ``  Sunshine  of  Your Love  ``   (  US ,  क्रमांक  5 )  ,  `` White Room ``  (  US , number 6 ) , ``  क्रॉसरोड्स  '' (  us  , number 28  )  , and `` Badge ``  (  UK , number 18 ) .
मलाई   बना  a significant impact on  the  popular  म्यूज़िक  of the time  ,  and ,  साथ  with Jimi Hendrix ,  और  Terry  कठ  of Chicago , popularised the use  of  the  wah-wah  pedal  .
वे  provided a  भारी  yet technically  निपुण  musical  थीम  that foreshadowed and influenced the emergence of British bands  ऐसे   as  The  जेफ़  Beck  समूह   in   the   लेट   1960s  .
The band  's  live  प्रदर्शन  influenced progressive rock  अधिनियमों  such  as  Rush .
मलाई  were inducted into the Rock and  फेंकें   हॉल  of  कीर्ति  in 1993 .
वे  were included in both Rolling Stone and VH1 's  सूचियाँ  of the  ``   100  Greatest  कलाकारों   of  All Time '' .
They were  भी  ranked number 16 on VH1 's  ``  100  महानतम  Artists of Hard Rock '' .
Hairspray is  a  1988 comedy film written  और  directed by John Waters  ,  and starring Ricki  झील  , Sonny Bono ,  डिब्बी  Harry , Michael  st.  Gerard , Shawn Thompson ,  colleen  Fitzpatrick , Jerry Stiller , and in his  पिछला   फिल्मी  role , Divine  .
Hairspray  थी   a  dramatic departure from Waters '  पहले  works  ,   साथ  a  much  broader intended audience .
In  फैक्ट  , Hairsprays PG is  the  mildest rating a Waters film has received ;  सबसे   of  his  पिछला   films  were rated X  by  the MPAA .
Set  in  1962  बाल्टीमोर  , Maryland , the film revolves  around  self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' teenager  ट्रेसी  Turnblad  as  she pursues  स्टारडम  as  a   नर्तकी  on a local  tv  show and  रैलियों  against  जातिगत  segregation .
hairspray  was only a moderate  कामयाबी   upon   इसके   आरंभिक  theatrical release , earning  a  modest gross of $  8  million .
However ,  it  managed to attract a larger audience on home video in the early  1990s  and became a cult classic .
Most critics praised  the  film , although some were displeased  साथ  the overall campiness  .
In 2002  ,   the  film was  adapted  into  a  Broadway musical of the same name , which  जीती   आठ  Tony Awards  ,   सहित  Best  musical  in 2003 .
A  दूसरी  film version of Hairspray ,  an   अनुकूलन   of   the   स्टेज  musical ,  थी  also  released  by  नई  Line Cinema in 2007 ,  जिससे   शामिल  many  परिवर्तन   of  scripted items from  the   असली   .
The film also ranks # 444  on  Empire magazine 's 2008 list  of  the  500  greatest movies of all time .
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body under a  आम   नाम  ,  ढांचा  , and doctrine  भीतर   christianity  .
Some groups included do  नहीं   consider  themselves a denomination ( e.g. , the Catholic  गिरिजाघर   considers  itself the one true church and  the  Apostolic See , and as pre-denominational )  .
कुछ  groups viewed by non-adherents  as   denominational  actively  resist  being called a denomination  और  do  नहीं   have  any formal  denominational  structure , authority  ,   or  record-keeping beyond the local congregation  ;   अनेक   समूह  within Restoration  गति   पतन  into this  श्रेणी  .
Some groups are large  (  e.g .  catholics  ,  lutherans  ,  anglicans  or Baptists ) , while others are just  a  few small churches  ,  and  in   सबसे  cases the relative size  is  not evident in this  सूची  .
Modern movements  ऐसे   as   fundamentalist  Christianity ,  pietism  , Evangelicalism , Pentecostalism and the  पवित्रता  movement sometimes cross denominational lines ,  or  in some cases  बनाएँ   नई  denominations out  of   दो   or  more continuing groups  ,   (  as  is  the case for  अनेक   संयुक्त   और  uniting  चर्च  , for example ) .
Such subtleties and complexities are  नहीं  clearly depicted here .
Major divisions within  christianity  .
Note  :  This is  नहीं   a  complete list , but aims to provide a  comprehensible  overview of  the  diversity among  denominations   of   christianity  .
As there are reported to  be   लगभग  41,000 Christian denominations ,  अनेक  of  जिससे  can not be  सत्यापित   to  be significant , only those denominations  साथ   विकिपीडिया  articles  होगा  be listed in order  to  ensure that  सब  entries on this list are notable and  verifiable   .
Between denominations , theologians ,  और  comparative religionists there are considerable disagreements about which groups can be properly called  ईसाई  ,  मतभिन्नता  arising primarily from doctrinal differences between groups .
For the purpose  of  simplicity , this list  is  intended  to   प्रतिबिंबित  the self-understanding of each denomination .
Explanations of different opinions concerning their status  as  Christian denominations can be found at their  संबंधित  articles  .
There is  no  official recognition in most  भाग  of the  संसार  for religious bodies  ,  and  वहीँ  is  no  official  clearinghouse   जिससे  could  determine  the status or respectability of religious bodies .
Often  वहीँ  is considerable disagreement between various churches about whether other churches should be labeled with pejorative terms such as ``  cult  ''  ,  or about whether  इस  or that group  enjoys  some measure of respectability  .
Such considerations often  vary   इससे  place to  प्लेस   ,  where one  धार्मिक  group may enjoy majority status in one  प्रदेश  , but be  widely   regarded  as a `` dangerous cult ''  in  another  भाग  of the  संसार   .
समावेश  on  इस  list does not indicate  कोई  judgment about  the  size  ,   महत्व  ,  or  character of a  समूह  or its members  .
1804  मैप  of  ``   louisiana   ``   ,  edged on  the   वेस्ट  by the Rocky Mountains  .
The  louisiana  Purchase ( `` Sale of Louisiana '' ) was the acquisition  by   the   संयुक्त  States of America  in  1803  of  of France 's claim to the territory of Louisiana .
the  U.S. paid  50   लाख  francs  (   $  11 ,250,000 ) plus cancellation of  debts  worth 18 million  francs  (  $  3,750,000 )  ,  for a  कुल  sum of 15  लाख  dollars  (  less  than   3  cents  प्रति  acre ) for the Louisiana territory ( $ million in dollars ,  कम  than 42 cents per acre )  .
the  Louisiana territory encompassed  सब  or part of 15  उपस्थित  U.S. states and  दो   कनाडाई  provinces  .
the  land purchased  contained  all  of  present-day Arkansas , Missouri , Iowa , Oklahoma , Kansas , and Nebraska ;  भाग  of Minnesota that  यहूद   वेस्ट  of the Mississippi  नदी  ; most of North Dakota  ;  most  of  South Dakota ; northeastern New Mexico ;  उत्तरी  Texas ; the portions of  मोंटाना  , Wyoming ,  और   कोलोराडो   ईस्ट  of the  महाद्वीपीय  Divide  ;  Louisiana  वेस्ट  of the Mississippi River , including the  नगर  of New Orleans ; and small portions of  जमीन  that would  आखिरकार  become  भाग  of the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan  .
France  नियंत्रित   इस   विशाल   क्षेत्रफल   इससे  1699 until 1762 , the  साल  it gave the territory to its ally Spain .
Under Napoleon Bonaparte , France  took  back the territory in 1800  in  the hope of building an empire  in   उत्तर  America .
a  slave revolt  in  Haiti and  an  impending  युद्ध  with Britain , however , led  फ़्रांस  to  लापरवाही  these plans and  बेचें   the  entire territory to the  संयुक्त  States ,  जो   था   originally   intended  only to seek  the  purchase of New  ऑरलियन्स  and its adjacent lands  .
The  खरीदें   of   the  territory of  louisiana  took place during the presidency  of  Thomas Jefferson .
At the  समय  ,  the  purchase  faced  domestic opposition  क्युकी  it was thought  to   be   असंवैधानिक  .
Although he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did not contain provisions for  acquiring  territory  ,   जेफरसन  decided to  go  ahead with the purchase  वैसे  in order  to   हटाएँ  France  's  presence in  the  region and to protect both U.S. trade access to the port of New  ऑरलियन्स  and  फ़्री  passage on  the  Mississippi River .
Ceremony at  प्लेस  d'Armes , New Orleans marking transfer of Louisiana to the United  राज्य  ,  10  March 1804  ,   as   चित्रित  by Thure  de  Thulstrup  .
``  Cool Jerk  ''   is  a  लोकप्रिय  song written by Donald  storball  and  originally   performed  by The Capitols  .
released   in   1966  , it  पहुँचे  No  .   2  on  the  American R & B chart  और  No . 7  on  the pop chart .
The  बैकिंग  track for this song was actually recorded ( secretly ) by the  motown  house  बैंड   the  Funk Brothers .
प्रति   एक   of   the  Funk  भाइयो  , the  सोंग   थी   originally  to be called `` Pimp  झटका   .  ''
This was taken  इससे  watching neighborhood  pimps  , who  होता  dance  in  the clubs , but were too `` cool  ''  to do the jerk like regular  folks  .
Their version  थी  subsequently named `` the Pimp Jerk . ''
The producer was  भयभीत   कि   a  song with the word pimp in the title would be banned or not receive much  धनात्मक  attention  ,  and had  the   शीर्षक  changed to  इसके  current  रूप  .
the   go-go  's  ,  Todd Rundgren  ,  Big Trouble  ,   इंसान  Sexual  जवाब   ,  The  la  De Da  's  , The Creation ,  और  The Coasters  have  covered  the  song .
Todd Rundgren did his  संस्करण  in  an  odd  समय   हस्ताक्षर  ( 7/4 )  ,  giving an obviously jerky  महसूस   to  the song  .
the   go-go  's covered the  सोंग  for their 1982 album Vacation and  बाद  re-recorded  it  for  उनके  1990  एल्बम  Greatest  .
In the feature  फिल्मी  Home Alone 2 : Lost in New  यॉर्क  , Uncle  फ़्रैंक   (  Gerry Bamman ) sings `` Cool Jerk ''  in  the shower .
A version of the song with different lyrics ( `` Do the  कूल   चाबुक  ''  )   is  used in Cool  चाबुक  commercials .
A recording of  ``  Cool  झटका  '' by Ricardo Ray is featured in the feature film Donnie Brasco (  1997  )  .
The song features  in  the  फिल्मी  Standing  in  the  साए   of  Motown , performed by the  दुर्गंध  Brothers with lead vocals by Bootsy Collins .
the   सोंग  is  सुना  briefly in  the  animated feature , Madagascar 3 : Europe 's Most  चाही   .
Despite this reason  ,  it is  सूचीबद्ध   in  some  विसंगतियाँ   of   the  film 's soundtrack .
a   लीग  is  a   ईकाई   of   लंबाई   (  or ,  rarely  , area  )  .
It was  long   आम   in   यूरोपीय  and Latin  अमेरिका  , but it is  no  longer an official  ईकाई  in any nation .
The league originally  referred  to  the  distance a person  could   चलना  in  an  hour  .
चूंकि  the Middle Ages , many values have been specified in several countries .
In  the   कॉन्टेक्स्ट  of nautical distances ,  the   3  mile ( 4.8 km )  अलहदा  corresponds to how far  an   निरीक्षक  of  औसत  height (  5'9  ''  or  1.78 m  )  can  देखिए   जब  standing at sea level  .
Thus , a ship traveling one  ``   लीग  '' has  पहुँचे  what was  previously  the  farthest  visible distance on the horizon .
the   कमी  of  a  historical and global standard for  the  exact measure of a `` league  ''  can be accounted for by the variable elevation of the  निरीक्षक   (   i.e.  , sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ) .
The  आयरिश   राज्य   आए  into being in  1922  as the Irish Free State ,  a  dominion  of  the British Commonwealth , having seceded  इससे  the United Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish  सन्धि  .
It  comprises   26  of  आयरलैंड  's  32  counties .
Since 1949 it  रै  existed  as  the  गणतंत्र  of Ireland  .
From its foundation , the Irish Free State  थी  embroiled in  a  civil war  between  nationalists supporting the Treaty and opponents who supported a  गणतंत्र  .
The pro-Treaty side ,  संगठित  as  cumann  na nGaedheal  उभरा  victorious from the conflict  और  won  subsequent   चुनावों   .
They  formed  the government of the state until 1932 ,  जब  they peacefully handed over power to  the  anti-Treaty  गुट   in  Fianna  fáil  ,  जो  defeated them in an election .
The Irish state , despite its  हिंसक  beginnings  ,   रै  remained a  उदार  democracy throughout its existence  .
a   नई  constitution  in   1937  removed many  of  the links  साथ  Britain established  अंतर्गत  the Treaty and Ireland 's  neutrality  in the Second World War demonstrated its independence  in   विदेशी  policy matters from  ब्रिटेन   .
In  1948  Ireland formally left the British  राष्ट्रमंडल  and adopted the  शीर्षक   of  ``  गणतंत्र  ''  .
In the economic sphere , the Irish state has  था   a  mixed performance .
On independence  ,  it was  एक  of the  wealthier   देशों  in Europe per head of population .
However it also inherited from British rule the problems of  बेरोजगारी  , emigration  ,   uneven  geographical development  और  lack of a native industrial base  .
For  much  of  इसके  history , the state  struggled  to rectify these problems .
particular  peaks of emigration were  अंकित  during  the  late 1930s ,  1950s  and 1980s , when the  आयरिश  economy recorded little  विकास  .
In the 1930s , Fianna Fáil governments attempted to create  आयरिश  domestic  उद्योग  using  subsidies  and protective tarifs .
in  the late 1950s  ,  these policies  यहूद   dropped  in  पक्ष  of  फ़्री  trade with  चयनित  countries and encouraging of  विदेशी  investment with low taxes .
This was expanded when Ireland entered  the  European Economic Community  in  1972 .
In the  1990s  and 2000s , Ireland experienced an economic  बूम  known  as  the Celtic Tiger ,  in   जिससे  the  देश   's  GDP surpassed  अनेक  of  इसके  European  पड़ोसी  .
Immigration  भी  surpassed emigration  ,   bringing  the  राज्य  's population  up   to  over 4 million  .
however   ,  since 2008 , Ireland has  अनुभवी  a severe crisis  in  the banking sector and with sovereign debt  .
The resultant economic slump has deepened  the  effect of the world recession on Ireland .
From  1937  to  1998  , the Irish constitution included a claim  on  Northern Ireland  as   a   भाग   of   the  national  territory  .
however  ,  the   राज्य  also opposed and  प्रयुक्त  its security forces against those  हथियारबंद  groups -  प्रधानतया   the  Provisional Irish Republican Army ,  जो   आजमाया  to unite Ireland by  फ़ोर्स   .
This  occurred  in the 1950s , throughout the 1970s  और  1980s and has continued on a reduced scale .
आयरिश  governments meanwhile tried to broker an  अनुबंध   to  the  विरोध  known as The Troubles  भीतर  Northern Ireland from 1968 to the  लेट  1990s .
the  British government  officially  recognised the right of  the  Irish government to be  a  party  to  the Northern negotiations  in  the  anglo-irish  Agreement of 1985 .
in   1998  , as  भाग  of  the  Good Friday Agreement , the Irish constitution was  altered  by referendum  to  remove  the  territorial  अर्जी  to Northern Ireland and  बजाय  extend  the  right of Irish  नागरिकता  to all the people of the island  चाहिए  they wish to have  it  .
जॉन  Quincy Adams (  जुलाई  11 ,  1767february  23 ,  1848   )  was the sixth President of  the   संयुक्त  States ( 1825–1829 ) .
he  served as American  राजनयिक  , Senator  ,  and Congressional representative  .
He was a member of the Federalist  ,  Democratic-Republican ,  नेशनल   रिपब्लिकन   ,   और  later  anti-masonic  and Whig  पार्टियों  .
Adams was the son of former President John  एडम्स  and Abigail Adams .
as  a diplomat , Adams played  an  important role  in  negotiating many international treaties , most notably the Treaty of Ghent  ,  which  ended  the  युद्ध  of 1812 .
as  Secretary of State , he negotiated with the  संयुक्त   किंगडम  over  अमेरिका  's northern border with Canada , negotiated  साथ  Spain  the   annexation  of  फ्लोरिडा  , and authored the Monroe Doctrine .
इतिहासकारों  agree he was  एक  of  the  greatest diplomats and secretaries of state  in  American history  .
As president , he sought to modernize the American economy and promoted education .
एडम्स  enacted a part of his agenda and paid off much  of  the national debt  .
he  was stymied by  a  Congress controlled by his enemies ,  और  his  कमी  of  patronage   संजाल   helped   राजनेता  eager to undercut him  .
He  खोया  his  1828   बोली  for re-election to Andrew Jackson .
In doing so , he became  the   पहला  president since  उसके  father  to  serve a single term  .
Adams is best known as a diplomat who shaped  अमेरिका   's  foreign policy in line with his  ardently  nationalist commitment to  अमेरिका  's republican  मान  .
More recently Howe  (  2007 ) portrayed  एडम्स  as the exemplar and moral  नेता  in an  era  of modernization  .
दौरान  Adams ' lifetime ,  technological  innovations  और  new means of communication spread  संदेश   of   धार्मिक  revival , social reform  ,   और   पार्टी  politics .
goods  ,  धन  , and  लोगों   traveled  more rapidly and efficiently  than  ever  पहले  .
Adams was elected  a  U.S. Representative from Massachusetts after  leaving  office , serving for  the   पिछला   17   सालो  of  उसके  life with  दूर  greater  acclamation   than   he  had achieved  as  president .
He is ,  so   दूर  , the only president later  निर्वाचित   to   the  United  राज्य  House of Representatives  (   हालांकि  John Tyler  थी   निर्वाचित  to the  हाउस  of Representatives  of   the  Confederate  राज्य   बस  before his death  in   1862  ) .
एनिमेटेड  by his growing  revulsion  against  गुलामी  , Adams became a leading  प्रतिद्वन्दी  of the Slave  शक्ति  .
He predicted that if a civil  युद्ध  were to  ब्रेक  out  ,  the president could abolish slavery  by  using  उसके  war  शक्तियां   .
Adams also predicted the Union 's  विच्छेद   over  the slavery issue  ,  but  कहा  that if the South  became  independent there  होता  be a series of bloody slave revolts  .
Windows Internet Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) is  a   संस्करण  of the Internet Explorer  वेब  browser from Microsoft .
it  was released  to   the   पब्लिक  on March 14 , 2011 .
Microsoft has released  अंतरजाल  Explorer 9 as a major out-of-band  संस्करण  that  is  not  tied  to the release schedule of any particular version of  खिड़कियाँ  , unlike previous versions .
It is the first version since Internet  एक्सप्लोरर  2 to not  be  bundled with a Windows operating  प्रणाली   ,  although  कुछ   oems   have  installed it with Windows 7 on  उनके   pcs  ,  as  well as  नई  Windows 7 laptops  .
the  system requirements for Internet  एक्सप्लोरर   9   हैं  Windows  7   ,  Windows  सर्वर  2008 R2  ,  Windows  विस्टा  Service Pack 2 or  खिड़कियाँ  Server 2008 SP2 with the Platform  अद्यतन   .
Windows  xp  and earlier are not supported  .
अंतरजाल  Explorer 9 is  the  last  संस्करण   of  Internet Explorer to  be   समर्थित  on Windows Vista  .
Both IA-32 and x64  builds   हैं  available .
Internet  एक्सप्लोरर   9   supports  several CSS 3 properties ,  अंतःस्थापित  ICC v2 or v4 color  प्रोफ़ाइल  support via Windows Color System  ,  and has  improved   जावास्क्रिप्ट  performance .
It is  the   पिछला   of  the  पाँच  major  वेब  browsers to  implement  support  लिये   स्केलेबल  Vector Graphics (  svg   )  .
It also features  hardware-accelerated   ग्राफिक्स  rendering  using  Direct2D , hardware-accelerated text rendering  using  DirectWrite ,  hardware-accelerated  video  रेंडरिंग  using  मीडिया   न्यास  , imaging  support   provided   by  Windows Imaging Component  ,  and high fidelity  मुद्रण   संचालित  by the  xml   पेपर  Specification ( XPS ) print  पाइपलाइन  .
Internet  एक्सप्लोरर   9  also supports  the  HTML5 video and audio tags and the  वेब  Open Font Format  .
alka-seltzer  is an effervescent  antacid  and pain  reliever  first marketed by the Dr . Miles Medicine Company .
It  थी   विकसित   by  Maurice Treener , head  केमिस्ट  at Miles ,  in   elkhart  , Indiana .
Alka-Seltzer  is  marketed for  राहत   of   नाबालिग  aches  ,  pains , inflammation  ,  fever  ,  headache , heartburn , sour  पेट  , indigestion , and hangovers ,  जबकि   neutralizing  excess  पेट   एसिड   .
It  थी  launched in 1931 .
a  spin-off of  alka-seltzer  made  to  relieve colds and  फ्लू  ,  alka-seltzer   प्लस  , was  बाद  introduced  .
A  short-lived   antacid  non-aspirin  रूपांतर   ,   alka-mints   ,  was  introduced   in   1994  and  discontinued  in 1997 .
alka-seltzer  is currently  स्वामित्व  by Bayer  schering  Pharma AG  ,  Germany .
The name `` Alka-Seltzer  ''   रै  been  विस्तारित  to incorporate an entire  लकीर   of  medications sold  over  the counter and  लिया   by  means of rapidly dissolving tablets  कि  form a  कार्बोनेटेड   समाधान   in  water .
Cherry Alka Seltzer Plus Tablet  dissolving   in  water
चित्र  showing the  छह  most common speleothems with  लेबल्स  .
Enlarge to  दृश्य  labels .
A stalactite ( , ;  इससे  the Greek stalasso , ( σταλάσσω  )  ,  ``  to drip ''  ,   और  meaning  ``  that which drips ''  )   is   a   प्रकार   of  speleothem  (  secondary mineral ) that hangs from the  छत  of limestone caves .
It is a type  of  dripstone  .
The corresponding  गठन  on the floor  of  the  गुफा  is known as a stalagmite .
उपाधि  abbreviations are used as an alternative  रास्ता  to specify  an  academic degree instead  of  spelling out the  शीर्षक  in full  ,  such as in  सन्दर्भ  books  जैसे   जो  's  जो   और  on business cards .
Many degrees have more  than  one abbreviation  .
In the  uk  ,  it   is  not  generally   the   कस्टम  to  punctuate  abbreviations for degrees with full stops (  e.g  .  ``  BSc ''  बल्कि  than ``  b.sc  . `` .
Race is  a  classification  प्रणाली   प्रयुक्त  to categorize humans into large and distinct populations or groups by  anatomical  , cultural ,  जातीय  ,  जेनेटिक   ,   भौगोलिक  ,  ऐतिहासिक   ,   भाषाई   ,  religious , or social affiliation .
पहला  used to denote national  संबद्धों   ,  the term began  to   be   प्रयुक्त  to relate to  शारीरिक  traits in  the  17th century  .
In  the  early  20th  century the term was often used , in  a  taxonomic  भाव  ,  to  denote genetically differentiated human  populations  defined  by   phenotype  .
While biologists sometimes use the  अवधारणा  of race  to  make  भेद  among fuzzy sets of traits ,  अन्य  in the scientific community  सुझाएँ   कि  the  विचार   of  race often is used in a  भोली  or simplistic way , i.e . that among humans ,  रेस  has no taxonomic significance : all  जीना  humans  belong  to the same species  ,   होमो  sapiens  और  subspecies , Homo sapiens sapiens  .
Social conceptions and groupings of races vary  over   समय   ,  involving  लोक   taxonomies
कि  define of individuals  आधारित   on  perceived  traits  .
Scientists consider  biological   essentialism  obsolete , and  generally  discourage racial explanations for  सामूहिक   differentiation   in   दोनो  physical and behavioral traits .
Since  the  second half of  the  20th century the associations  of  race  साथ  the  विचारधाराओं  and  theories  that grew out of the work of 19th-century  विज्ञानियों  and physiologists has led  to  the use of the word  रेस  itself becoming problematic  .
हालांकि  still  प्रयुक्त  in  सामान्य  contexts , it  is   अभी  often replaced  by  other words which are less ambiguous and emotionally charged , such as populations  ,  people ( s ) ,  जातीय  groups or communities depending on  कॉन्टेक्स्ट   .
Lucy Stone  (  August  13  , 1818  –  October 19 , 1893 )  थी  a prominent  अमरीकी  abolitionist and suffragist , and  a   गायन  advocate and organizer  promoting   अधिकारों  for  महिलाओं   .
In 1847 ,  स्टोन  became the first woman from Massachusetts  to  earn  a  college degree  .
She spoke  आउट  for women 's  अधिकारों   और   विरूद्ध  slavery at a time when women were discouraged  और  prevented from public speaking .
Stone  थी  the first recorded American woman to retain her  अपना   पिछला  name after  विवाह   .
स्टोन  's  organizational   क्रियाएँ  for the cause of women 's rights  yielded  tangible  gains   in  the difficult political environment  of  the  19th  century  .
स्टोन  helped  initiate  the  पहला   नेशनल  Women 's Rights Convention  और   वो   समर्थित  and  sustained  it annually along with a number  of  other local , state  और   क्षेत्रीय  activist conventions .
Stone  spoke  in front of a number of legislative bodies to promote  कानून   giving   अधिक  rights to women .
वो  assisted  in  establishing the Woman  's   नेशनल   वफ़ादार  League to help  pass   the   तेरहवीं  Amendment and  thereby  abolish slavery , after which she helped  रूप  the  largest   समूह   of  like-minded women  's  rights reformers  ,  the politically moderate  अमरीकी  Woman Suffrage  संघ   ,  which  worked  for decades at the state  स्तर  in  एहसान  of women 's right  to   vote  .
Stone wrote extensively  परिचय  a wide  दायरा   of   महिलाओं  's  अधिकारों  ,  प्रकाशन  and distributing speeches by  herself  and others , and convention proceedings  .
In the  long-running  and influential  स्त्री   's   जर्नल  ,  a  weekly periodical  कि   वो  established and promoted  ,  Stone aired both  उसके   अपना  and differing  दृश्य   परिचय  women  's  rights  .
पुकारा  ``  the  orator '' and  ``  the  morning  star of  the  woman 's rights movement '' , Stone delivered a  वाक   जिससे  sparked  सुसान   B.   एंथोनी  to take up  the   कारण   of  women 's suffrage  .
एलिज़ाबेथ  Cady  stanton  wrote that `` Lucy  स्टोन  was the first  व्यक्ति  by  जिसको  the heart of the American public was deeply  stirred  on the  स्त्री  question .  ''
Together , Anthony , Stanton , and Stone have been called  the  19th century ``  triumvirate  `` of  महिलाओं  's  suffrage   और  feminism  .
in  finance , a bond is an instrument of  indebtedness  of the bond issuer to the holders .
it  is a  कर्ज़  security , under which the issuer owes the holders a debt  और  , depending on  the  terms  of  the bond , is obliged to pay them interest ( the  कूपन   )  or  to   repay  the  प्रिंसिपल  at a later date  ,  termed the maturity .
ब्याज  is  प्रायः  payable  at  fixed intervals ( semiannual  ,   सालाना   ,  sometimes monthly ) .
बहुत  often the bond is  परक्राम्य  , i.e .  the  ownership  of  the instrument  can   be  transferred  in  the secondary  मार्केट   .
यूँ  a bond  is   a  form of loan  or   iou  : the holder  of  the bond is the lender  (  creditor  )   ,   the   जारीकर्ता  of the  बंध   is  the borrower ( debtor ) ,  और  the  कूपन  is the interest .
bonds   provide  the  borrower  with  बाह्य  funds  to   वित्त  long-term investments ,  or  , in the  मामला  of government bonds  ,  to finance current expenditure  .
Certificates of deposit  (  CDs )  or  short  पद  commercial paper are  माना  to  be  money market instruments  और  not  bonds  : the main  अंतर  is in  the   लंबाई   of  the  पद  of the instrument .
Bonds  और   स्टॉक्स  are both securities , but the  प्रमुख   अंतर  between  the   दो  is that ( capital ) stockholders  have  an equity  हिस्सेदारी  in  the  company  (  i.e . they are owners )  ,   whereas  bondholders  have  a  creditor  stake in the company ( i.e  .  they  हैं  lenders ) .
Another difference is that bonds usually  have   a  defined term , or maturity ,  बाद   जिससे  the bond  is  redeemed , whereas stocks may  be  outstanding indefinitely .
an  exception  is   an   irredeemable  bond  ,   ऐसे  as  consols  , which is a perpetuity , i.e . a bond  साथ  no maturity .
A scale  मॉडल  of  the  Tower of  लंदन  .
This model  can  be found  अंदर  the tower .
Scale  मॉडल   of  water powered turbine
l  to R with  12  inch  शासक   at  bottom  :   1:64   matchbox   शेवरलेट  Tahoe , 1:43 Ford F-100 ,  1:25  Revell  monogram   1999  Ford Mustang Cobra  ,  1:18 Bburago  1987   फेरारी  F40
Model  जहाजों   और   किला
A scale model  is  a physical model , a  प्रतिनिधित्व   or   नक़ल  of an  ऑब्जेक्ट  that is larger or  छोटी  than  the  actual size  of  the  ऑब्जेक्ट  ,  जिससे   seeks  to maintain the  सापेक्ष  proportions  (  the scale factor )  of  the physical  आकार   of  the  असली   ऑब्जेक्ट  .
बहुत   प्रायः  the scale model is  प्रयुक्त  as a  मार्गदर्शिका  to  बनाना   the  object in full size  .
स्केल  models are built or collected for many reasons .
The  zune  HD was  a  portable  मीडिया   खिलाड़ी  in  the  Zune product  परिवार  released on September 15  ,  2009 by Microsoft  .
It  थी  a direct competitor with the  ठहराना   ipod  and iPhone series of mobile devices .
It was initially released  in   16  and 32 GB capacities .
A 64 GB  संस्करण   थी  released  on  April 9 , 2010 .
it   utilized   a  touchscreen  इंटरफ़ेस   लिये  navigation and  शामिल   wi-fi   लिये   तुल्यकालन  , access to  the  Zune Marketplace  और  Web browsing .
the  Zune HD utilized  the  Nvidia  tegra  APX 2600 chip ,  allowing   it  to play  720p   वीडियो   through  the optional HDMI  zune  dock on a  high-definition  television .
Otherwise , content would be scaled  bas   to  480x272 pixels on the player 's OLED touchscreen .
बूढ़ा   sparky   ,   the  electric chair used at Sing Sing prison
Execution by electrocution ,  प्रायः  performed using an electric chair , is  an   निष्पादन  method  originating  in the United  राज्य  in which the condemned person is strapped  to  a specially built wooden  कुर्सी   और   electrocuted  through electrodes placed on the body  .
इस   निष्पादन   विधि  was created by employees  of   थामस  Edison  दौरान  the War of  currents  ,  और  has been used only in  the  United States and  ,  for  a   काल   of  several  दशकों  , in the  फिलीपीन   (   इसके  first  उपयोग   वहीँ  in 1924 under American occupation ,  पिछला  in 1976 )  .
Historically , once  the  condemned  व्यक्ति  was attached to  the   कुर्सी  , various cycles  (  differing in  वोल्टेज   और  duration )  of  alternating current would be passed  through  the  व्यक्तिगत  's  देह  ,  in   अनुक्रम  to cause  fatal  damage to the internal  अंगों  (  सहित   the  brain ) .
the  first jolt  of   इलेक्ट्रिक  current was designed  to  cause immediate unconsciousness and  दिमाग  death  ;  the second one  थी  designed  to   कारण  fatal damage to the  vital  organs .
Death  थी   अक्सर  caused  by   विद्युत  overstimulation of the heart .
हालांकि  in the United  राज्य   the  electric  कुर्सी  has  become   a   प्रतीक  of the  मौत  penalty ,  इसके  use is in decline  due  to  the   वृद्धि  of lethal injection ,  जिससे  is widely  believed  to be  a   अधिक  humane method of  निष्पादन  .
Although some states  स्टिल  maintain electrocution as a method of  निष्पादन  , today it is only maintained as a secondary method  कि  may be chosen over lethal  इंजेक्शन   at   the  request of the prisoner .
As of  2010  , electrocution is  an  optional  रूप  of execution in Alabama , Florida  ,   दक्षिण   कैरोलिना  and Virginia .
They allow the  कैदी  to choose lethal injection as an alternative method  .
In the  राज्य  of  केंटकी  and Tennessee , the electric chair has been retired except for those whose capital  अपराधों  were  वचनबद्ध  prior  to  legislated dates in 1998 (  केंटकी  : March 31 ,  1998  ; Tennessee  :   दिसम्बर  31 , 1998  )  and who chose  electrocution  .
In both  राज्य  , inmates who do  नहीं   चुनें   electrocution  or  inmates   जो   वचनबद्ध  their crimes after the  designated  date  हैं  killed  by   lethal  injection .
The electric chair  is  an  वैकल्पिक   रूप  of execution approved  लिये  potential use  in   अरकंसास   और  Oklahoma if  अन्य  forms of execution are found unconstitutional  in  the  राज्य  at  the   समय  of  निष्पादन  .
it  is the  एकमात्र   विधि   of   निष्पादन  in  वर्मांट  , where treason is  the  only capital crime .
On February  8  , 2008 , the  नेब्रास्का  Supreme Court determined that  निष्पादन   by   इलेक्ट्रिक  chair was  a   ``  cruel and unusual punishment '' under the state  's  constitution .
This brought  executions  of this type to an  समाप्त   in  Nebraska , the only remaining  राज्य  to retain electrocution as its  एकमात्र  method of execution for  हत्या  .
the  Maryland House of Delegates is  the  lower house  of  the General Assembly , the state legislature of  the   अमरीकी  State of Maryland  ,  and is  रचित   of  141  delegates  elected  इससे   47  districts  .
The House of  delegates  Chamber  is  located in the Maryland  राज्य  House  (  state  कैपिटल  ) on State  वृत्त  in Annapolis ,  जिससे   is  the state capital  .
the   राज्य  House also houses  the   मेरीलैंड   राज्य   सीनेट  Chamber and the offices  of  the Governor and  लेफ्टिनेंट  Governor of the State of  मेरीलैंड  .
Each Delegate has offices in Annapolis  ,  in the  आसपास  Casper R. Taylor  ,  Jr. House Office Building .
the   मुक्ति  of Paris ( also known as  the  Battle  लिये  Paris ) took  प्लेस   दौरान  World  युद्ध  II from 19 August  1944  until the surrender of the occupying  जर्मनी   गैरीसन   on  25 August .
The Liberation of Paris started with  an  uprising by the French  प्रतिरोध  against the  जर्मनी  garrison  .
on   24  August ,  the  French Forces  of  the Interior  (  Forces françaises de  l'intérieur  , FFI ) received reinforcements from  the  Free  फ्रेंच  Army  of  Liberation and from the  u.S.  Third  फौज   अंतर्गत  General  patton  .
the   पूंजी  region  of  France had been governed by Nazi  जर्मनी  since  the  signing  of  the  दूसरी   compiègne  Armistice in June 1940 , when the  जर्मनी  Army  occupied   उत्तरी  and  westernmost  France ,  और  when the puppet regime of Vichy France was  स्थापित  in the town of Vichy in  सेंट्रल  France .
This battle  चिह्नित  the liberation of Paris and the  निर्वासन  of the  vichy  government to  sigmaringen   in  Germany .
However , there was still  much   भारी  fighting to be  किया  before France was liberated ,  सहित   the  campaign in  दक्षिणी  France  दौरान   august-september   (   in  Provence and extending  into  the  southwestern  region  of   the   vosges  Mountains ) ,  साथ   the  German-held seaports of western France ( such  as  at  brest  and Dunkirk )  ,   in  Alsace and Lorraine in  पूर्वी   फ़्रांस   ,  and in northeastern  फ़्रांस  , such as along the Rhine and  moder   नदियाँ  .
The  जर्मनी   फौज  and SS fought doggedly  in   ये  areas  लिये  the  शेष  of  1944  and  into  1945  .
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also  ज्ञात  as `` Feeling  alright  ''  is  a  सोंग  written by Dave  मेसन  of  the  English rock band Traffic from  उनके  eponymous  1968   एल्बम  , Traffic .
the   सोंग  was also a hit  सिंगल  for several performers : Joe Cocker ( 1969 ,  #  69 ,  recharted  in 1972 , US #  33  ) , Mongo Santamaría  (  1969 ,  #  95 ) and Grand Funk  रेलरोड  ( 1971 ,  us  # 54  )  .
It has also  महरूम   अंकित   by  Three Dog Night ( 1969 ) , The 5th  आयाम   (  1970  )  , Lou Rawls , Freddie King , Paul Weller  ,   lulu   ,   chairmen   of  the Board (  1970   )  , Rare  धरती  , The  इलेक्ट्रिक  Concept  ऑर्केस्ट्रा  , Mother  's  Finest (  1973  )  ,  The Ohio Players ( 1971  )   ,  Diana  रॉस  with  the  Jackson 5 ( 1971 ) , Maceo  पार्कर  ,  gladys  Knight  &   the  Pips , Widespread Panic  और  The  ब्लैक   crowes  .
A Steel  ढोल   संस्करण  by  त्रिनिदाद  Oil Company  थी  reissued on the  dancefloor  jazz compilation Blue Juice 2 .
It was also featured in the  2000   फिल्मी   duets  ,  सुंग  by Huey  लुईस  .
Both the original and the Joe  cocker   कवर  were featured  in  the movie  उड़ान  ,  अभिनीत  Denzel Washington .
Devon Werkheiser ( born March  8,1991  ) is an American  कर्ता  , voice actor , singer  ,  songwriter and musician , best known for his  अभिनीत   भूमिका  as Ned  bigby  on the  निकलोडियन  sitcom Ned  's   declassified   स्कूल  Survival Guide and for his role in the 2007 TV Movie Shredderman Rules ,  as  the lead character Nolan Byrd  .
Werkheiser also  निभाई   पीटर  Parkes  in   the   चौथी   और   फाइनल   ऋतु  of the ABC Family show Greek .
Sample view of  an  electronic health  रिकार्ड  based  on   बिंब
Sample view of  an   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   स्वास्थ्य   रिकार्ड
An electronic health record ( EHR  )   is  an evolving concept  पारिभाषित   as  a systematic  संग्रहण  of electronic  स्वास्थ्य  information about individual patients or  populations  .
It is a record in digital format that  is  theoretically capable  of  being shared across  अलग   स्वास्थ्य  care  जमावट  .
In  कुछ  cases this sharing can occur  by  way of network-connected enterprise-wide  सूचना  systems and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may include a  दायरा  of data  ,   सहित  demographics , medical history ,  दवा  and  allergies  , immunization  औकात  , laboratory test results , radiology  बिंब  , vital signs , personal stats like age and  वज़न  , and billing  सूचना   .
Loan origination  is   the   प्रक्रम  by which  a  borrower  applies   लिये   a   नई  loan , and a lender processes  कि   अनुप्रयोग  .
Origination generally  शामिल   सब  the steps from taking a loan application up to disbursal of  निधि   (  or  घटती  the application  )   .
Loan servicing  कवर  everything after  disbursing   the  funds until the loan is fully paid off .
Loan  origination  is  a  specialized  संस्करण   of   नई  account opening  लिये  financial  सेवाएं  organizations .
Certain people and organizations specialize  in  loan  origination  .
Mortgage brokers  और  other mortgage originator companies  serve  as a  prominent  example .
There  हैं  many different types of loans  .
लिये  more information on loan types  ,  see the loan and consumer lending  आलेख   .
कदम  involved in originating a loan vary  by  loan type  ,   विभिन्न  kinds  of   ऋण   रिस्क  , regulator , lender policy , and other factors .
Top left : The Tennessee  घाटी   प्राधिकार  , part of the New  सौदे  , being  हस्ताक्षरित  into  विधि  in  1933   .
शीर्ष  right  :  Franklin Delano  रूज़वेल्ट  , who was  जिम्मेदार   लिये   पहलों  and programs collectively known as the New Deal  .
नीचे  :  a   पब्लिक  mural  इससे  one of  the  artists  employed   by  the  नई  Deal .
The New Deal was a series of economic programs enacted in the United States  between  1933  और  1936 .
They involved presidential executive orders  or  laws passed by  कॉंग्रेस  during  the  first term  of  President Franklin D. Roosevelt  .
The  कार्यक्रम   यहूद  in response to the Great  अवसाद  , and focused on  कया  historians call  the  ``  3  Rs ''  :  Relief , Recovery ,  और   सुधार  .
That  is  Relief for  the   बेरोजगार  and poor ; Recovery of the economy to normal levels  ;  and Reform of the financial system  to  prevent a repeat  अवसाद  .
The New Deal produced a political  realignment  ,  बनाना  the  लोकतांत्रिक  Party the  बहुमत  (  as  well as the  पार्टी  that held  the  White  हाउस  for  सात  out  of  nine Presidential terms  इससे  1933  to  1969 )  ,  with its base  in   उदार  ideas ,  the  white South , traditional Democrats , big city  मशीने  , and the newly empowered labor unions and ethnic minorities  .
the  Republicans were  विभाजित   ,   साथ  conservatives opposing the entire New Deal as an enemy of business and  विकास  ,  और  liberals accepting some of  it   और  promising to  मेक  it more efficient .
the  realignment  crystallized  into  the  New  सौदे  Coalition that  वर्चस्व  most  अध्यक्षीय   चुनावों  into  the  1960s  ,  while the opposition  रूढ़िवादी   गठबन्धन  largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963 .
by  1936 the term `` liberal '' typically was  प्रयुक्त  for supporters of the New Deal  ,  and  ``  conservative `` for its  प्रतिद्वंद्वियों   .
From 1934 to  1938  , Roosevelt  थी  assisted in his  endeavours  by a “pro-spender” majority  in  Congress ( drawn from two-party  ,  competitive ,  non-machine  , Progressive  ,  and Left party districts ) .
As  विख्यात  by  सिकंदर   हिक्स  , “Roosevelt , backed  by  rare  ,   non-southern  Democrat majorities — 270  non-southern  Democrat representatives and 71 non-Southern Democrat senators  —  spelled  दूसरी   नई  Deal reform.”
Many  इतिहासकारों  distinguish between  a  `` First New  सौदे  '' ( 1933–34  )  and a  ``  Second New Deal ''  (   1935–38  ) ,  साथ  the second one more liberal and  अधिक  controversial .
The  ``  First New Deal '' (  1933–34  ) dealt  साथ  diverse  समूह   ,   इससे  banking and railroads to industry and farming , all of  जिससे  demanded  सहायता  for  आर्थिक   अस्तित्व  .
The Federal Emergency Relief Administration , for instance ,  provided   $  500 million for relief operations by  राज्य   और  cities , while the short-lived  cwa  ( Civil  works  Administration  )   दिया  localities  धन   to   operate   make-work  projects in 1933-34  .
the  ``  दूसरी  New  सौदे  `` in 1935–38 included the Wagner Act to promote labor unions ,  the  Works Progress Administration ( WPA ) relief  कार्यक्रम   (  which made  the   संघीय  government by far  the  largest single employer in the  स्वदेश  ) , the Social Security Act , and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers .
the   फाइनल  major items  of  New Deal legislation  यहूद  the creation of  the   संयुक्त  States Housing Authority and Farm Security Administration ,  दोनो  in 1937 , and the  मेला  Labor  मानकों  Act  of   1938  , which set maximum  घंटों  and minimum wages for  सबसे   श्रेणी  of workers .
The economic  downturn  of 1937–38 , and  the   कड़वा  split between  the  AFL and CIO  मजदूर   संघ  led to  प्रमुख  Republican gains  in   कॉंग्रेस  in  1938  .
Conservative Republicans  और  Democrats in  कॉंग्रेस  joined in the informal  रूढ़िवादी  Coalition .
By 1942–43 they  shut  down  राहत  programs  ऐसे  as  the  WPA  और  CCC and blocked major  उदार  proposals .
Roosevelt himself turned his attention to  the  war effort ,  और  won  reelection   in  1940  और   1944  .
the   परम्   अदालत  declared  the  National  रिकवरी   प्रशासन  ( NRA ) and the first version  of  the Agricultural  समायोजन  Act ( AAA ) unconstitutional , however the AAA was rewritten and then upheld .
As the first Republican president elected after FDR , Dwight D. Eisenhower  (  1953–61  )  left the  नई  Deal largely  बरकरार  , even expanding  it  in some  क्षेत्रों   .
In the  1960s   ,  Lyndon B. Johnson  's   ग्रेट  Society used  the  New  सौदे   as  inspiration  लिये   a  dramatic expansion of liberal programs ,  जिससे   रिपब्लिकन  Richard M. Nixon generally  retained  .
After  1974  ,  however   ,  the call  लिये   deregulation  of  the   अर्थव्यवस्था   gained  bipartisan support .
The  नई  Deal  विनियमन  of  बैंकिंग   (  Glass–Steagall  अधिनियम   )  was suspended in  the   1990s  .
Many New Deal programs remain active , with  कुछ   स्टिल  operating under  the  original  names  , including the Federal Deposit  बीमे  Corporation  (  FDIC )  ,   the  Federal Crop  बीमे  Corporation (  fcic  )  ,   the   संघीय   आवास  Administration ( FHA ) , and the  टेनेसी  Valley Authority ( TVA ) .
The largest programs still in existence today are  the  Social Security System and the  प्रतिभूति  and Exchange  आयोग  (  सेक  )  .
A woman ( )  ,  pl  :  women ( ) is a female  इंसान  .
The  पद   स्त्री  is usually reserved for an adult , with the term  लड़की  being the  usual  term for a female child or adolescent .
however  , the term woman  is  also  sometimes  used to  पहचानो  a female human  ,  regardless of age , as in  वाक्यांश  such as `` Women  's  rights `` .
Women  हैं  typically capable of giving birth , though older women  जो  have  गए  through  रजोनिवृत्ति   और  some  intersex  women can  नहीं  .
``  I Do n't Want to  मिस   a  Thing  ''  is a song performed by American  चट्टान   बैंड  Aerosmith  लिये   the   1998  film  armageddon  .
लिखा  by Diane Warren , the  सोंग  debuted at  क्रमांक  one  on   the   बिलबोर्ड   hot   100  ( the  पहला  # 1  लिये  the band after 28 years  साथ   )  .
The  सोंग  stayed  at  number one for four  सप्ताह   इससे  September 5  to   सितंबर   26   ,   1998   .
The song also stayed at  क्रमांक  1 for  अनेक  weeks in several other  देशों   .
In the UK , the  सोंग   peaked  at  क्रमांक  four ,  बनने  Aerosmith 's highest charting song in the  uk  , where it  थी  the  17th  best-selling single of  1998  ,  और  has sold  over   a   लाख   नक़ल  .
Although  नहीं  used  by  the majority of  the  world  's  countries ,  daylight  saving  समय  is common in  the  Western  संसार   .
Daylight saving time ( DST ) —also summer time in British English  —  is the practice  of  advancing  घड़ियाँ   दौरान   the  lighter months so  कि   evenings  have more daylight and mornings  have  less .
typically  clocks are  समायोजित  forward  एक   घंटा   निकट  the start of spring and are adjusted backward in autumn .
The  आधुनिक  idea of daylight  छायांकन  was  पहला  proposed in 1895  by   जार्ज  Vernon Hudson and it was first implemented during the First World War .
Many  देशों  have used it  at   विभिन्न  times since then  .
much  of the United  राज्य  used DST in the 1950s  और   1960s  ,  और   dst  use expanded following  the   1970s  energy  संकट  and has  महरूम   widely  used in North America  और  Europe since then .
the  practice  रै   महरूम  both praised and criticized .
Adding daylight  to  evenings benefits retailing ,  खेल  , and other activities that exploit  धूप  after working  घंटों   ,  but can  कारण  problems  लिये   संध्या   entertainment   और  other occupations  tied   to  the sun .
हालांकि  an early  लक्ष्य  of DST  थी  to reduce evening usage of  incandescent  lighting  (   formerly  a  प्राथमिक  use of electricity ) , modern heating  और   कूलिंग   उपयोग  patterns  differ  greatly  ,   और  research about how  dst  currently affects energy  उपयोग   is  limited or  contradictory   .
dst  clock  शिफ्ट  present  अन्य  challenges .
They complicate timekeeping ,  और   can  disrupt  बैठक  ,  सफर  ,  बिलिंग   ,   रिकार्ड  keeping , medical devices  ,   भारी  equipment , and sleep patterns .
Software can  प्रायः  adjust computer  घड़ियाँ  automatically  ,  but  इस  can be  सीमित  and error-prone ,  विशेषकर   जब  DST  तिथियाँ  are changed .
floorplan  of  the  Château de Montargis
Montargis is  a  commune  in  the Loiret department  in  north-central France on the Loing river .
The town is located about south of Paris  और  east of Orléans in the Gâtinais .
montargis  is the second largest  नगर  in  the   loiret  ,  बाद  Orléans  .
it  is near a large  वन  , and contains light industry and farming , including saffron .
Due to its numerous canals  और  bridges , Montargis  sometimes  bills itself as the  ``   वेनिस  of  the  Gâtinais . ''
Though quite modern ,  it  retains a  मध्यकालीन   आकर्षण  in  इसके  downtown  क्षेत्रफल  .
in   कंप्यूटर  storage ,  a  logical unit  क्रमांक  , or LUN  ,  is a number used to identify a  लॉजिकल  unit , which is a device addressed by  the   scsi  protocol or  प्रोटोकॉल  which encapsulate SCSI , such as  fibre  Channel or iSCSI  .
A  lun  may  be   प्रयुक्त   साथ  any device which supports  read/write  operations  ,   ऐसे  as  a  tape drive , but  is  most often used to refer to a logical disk as created  on  a  सैन  .
Though not  technically  correct  ,   the  term `` LUN ''  is   प्रायः  also  प्रयुक्त  to refer  to  the logical  डिस्क  itself .
The Gospel According to Mark  (  , , to euangelion kata  markon  )  ,  commonly  shortened  to the Gospel  of  Mark or simply Mark , is the second book  of  the New  वसीयत  .
इस   canonical  account of the life  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth is one of the three synoptic gospels .
It  थी  thought to  be   an  epitome  ,  which  खाते  for  इसके  place as the second gospel in the Bible .
However  ,  most contemporary scholars  अभी  regard  it  as the earliest of the canonical gospels (  c  70  )  .
That Mark was  प्रयुक्त   as  a source  लिये  the other  synoptic  gospels  इन्जील  of Matthew  और   इन्जील   of  Luke is widely held by  अनेक  ,  हालांकि   नहीं  all  ,  New Testament scholars .
The  इन्जील   of  Mark narrates the Ministry  of   यीशु  from his baptism by John  the   बैपटिस्ट  to his death  और  resurrection .
it  focuses particularly on  the   पिछला  week of his  जीवन  ( chapters 11–16 )  in   जेरूसलम  .
Its swift narrative portrays Jesus as  a  heroic  man  of  कार्रवाई   ,   an   exorcist  ,  healer  and miracle worker .
An important theme of  चिह्नित  is the Messianic Secret  .
Jesus silences  the   demoniacs  he heals ,  कोशिशें   unsuccessfully  to keep his messianic  पहचान   रहस्य  , and conceals  उसके  message  साथ  parables .
Meanwhile , the  शिष्यों   असफल  to understand both the implication  of  the  चमत्कार   of  Jesus and the  अर्थ  of the things  he   predicts  about his  गिरफ़्तार   ,  death and  क़यामत   .
Most scholars  मानना   कि  the original  टेक्स्ट  of the gospel  ends   at  Mark 16:8 with the discovery of  यीशु  ' empty  मकबरा  and  कि   the  following account of his resurrection appearances is a later addition .
according  to  परंपरा   और  some  जल्दी  church writers ,  the  author is Mark the Evangelist , the  साथी  of the apostle Peter .
The gospel , however , appears  to   rely   on   अनेक  underlying sources , varying  in   रूप  and in theology ,  जिससे  tells against the tradition that  the  gospel  थी   आधारित  on Peter 's preaching  .
The text  is   a  compilation which  may  include eye-witness  खाते  as  खूब   as   ज्ञात   अपोस्टोलिक  preachings  ,  and pre-existing written records  कि   do  not exist today but can be confirmed  इससे  2nd-century  टीकाकारों  .
कुछ   of  the  कहानियां   in  the gospel may have  महरूम  transmitted  orally  before being written down .
Various  तत्व  within the gospel suggest  कि  the author wrote in Syria or  फिलिस्तीन  for a non-Jewish Christian  जातियाँ  .
The Lord of  the   बजती  is an epic  ऊँची  fantasy novel  लिखा  by  अंग्रेज़ी  philologist and  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Oxford professor J.  R.  R.  tolkien  .
The story began as a sequel to Tolkien  's   1937   children  's fantasy novel The Hobbit , but  आखिरकार  developed into a much larger work .
it  was  लिखा  in  चरण  between 1937 and 1949  ,  much of  it  during World War  ii  .
it  is the  दूसरी  best-selling novel ever written ,  साथ  over 150 million  नक़ल  sold .
The title of  the   अनोखा  refers to the story 's  प्रमुख   विपक्षी  , the  अंधेरा  Lord Sauron ,  जो  had in  an  earlier  आयु   निर्मित   the  One Ring  to  rule the other Rings of Power  as   the  ultimate  हथियार  in his campaign to conquer and rule all of  middle-earth   .
इससे  quiet beginnings in  the  Shire , a Hobbit  जमीन  not unlike  the  English  countryside   ,   the  story ranges  आरपार  north-west Middle-earth , following the course of  the  War  of   the  Ring  through   the   आँखें   of  its characters ,  notably  the hobbits  frodo  Baggins ,  samwise   ``  Sam ''  gamgee  , Meriadoc  ``  Merry  ''   brandybuck  and Peregrin ``  pippin   ''  Took ,  लकिन   भी  the hobbits  '   मुख्य  allies and travelling companions  :  Aragorn ,  a  Human  रेंजर  ; Boromir , a man from  gondor  ; Gimli  ,  a  बौना   योद्धा   ;  Legolas , an Elven prince ; and  gandalf  , a Wizard .
The  कार्य   थी  initially intended  by  Tolkien to be one  आवाज़  of a two-volume set  ,  with the other being The  silmarillion  , but this  विचार  was dismissed by  उसके  publisher .
it   थी   decided   लिये   आर्थिक  reasons to publish The Lord of the Rings as  तीन   आयतन   over  the course of a year  इससे  29  जुलाई  1954  to   20  October 1955  ,  thus  बनाना   the  now familiar  रब  of the Rings trilogy .
the  three volumes were entitled The Fellowship of  the  Ring , The  दो   मीनारें  , and The Return  of  the  किंग   .
structurally   ,  the novel  is  divided internally into six books , two  प्रति   आवाज़   ,  with several appendices of background  सामग्री  included at  the  end of the third volume .
the  Lord of the Rings  रै   चूंकि   महरूम  reprinted numerous times and translated  into  many languages .
tolkien  's work  रै   महरूम  the subject  of  extensive  विश्लेषण  of  इसके  themes  और  origins  .
Although a major  कार्य   in  itself , the story was only the last movement  of  a larger epic Tolkien  था  worked  on  since 1917 ,  in  a process he  वर्णित   as  mythopoeia  .
Influences on  इस  earlier work  ,   और  on  the  story of The  रब   of   the  Rings , include philology  ,   mythology  , religion  और  the author 's distaste for the effects of industrialization  ,   as  well as  पहले  fantasy  works  and  tolkien  's experiences in World War  i  .
The Lord of  the  Rings  in  its turn is  माना   to  have had  a  great effect on modern  काल्पनिक  ;  the  impact  of   tolkien  's works is  ऐसे  that the use  of  the words `` Tolkienian  ''   और  ``  tolkienesque   ''  have been  अंकित  in the  ऑक्सफोर्ड  English  शब्दकोष  .
the  enduring popularity of The Lord  of  the Rings has led to numerous  सन्दर्भ  in  लोकप्रिय   संस्कृति  , the founding  of   अनेक  societies by fans  of   tolkien   's  works , and  the  publication  of   अनेक  books  परिचय  Tolkien and his works  .
The Lord of the Rings has inspired , and  continues  to inspire , artwork  ,   म्यूज़िक  , films and television  ,  video  खेल  , and  subsequent   साहित्य  .
Award-winning adaptations of  the  Lord of the Rings have been  बना  for radio  ,  theatre , and film  .
The following is an episode list for  the   निकलोडियन  sitcom  ड्रेक   &  Josh .
The series debuted on January  11  , 2004 .
A TV film  मैरी  Christmas  ,   ड्रेक  & Josh was made apart from  the  regular series on  दिसम्बर  5  ,   2008  .
There are  a  total of 60  एपीसोड  were produced spanning  चार  seasons .
Drake Bell  ,  Josh  पेक   ,  and Miranda Cosgrove were  the  only actors to appear in all  60   एपीसोड  .
the  San Francisco  49ers  conduct  प्रशिक्षण   शिविर  at the team 's  मुख्यालय   और  practice facility  in   सांता  Clara  ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  in August 2010 .
the  offense is  wearing   रेड  jerseys  साथ  the exception of quarterback Alex  स्मिथ   ,  who is  in   a  black  जर्सी   ;   the  defense in white  .
In the National Football  लीग  , training  शिविर  refers to the time before the  ऋतु  commences .
During this time , teams will  sometimes  congregate  at  an  बाहर  location , usually a university , to  conduct   प्रशिक्षण  camp for at least  the  first few weeks .
This is similar to baseball 's spring training .
Training camp is used  in   अनेक  different  तरीके  .
नई  players  और  coaches  उपयोग  it to  acclimate  themselves  to  new teammates and systems .
For  younger  players , it  serves  as a period of evaluation ; for  दिग्गजों  , it is time to round  वापस  into  रूप  .
Training camp is  विभाजित   into  several different  components  .
The first is scrimmages .
These  हैं  pseudo-games where teams run nearly  पूरा   खेल   '  worth of plays .
Sometimes , two practice sessions are held on the  वही  day .
इस  concept is referred to as  two-a-days  .
Other parts of  प्रशिक्षण   शिविर  include drills , meetings  साथ  coaches and other players at one  's   स्थिति  ,  वज़न  training , and pre-season games .
the  latter  हाफ  of training camp leads directly into  the   प्रदर्शनी   ऋतु   .
With  एनएफएल   प्रशिक्षण  camps  starting  in late-July , the biggest concern has  महरूम  dehydration  .
In  2001  , Minnesota  वाइकिंग्स  player Korey Stringer died of a medical condition based  इससे  dehydration  और  heatstroke .
The  मौत   of  Stringer prompted the  एनएफएल   to   बदलें  their  प्रशिक्षण  policies  .
At each practice  ,  every team  जरूर   have  the team  डॉक्टर  and trainers on the field ; additionally , an ambulance  जरूर  be present  दौरान  practices .
With NFL  प्रशिक्षण   शिविरों  beginning in late  जुलाई  , severe weather  can  affect practice  और  exhibition  खेल  .
In  2002  , a Cleveland  भूरा   प्रदर्शनी  game ended  due  to  बिजली  near Cleveland Browns Stadium , and  कठोर   तूफ़ान  have been known to disrupt training camps .
Fans  हैं   प्रायः  able to visit  उनके  favorite  टोली   's  training  शिविर   to   कैच   an  early look at  the   खिलाड़ी  ;  प्रवेश  to practices is often free  or  substantially  कम  expensive than a game ticket ,  बनाना   प्रशिक्षण  camp  यात्राएँ   a  popular  विकल्प  for fans  जो  can  नहीं   attend   अनेक  games  due  to financial  or  other reasons .
NFL teams  प्रायः  sell souvenirs  और   concessions   at   शिविर  sites  साथ  with  offering   क्रियाएँ  and events  to  make  प्रशिक्षण  camp a more fan-friendly experience  .
in  computing  ,   a  file system ( or filesystem  )  is a type of  आंकड़ा  store which  can  be used to  स्टोर  ,  retrieve  and update a set of  फाइलें  .
the  term  could  refer  to  the abstract data  structures  used  to   define  files , or  to  the actual software or firmware components  कि  implement the abstract ideas  .
Some file systems are used on local data storage devices ; others provide file access via a  संजाल  protocol  (   e.g  . NFS ,  smb  , or 9P  क्लाइंट  ) .
Some file  प्रणालियों  are `` virtual '' , in  कि  the  ``  files '' supplied  हैं  computed on  निवेदन  (  e.g  . procfs ) or are merely a mapping into a different file system used  as  a backing store .
The file  प्रणाली   manages   अभिगम   to   दोनो  the content  of  files and  the   मेटाडेटा   परिचय  those files  .
It  is  responsible  लिये  arranging storage  स्पेस  ;  विश्वसनीयता  , efficiency , and  ट्यूनिंग  with regard to  the  physical  भंडार  medium are important design  considerations   .
William Howard  taft  (  सितंबर   15   ,  1857 – March 8 , 1930  )  was the 27th  अध्यक्ष  of  the  United  राज्य  (  1909–1913   )   और  later  the   दसवाँ  Chief  इंसाफ   of   the  United  राज्य   (  1921–1930  )   .
He is the only  व्यक्ति  to  have  served in both  of  these  कार्यालयों  .
Before  बनने  President , Taft , a Republican , was selected  to  serve on the  श्रेष्ठ  Court of  सिनसिनाटी   in   1887  .
in  1890  ,  Taft was  नियुक्त   solicitor  General of  the  United States  और  in 1891 a  न्यायधीश   on  the United States Court of  appeals   लिये  the Sixth  सर्किट  .
in   1900  ,  अध्यक्ष   विलियम   mckinley  appointed Taft Governor-General of the Philippines  .
in  1904 , President Theodore Roosevelt appointed Taft  सचिव   of  War in an effort  to   दूल्हे  Taft , then  उसके  close  राजनैतिक  ally , into  उसके  handpicked  अध्यक्षीय  successor .
Taft assumed a  prominent  role in problem  solving   ,   assuming  on  कुछ   अवसरों  the role of acting  सचिव  of State  ,   जबकि   घटती  repeated offers  इससे   रूज़वेल्ट  to serve on the  परम्  Court .
Riding a wave  of   लोकप्रिय  support for  fellow  Republican  रूज़वेल्ट   ,  Taft  जीती   an  easy victory in his 1908  बोली   लिये  the presidency  .
In his only  पद   ,  Taft  's  domestic agenda emphasized  trust-busting   ,   सिविल   सेवा  reform  ,   strengthening  the  अंतरराज्यीय  Commerce  आयोग  ,  improving   the   प्रदर्शन  of  the   डाक  service , and  ड्योढ़ी  of the Sixteenth Amendment .
Abroad  ,  Taft  sought  to further  the   आर्थिक  development of nations  in  Latin  अमेरिका   और  Asia through  ``   डालर  Diplomacy `` , and showed decisiveness and  संयम   in  response to revolution in Mexico .
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to  the  political ramifications  of   उसके  decisions , often  alienated  his  अपना  key constituencies ,  और   थी   overwhelmingly  defeated in his bid  लिये  a  दूसरी  term in the presidential election of 1912  .
In  सर्वेक्षण  of presidential scholars  ,  Taft  is  usually ranked  निकट  the middle of lists of all American  राष्ट्रपतियों   .
After  leaving   दफ्तर  , Taft spent  उसके  time  in   academia  , arbitration , and the search for world  सलाम  through  उसके  self-founded  लीग  to Enforce Peace .
In 1921 ,  बाद   the   पहला   संसार  War  ,  President Warren G.  हार्डिंग  appointed Taft Chief Justice of the  संयुक्त  States .
Taft served in this capacity  जबतक   shortly  before his  मौत  in 1930  .
The Ten  आयतें  is a 1956 epic film  उत्पादित  and directed by Cecil B. DeMille that  dramatized  the biblical story  of   the   exodus  ,  in  which  the   hebrew-born  Moses , an adopted Egyptian  प्रिंस  , becomes the deliverer  of  the Hebrew slaves .
it  starred Charlton  हेस्टन   in   the  lead role , Yul Brynner as his adoptive brother , Pharaoh Rameses II , Anne Baxter as  nefretiri   ,   एडवर्ड  G.  रॉबिन्सन  as Dathan , Yvonne De Carlo  as   sephora  ,  डेबरा   पेजेट  as Lilia ,  और  John Derek  as  Joshua .
The supporting cast includes  सर  Cedric  hardwicke   as  Pharaoh  सेती  I ,  नीना  Foch as Bithiah , Martha  स्कॉट  as  yoshebel  , Judith  एंडरसन  as Memnet , Vincent Price  as   baka  ,  और   जॉन  Carradine as Aaron  .
The  फिल्मी   थी   released   by   सर्वोपरि  Pictures in VistaVision  on  October 5 ,  1956  .
The Ten Commandments , which DeMille  narrated   ,  was  the   पिछला  film  कि  he directed  .
he  was  नियत  to direct  the   1958   रीमेक  of his 1938 film The  buccaneer  , but his  फाइनल  illness forced him  to  relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law ,  कर्ता  Anthony  क्विन  .
DeMille had  भी   नियोजित  to  फिल्मी  the life of Lord Baden  पावेल   ,  the founder  of  the  स्काउट  movement , with  दाउद  Niven ;  इस   प्रोजेक्ट  was  never  realized  .
The Ten Commandments is a  आंशिक   रीमेक  of  demille  's 1923 silent film  .
कुछ  of  the   डाल  and crew of  the   1956   संस्करण   worked  on the original  .
It  रै  since  महरूम   remade  as a television  miniseries  broadcast  in  April  2006  .
the   टेन  Commandments is one of the most financially  कामयाब   films   कभी  made  ,  grossing  over  $ 65  लाख  at  the   u.S.   बक्सा  office .
Adjusting for  महंगाई  , this makes it the sixth  highest-grossing  film domestically ,  साथ  an  समायोजित   कुल  of $  1,025,730,000  in  2012  .
The box office  जालस्थल  ``  the  Numbers ''  सूचियाँ  the  घरेलू   सकल  at $ 80  लाख  .
In 1999  ,  The Ten Commandments was selected for preservation  in   the  United States National  फिल्मी  Registry by the  पुस्तकालयों  of  कॉंग्रेस  as  होने  `` culturally  ,  historically ,  or  aesthetically significant '' .
in  June 2008  ,  the American  फिल्मी  Institute  नाज़िल  its `` Ten Top  टेन   ``   —the  best  टेन  films in ten American  फिल्मी  genres—after polling over  1,500  people  इससे  the  रचनात्मक  community  .
The Ten Commandments was  सूचीबद्ध   as   the   दसवाँ  best film  in   the  epic  विधा  .
The  फिल्मी  received  सात   अकादमी  Award nominations including Best Picture ,  और  won  the   अकादमी  Award for  बेहतरीन  Visual  प्रभाव  .
Charlton  हेस्टन  was  मनोनीत  for a Golden  ग्लोब  Award for Best Motion  चित्र  Actor in the drama category .
Yul Brynner won  the   नेशनल   फलक  of Review Award  लिये  Best Actor for his role  as  Rameses  ,  along with  उसके  other roles in  the  King and I and Anastasia .
louisville  ( , or  )   is  a major city and the largest city in  the  U.S.  राज्य  of Kentucky and  the   काउंटी   सीट   of   जेफरसन  County .
Since  2003  , the  नगर  's borders have been with  those  of the county because of a  city-county  merger .
The city 's total  संचित  population  at  the 2010 census was 741,096  (  Louisville  's   संतुलन  total , 602,011 , excludes semi-autonomous towns  और   is  the population  सूचीबद्ध  in most sources and national  rankings  )  .
As of 2010  ,   the  Louisville metropolitan area ( MSA )  था  a population of 1,307,647 ranking  42nd  nationally  .
The metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson  काउंटी  and  12   surrounding  counties , eight in Kentucky and four in Southern Indiana ( see Geography below  )   .
The Louisville Combined  सांख्यिकीय  Area  ,  having a population  of  1,451,564 , includes  the   एमएसए  ,  hardin   काउंटी  and Larue County  in  Kentucky , and Scott County , Indiana .
An important internal shipping port in the 19th century , Louisville today is best known  as  the location of the Kentucky Derby , the first of three annual thoroughbred horse  दौड़   बनाना  up the Triple Crown .
A typical experimental setup for  an  aldol reaction  .
Both flasks are  submerged   in  a dry ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78 °C ) the temperature  of   जिससे  is being  monitored  by  a   तापयुग्म  (  the  wire on the  बाएँ   )  .
A cooling  नहाना  , in laboratory  रसायन  ( often but  नहीं  always  सशुल्क   रसायन  ) practice ,  is  a  द्रव   मिश्रण   जिससे  is used to maintain low temperatures , typically between 13 °C and  −196   °c  .
ये  low temperatures  हैं  used  to   collect  liquids  बाद  distillation  ,  to remove solvents using a rotary evaporator  ,  or to  perform  a chemical reaction below room temperature ( see :  गतिज  control  )  .
कूलिंग  baths are generally  एक  of  दो  types  :  ( a ) a  ठंडा  fluid ( particularly liquid nitrogen , water , or  भी  air  )   —  but  सबसे  commonly the  पद  refers to ( b  )  a mixture of 3 components :  (  1 )  a  cooling agent ( such as  शुष्क  ice  or  water ice ) ; ( b ) a liquid  'कैरीr  ' ( such  as  liquid  जल  , ethylene glycol , acetone , etc  .  )  ,  which transfers heat between the bath  और   the  vessel  ;   ;  and ( c )  an  additive to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid  प्रणाली   .
( A familiar example  of  this is  the  use of an ice/rock-salt mixture to  फ्रीज   बर्फ  cream .
The phase-change of  बर्फ  into liquid water requires energy  ,  'pulling ' heat  इससे   the  system  .
Adding  नमक  lowers  the   अस्थायी   at  which  इस   happens  ,  अर्थ  more energy has  to  be absorbed  इससे   the   पर्यावरण  in order to  melt  the ice  .
This effectively  makes  the ice  'colder  ' — it  जरूर  'pull ' more heat from  इसके  environment to become liquid . )
Eating disorders are  शर्तें  defined by  असामान्य  eating habits  कि  may involve either  अपर्याप्त  or excessive  खाना   सेवन   to  the detriment of an individual 's physical and  दिमागी   स्वास्थ्य  .
bulimia   नर्वोज़ा  and  एनोरेक्सिया  nervosa are  the   सबसे  common specific forms  in  the  संयुक्त   किंगडम  .
अन्य  types of  खाने  disorders include binge  खाने  disorder and eating disorder not otherwise  निर्दिष्ट  .
Bulimia  नर्वोज़ा  is a disorder characterized by binge eating and purging .
Purging can  शामिल  self-induce  उल्टी  , over-exercising , and the  उपयोग  of diuretics ,  enemas  ,  और  laxatives .
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by extreme  खाना   प्रतिबंध   to  the point of  self-starvation  and excessive weight  घाटा  .
हालांकि  primarily thought of as  affecting  females  (  an estimated 5–10  लाख  being  प्रभावित  in  the  U.K. ) , eating  विकार   affect  males as well .
An estimated 10  –  15 % of people with eating disorders are males (  गोर्गान  ,  1999  )  .
( an  अनुमानित  1 million  u.K.   males  being affected  )  .
Although eating disorders are increasing  सब   over  the world among both  मेन  and women , there is  प्रमाण   to  suggest  कि  it is women in the Western world  जो  are at the highest  रिस्क   of   विकासशील  them  और  the  उपाधि  of  westernization  increases the risk  .
Nearly half of all  अमेरिकी  personally know someone with an eating  विकार  .
The skill to comprehend the central  प्रक्रियाओं   of  appetite  रै   increased   tremendously  since leptin was  खोजा   ,   और  the skill to observe the functions  of   the  brain  as   खूब   .
Interactions between motivational  ,  homeostatic and  self-regulatory   कंट्रोल  processes are involved  in  eating  आचरण   ,  which  is  a  कुंजी  component in eating disorders .
The precise cause of eating disorders is not entirely  समझा  ,  लकिन   वहीँ  is evidence  कि   it  may  be   linked   to  other  चिकित्सा   शर्तें  and situations  .
Cultural  idealization  of thinness and youthfulness have  contributed   to  eating disorders affecting diverse populations .
One  पढ़ाई  showed that  लड़कियों  with ADHD have a  वृहद   मौका  of  getting   an   खाने  disorder  than   those  not affected by ADHD .
Another  पढ़ाई   सुझाया   कि  women with PTSD ,  विशेषकर   due  to sexually related  आघात  , are  अधिक  likely to  develop  anorexia  नर्वोज़ा  .
One study  दिखाया   कि  foster girls are more likely to  develop  bulimia nervosa  .
Some think that peer  दबाव  and  idealized  body-types seen  in  the media are  भी  a significant  फ़ैक्टर  .
कुछ   शोध  show  कि   लिये  certain  लोगों   वहीँ  are  जेनेटिक  reasons why they may  be  prone to developing an  खाने   विकार  .
हाल  studies have  मिला  evidence a correlation between  मरीजों   साथ   bulimia   नर्वोज़ा  and substance use disorders .
In addition , anxiety disorders  और  personality  विकार  are common  आवृत्ति  with  क्लाइंट  of eating disorders  .
जबकि  proper treatment can be  अत्यधिक   प्रभावी  for many suffering from  विशिष्ट  types of eating disorders  ,  the  consequences  of eating  विकार  can  be   कठोर  ,  सहित   मौत   (  whether from direct  चिकित्सा   प्रभाव   of  disturbed eating habits or from comorbid conditions such as suicidal thinking ) .
Slavery in  the  United  राज्य  existed from  the   जल्दी  years of the colonial period ; it was  firmly  established by the time  the   संयुक्त  States sought  स्वतंत्रता  from Great  ब्रिटेन  in  1776  .
however  , by 1804  ,  all  राज्य  north of the Mason and Dixon Line had  either  abolished slavery outright or passed laws for  the   क्रमिक  abolition of  गुलामी  .
in   1787  Congress prohibited slavery in the Northwest Territory  .
But  गुलामी  gained new life in the  दक्षिण   साथ  the  कपास   उद्योग  after 1800 ,  और  expanded into  the  Southwest .
The nation was polarized into  स्लेव  and free states  साथ   the  Mason-Dixon  लकीर  , which  अलग  Pennsylvania and Maryland  .
The United States and  ग्रेट  Britain both prohibited the international slave trade in 1808 , but the domestic trade ,  साथ  sales to the Deep South , expanded dramatically , and many  captives  were  shipped  by the  coastwise  slave trade .
Before the 1840s  ,  the South was vigorously  defending  slavery  और   इसके   विस्तार  into  the  territories .
In  the  North  कुछ  abolitionists denounced  it   as  sinful , and numerous anti-slavery forces rejected  it  as detrimental to the  अधिकारों   of  free  मेन  .
बाद  failed compromises and Abraham Lincoln 's election , in 1861  ग्यारह  slave states broke  दूर  to form the Confederate States  of   अमेरिका  , leading to  the  American  सिविल  War  .
the  federal  सरकारी  in 1862 made abolition of slavery a  युद्ध  goal .
In January  1863   अध्यक्ष   lincoln   freed  slaves  in  the Confederacy through the Emancipation Proclamation  .
After  the  war  ,  the  तेरहवीं  Amendment , effective December  1865  , abolished slavery throughout  the  entire  संयुक्त   राज्य   ,  including the  किनारा  states  और  the Indian territories .
From the  16th  to the  19th  centuries , an estimated 12 million Africans  यहूद  shipped as slaves to  the  Americas .
See Slavery in  the  Americas  .
The great majority went to the sugar plantations of the  वेस्ट  Indies  or  Brazil , where mortality was high .
About  645,000   यहूद   brought   to  what is now  the  United States .
By  the  1860 United States  जनसांख्यिकी   ,  the slave population  in  the American South  था  grown  to   चार  million  .
Of all 1,515,605 families in the 15 slave  राज्य   ,  nearly  400,000   आयोजित  slaves  (  roughly  एक  in four ) ,  amounting   to  8  %  of all  अमरीकी  families .
While  कुछ   स्लेव  worked  as  house servants  और  urban artisans , the great  बहुमत  worked on plantations or large farms ,  cultivating   lucrative  cash crops  ,  such as rice , tobacco ,  शुगर   और  , after  1800  , chiefly cotton  .
By  1860  most  स्लेव  were held  in   the  Deep South  ,   जहाँ   वे  served in work-gangs  ;   two-thirds   worked   in  cotton .
In small operations , they  worked  with  उनके   स्वामी  .
in   विशाल   बागानों  they were  निर्देशित  by  श्वेत  paid overseers .
Under  the  system  कि  became chattel slavery ( ownership of a human  होने  , and of  his/her  descendants ) , a  जातिगत  element was fundamental : slaves were blacks of African  descent  and owned ,  लगभग   universally  ,  by   whites  of European descent .
In the 17th century , Virginia  ,  followed by other southern colonies , enacted law that  children  of slave mothers were  born  into slavery .
Slaves could gain freedom only  by  running  दूर   (  which was difficult and illegal to do ) ,  or  by  manumission  by owners ,  जिससे   थी  regulated by states ,  और  became increasingly  मुश्किल   or   निषिद्ध   .
In the  earliest  era of chattel slavery  ,   the  colonies also  व्यवस्थित  work  by  a system of bonded labor known as indentured  servitude  .
इस  typically lasted for several years for both poor Europeans  और   africans   alike   ,   to  pay  बंद  the costs of  हस्तांतरण  to the  colonies   .
वे  contracted for such arrangements because  of   ग़रीब   economies  in their home countries .
Between  1680  and 1700  ,  as fewer Europeans migrated to  the  colonies ,  planters  began  to  import more Africans  as   स्लेव   .
Recognizing the importance of  गुलामी   ,   the   हाउस  of Burgesses in Virginia  enacted   a  new slave  कोड  in 1705 ; it combined a  किस्में  of legislation and added new provisions  enforcing  white supremacy in the  विधि  .
Schematic cross section of part  of  leaf  ,   जाइलम  shown as  रेड   वृत्त   at  figure 8 .
Xylem is one  of   the  two types of transport tissue  in   vascular  plants ( phloem is the other ) .
the  word  जाइलम  is derived from the Greek word  ξύλον  ( xylon ) ,  अर्थ  `` wood ''  ;   the  best-known  जाइलम  tissue is wood  ,  though it is found  throughout   the  plant .
Its basic function  is  to transport water , but it also  transports  some nutrients through the plant  .
इस  clock  प्रतिनिधित्व  shows  कुछ  of the  प्रमुख   इकाई  of geological time and  निर्णायक  events of  धरती   इतिहास  .
The Hadean eon  represents  the  समय  before  चट्टान  record of  जीवन  on  धरती  ; its upper boundary is now regarded as 4.0 Ga  (   अरब  years ago ) .
Other  subdivisions  reflect the evolution  of  life ;  the  Archean and Proterozoic are both eons , the Palaeozoic ,  mesozoic  and  cenozoic  are eras  of  the  phanerozoic  eon  .
the  two million  साल  Quaternary period ,  the   समय  of recognizable humans ,  is  too small to be visible at  इस  scale  .
the  geologic time  स्केल  is a system  of  chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy to  समय  ,  और   is  used by geologists  ,  paleontologists , and other earth scientists to describe the timing and relationships  between  events that have occurred  throughout  Earth 's history .
The table of  भूगर्भिक  time spans  प्रस्तुत  here agrees with the  तिथियाँ  and nomenclature  नियत  forth by the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   आयोग  on Stratigraphy standard  रंग  codes of  the  International Commission on Stratigraphy .
Evidence from radiometric  डेटिंग  indicates that  the  Earth is about 4.54  अरब  years old  .
The geology or deep  समय  of Earth 's past has  महरूम  organized  into  various  इकाई   according  to  कार्यक्रम  which took place in each period .
Different spans of  समय  on  the   gts  are  प्रायः   सीमांकित  by  परिवर्तन   in  the composition  of  strata which  correspond  to them , indicating major geological or paleontological  कार्यक्रम  , such as  द्रव्यमान  extinctions  .
For example  ,  the  boundary   between  the Cretaceous period and  the  Paleogene period is defined by the  cretaceous–paleogene   extinction  event  ,  which  चिह्नित  the demise of the dinosaurs  और  many other  समूह  of life  .
Older time  spans  which predate the  विश्वसनीय   चट्टान  record  (   पहले   the  Proterozoic  इओन  ) are defined by absolute age .
The TI-82 is a graphing  परिपथ   बना   by   टेक्सास   यंत्र  .
the   ti-82  was designed in 1993  as  a stripped down , more user  दोस्ताना  version of the  ti-85  , and as a replacement for the  ti-81  .
It was the direct  पूर्ववर्ती  of the TI-83  .
It shares with the TI-85 a  6   mhz  Zilog  z80  microprocessor  .
जैसे  the TI-81 , the TI-82 features  a   96x64  pixel display , and the core feature  नियत   of  the  ti-81  with  अनेक  new  सुविधाएँ  .
the  cast of  वर्ण   of   the  King of  सेनानी  XI  .
the   किंग   of  Fighters fighting game series , produced by SNK  playmore   ,  includes a wide  डाल  of characters , some of which  हैं  taken from other  snk  games  .
The story takes  प्लेस  in  a   fictional  universe in  जिससे  an  सालाना  series of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting  tournaments   हैं   आयोजित  .
The first  खेल  in  the   श्रेणी  introduces the initial  प्रमुख  character of  the   श्रेणी   ,  Kyo  kusanagi  , a young Japanese fighter who is the heir to a powerful group  of   martial  artists  having   pyrokinetic   abilities  .
kyo  fights against  the  Kusanagi clan 's  दुश्मनों  , his rival  iori  Yagami , and the god  orochi   और   इसके  human followers , among  अन्य   .
The first four games in the series revolve about these fights  ,   जबकि  The King of Fighters  '99  introduces a  नई   स्टोरी  arc  ,   घूमती  around K  '  , a young man who seeks to destroy  the  mysterious NESTS organization because  वे   kidnapped   उसे  at an early  आयु   और  stripped him of his  पास्ट   यादें   ,  so that they  could  force him to  be  a  सेनानी  under  उनके   कंट्रोल  .
In The  किंग  of Fighters 2003 ,  a  new character named Ash Crimson enters the  टूर्नामेंट  , to  चोरी   the  powers of the clans  जो   sealed   the  Orochi in  the   पास्ट   लिये  an unknown  कारण   .
a  new group of antagonists , known as  those  From the Past ,  भी  appears in the series  ;  they want  to  obtain Orochi 's power for the purpose  of  giving it to  उनके   अनजान   निपुण   .
the  plot  और  the  वर्ण  came from  the  Yamata  no  Orochi  लेजेंड   .
वहीँ  are also  अनेक   वर्ण   in  the  खेल  that are parodies or homages to  अनेक  popular anime ,  manga  , and  films  .
Merchandise based  on  the characters has also been released , including  कार्रवाई  figures and keychains  .
the   वर्ण  have garnered praise from several  वीडियो   खेल   publications  for the quality  of  their  डिजाइन  and movesets  .
टिप्पणी  focused on the lack of improvements  in   कुछ  of  the   वर्ण   ,  but  added  that  the  roster  is  greatly diverse .
Whale Wars  is   a  weekly American  documentary-style   वास्तविकता  television series that premiered  on   नवम्बर  7 ,  2008  on  the  Animal Planet  केबल   चैनल  .
The program  फ़ॉलो   पॉल  Watson , founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation  समाज  , as  he  and the crew aboard their  विभिन्न  vessels  harass   जापानी  whalers off the coast of  अंटार्कटिक  .
on  January 5  ,  2013 ,  एनिमल   ग्रह  renewed  the  series for a  छठे  season .
The Harpy Eagle  (  Harpia harpyja ) is a Neotropical  प्रजाति  of  त्रिभुज  .
It  is  sometimes known as the  अमरीकी  Harpy Eagle  to  distinguish  it  from the Papuan Eagle  जिससे  is sometimes  ज्ञात  as the New  गिनी  Harpy Eagle  or  Papuan Harpy Eagle .
It is  the  largest and most  शक्तिशाली  raptor  मिला  in the  americas  , and  among   the  largest extant species  of  eagles in the world .
It usually inhabits tropical  lowland  rainforests in the upper ( emergent ) canopy layer .
Destruction of its  प्राकृतिक   आवास  has seen it  vanish  from many parts of  इसके  former range , and it is nearly extirpated in Central  अमेरिका  .
Biological  वर्गीकरण  ,  or  scientific  वर्गीकरण  in biology , is a  विधि   of   वैज्ञानिक   taxonomy   प्रयुक्त  to  समूह  and  categorize   जीवों  into  समूह   ऐसे  as genus or species .
These groups  हैं   ज्ञात  as taxa ( singular : taxon  )  .
Modern biological classification has its root in the work  of  Carolus  लीनियस  , who grouped species  according  to  साझा  physical characteristics  .
These groupings have since  महरूम   संशोधित  to improve consistency with the  darwinian  principle of common descent .
साथ  the introduction of the  cladistic  method in  the  late 20th century ,  phylogenetic  taxonomy  in   जिससे  organisms are grouped based purely on inferred  विकासवादी   relatedness  , ignoring  morphological  similarity , has  become  common  in   कुछ   क्षेत्रों  of biology  .
Molecular phylogenetics , which uses DNA sequences  as  data  ,  has also driven many recent revisions and is  संभावित  to continue  doing  so  .
Biological classification  belongs  to the science  of   biological   systematics   .
Lennon  's  signature
John Winston Ono Lennon , ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 October  1940   –  8 December 1980  )  was an English  संगीतकार  ,  सिंगर  and songwriter who rose to worldwide  कीर्ति  as a  संस्थापक   सदस्य  of  the  Beatles , one  of  the most commercially  कामयाब   और  critically acclaimed acts  in   the  history  of   लोकप्रिय  music .
With Paul  mccartney   ,  he formed one of the  सबसे  celebrated songwriting partnerships of the 20th  सदी  .
born  and  उठाया   in  Liverpool ,  as  a teenager Lennon became involved in  the   skiffle   craze  ;  उसके  first band , the Quarrymen , evolved into the Beatles in 1960 .
As  the  group  disintegrated  towards the  समाप्त  of the decade ,  लेनन  embarked on  a   सोलो  career that produced  the  critically acclaimed  एल्बम   जॉन   lennon/plastic  Ono  बैंड  and Imagine  ,  and iconic songs such as  ``   दे  Peace a Chance ``  और   ``   imagine  ``  .
बाद  his marriage to  योको  Ono  in   1969  , he changed his  नाम   to  John Ono Lennon .
लेनन   disengaged   खुद  from the  म्यूज़िक  business in  1975  to devote time to raising his infant son Sean , but re-emerged with Ono  in  1980 with the new  एल्बम   दोगुना  Fantasy  .
He  थी  murdered three weeks after  इसके  release  .
Lennon revealed  a  rebellious nature and acerbic wit in  उसके  music ,  लिखने  ,  drawings  , on film and in interviews .
विवादास्पद   through  his political  और  peace activism , he moved to New  यॉर्क   नगर   in   1971  , where his  आलोचना  of the Vietnam War  resulted  in a lengthy attempt by Richard Nixon 's administration to  निर्वासन  him , while some of his songs were adopted  as  anthems  by   the  anti-war  गति  .
As of  2012  , Lennon 's  सोलो   एल्बम   बिक्री   in  the United States exceed 14  लाख   इकाई   ,   और   as  writer , co-writer or performer , he is responsible  लिये  25 number-one  singles   on  the US Hot 100 chart .
In 2002 ,  a  BBC poll on the 100 Greatest Britons voted  उसे  eighth ,  और  in 2008 , Rolling  स्टोन  ranked him the  fifth-greatest   सिंगर   of  all  समय   .
He  थी   मरणोपरांत  inducted into  the  Songwriters Hall  of  Fame  in  1987 and into the Rock and  फेंकें  Hall  of  Fame in 1994 .
प्रतिमा  of  rip  van  winkle  in Irvington  ,  New York  ,  not far from  ``  Sunnyside  ``  ,  the  home  of  Washington  इरविंग
`` Rip Van  winkle   ''  is a short story by American author  वॉशिंगटन   इरविंग  published  in  1819  ,  as  खूब   as   the  name of the  स्टोरी  's  fictional   समर्थक  .
लिखा  while Irving  थी   जीना  in Birmingham  ,  England  ,   it   थी  part of  a   संग्रहण  entitled The Sketch  किताब   of   geoffrey   crayon  .
हालांकि   the  story is set in New  यॉर्क  's Catskill Mountains ,  इरविंग  later admitted  ,  ``  जब   i  wrote  the  story , I  था  never  महरूम   on  the Catskills . ''
throughout  the fifty-five year  इतिहास  of the Grammy Awards  ,   अनेक  significant records  have  been  नियत  .
This page only includes the  प्रतिस्पर्धी   पुरस्कार  won by  विभिन्न   कलाकारों   .
This does not  शामिल   the  various special  पुरस्कार   कि  are presented by  the   नेशनल   अकादमी   of  Recording Arts and  sciences   ऐसे   as  Lifetime Achievement Awards  ,  Trustees Awards ,  तकनीकी  Awards  or  Legend  पुरस्कार   .
The  पेज  however  करता  include other non-performance related  grammys   (   ज्ञात   as   the  Craft &  उत्पादन  Fields )  कि  may  have   महरूम  presented to  the  artist ( s  )  .
Pee-wee Herman is  a  comic fictional character created and portrayed  by  American  हास्य  Paul Reubens .
He  is  best  ज्ञात   लिये  his two television series  और  film series  दौरान  the 1980s .
the  childlike Pee-wee Herman character  विकसित   as  a  स्टेज  act that  जल्दी  led to  an  HBO  खास   in  1981 .
as   the  stage  प्रदर्शन  gained further  लोकप्रियता  , Reubens  took   the   अक्षर   to  motion picture with Pee-wee  's  Big  एडवेंचर  in 1985  ,  toning  bas   the  adult  innuendo  for  the   अपील  of children .
इस  paved the way for Pee-wee 's  playhouse   ,  an Emmy Award winning children 's series that ran on CBS from 1986-1991 .
another  film  ,   बिग   शीर्ष   pee-wee   ,  was  released  in 1988 .
Due to negative media  ध्यान  following a scandal in 1991 , Reubens decided to shelve  उसके  alter ego during the 1990s  ,  and then  धीरे  resurrected it during the  following  decade  .
It was  at   कि  time that Reubens addressed plans  to  write a new Pee-wee  फिल्मी  , Pee-wee 's Playhouse :  the  Movie .
in  June 2007 , Reubens  appeared  as  pee-wee  Herman for the first  समय  since  1991   at   स्पाइक   tv  's Guys '  चुनाव   पुरस्कार  .
That '70s Show is  an  American television period  sitcom  that centers on the lives  of  a group  of  teenage  मित्रों  living in  the  fictional suburban town of Point Place ,  विस्कॉन्सिन  , from May 17 ,  1976   ,  to December 31 , 1979  .
it   debuted  on the Fox television network  ,   पहला   airing  on August 23 , 1998 ,  कार्यशील   लिये  eight  लगातार   सीज़न  , and concluding with the 200th episode on May 18  ,  2006  .
The  प्रमुख  teenage  डाल  members  यहूद   topher  Grace , Mila  kunis  ,  एश्टन   कूचर  , Danny Masterson ,  लौरा  Prepon  ,  and Wilmer  valderrama  .
The  प्रमुख  adult cast members were Debra Jo Rupp , Kurtwood Smith  ,  Don  स्टार्क   और   ,  during the  पहला  three seasons  ,   तान्या   रॉबर्ट्स   .
Kansas (  )  is a U.S.  राज्य  located in the  midwestern  United States .
it   is  named after  the  Kansas River  जिससे   बहती  through it ,  जिससे  in turn  थी  named after the Kansa  देशी  American  जनजाति  , which  inhabited  the area .
The tribe  's  name ( natively  kką  : ze  )  is  प्रायः   कहा  to mean `` people of  the   हवा   ''  or `` people of the south  हवा  , '' although this was  संभवतः  not the term 's  असली  meaning .
Residents of  कान्सास  are called  ``  Kansans . ''
For thousands of  सालो  what is  अभी  Kansas was  घर  to numerous  और  diverse Native American  जनजातियों  .
Tribes  in   the  Eastern part  of   the   राज्य   generally  lived  in  villages along the  नदी  valleys .
Tribes in the  पश्चिमी  part  of  the state were semi-  nomadic  and hunted  विशाल  herds  of  bison .
कान्सास  was first settled by  यूरोपीय  Americans  in   the   1830s  , but the pace of  उपनिवेश  accelerated in the 1850s , in the  midst   of   राजनैतिक   युद्धों  over the slavery issue .
When  officially  opened to settlement by  the  U.S. government  in  1854 , abolitionist Free-Staters from  नई   इंग्लैण्ड  and pro-slavery settlers from neighboring Missouri  rushed  to the  territory   to  determine  if  Kansas would become  a  free state  or  a slave  राज्य  .
Thus , the  क्षेत्रफल  was  a  hotbed  of  violence  और  chaos in  इसके  early days as these forces  collided  , and was  ज्ञात   as  Bleeding  कान्सास  .
The abolitionists eventually  prevailed   और  on  जनवरी   29  ,  1861   ,   कान्सास  entered the Union  as   a  free state .
बाद  the  सिविल  War ,  the  population of  कान्सास  grew  rapidly  , when waves of immigrants turned  the  prairie into  farmland   .
आज  ,  कान्सास  is one of the most  उत्पादक  agricultural states , producing high  yields  of wheat , sorghum  और   sunflowers  .
Kansas is the 15th most extensive  और  the 33rd most populous  of   the   50  United States  .
Psychology is  an  academic  और  applied discipline that involves  the  scientific study of mental functions  और  behaviors .
मनोविज्ञान   रै  the immediate goal  of  understanding individuals and groups by  दोनो  establishing  सामान्य   सिद्धान्त  and researching  विशिष्ट   मामले  , and  by  many accounts  it  ultimately aims to benefit society .
in  this field , a professional  or  researcher  is   पुकारा  a psychologist and can  be  classified as a social  ,  behavioral , or cognitive  वैज्ञानिक   .
Psychologists  attempt  to understand the role of mental functions in  व्यक्तिगत   और  social behavior , while  भी  exploring  the  physiological and neurobiological processes that  underlie  certain cognitive functions  और   व्यवहार   .
Psychologists explore  अवधारणाओं   ऐसे  as  बोध   ,   संज्ञान  ,  ध्यान   ,  emotion , phenomenology , motivation  ,  brain functioning ,  व्यक्तित्व  , behavior , and interpersonal relationships .
psychologists  of diverse stripes  भी   consider   the  unconscious  दिमाग  .
Psychologists employ empirical  विधि  to infer causal and  correlational  relationships between  psychosocial  variables .
In addition , or in opposition  ,  to employing empirical and  निगमनात्मक   विधि   ,  some—especially clinical and  counseling  psychologists—at times rely upon  सांकेतिक  interpretation  और   अन्य  inductive  तकनीकों  .
मनोविज्ञान   रै  been described as a ``  हब  science  ''   ,  with psychological  निष्कर्षों   linking  to  शोध  and perspectives from the social sciences ,  प्राकृतिक  sciences  ,  medicine ,  और   the   मानवता  ,  ऐसे   as   दर्शनशास्त्र   .
जबकि   मनोवैज्ञानिक  knowledge  is   प्रायः   लागू  to  the  assessment and treatment of  दिमागी   स्वास्थ्य  problems , it is also directed towards  समझना   और   solving  problems in many different  spheres   of  human  कार्यकलाप  .
the  majority of psychologists are involved in some  दयालु  of therapeutic role , practicing in clinical ,  counseling  , or  स्कूल   जमावट  .
Many do scientific  शोध  on a  चौड़ी  range of topics related  to  mental processes and behavior ,  और  typically  कार्य  in university psychology departments or  सिखा   in   अन्य   अकादमिक  settings ( e.g.  ,   चिकित्सा   स्कूलों  , hospitals  )  .
कुछ  are  employed  in industrial  और   organizational  settings , or in other areas such as  इंसान   विकास  and aging , sports , health  ,   और  the media  ,  as  खूब   as   in   forensic  investigation and other aspects of law .
थामस  Jefferson  (  April 13  ,  1743 ( April  2  , 1743  o.S.  ) – July 4 , 1826 ) was an American Founding Father ,  the   प्रिंसिपल  author of the Declaration  of  Independence ( 1776 )  और  the third President of the United States (  1801–1809   )  .
at  the  शुरूआत  of  the  American  क्रान्ति  ,  he  served in  the  Continental Congress  ,   representing   वर्जिनिया  and  तब  served as  a  wartime Governor of Virginia ( 1779–1781 )  .
Just after  the  war ended ,  इससे  mid-1784 Jefferson served  as   a  diplomat  ,  stationed  in  Paris .
In  may  1785 ,  he   became   the  United States Minister to France .
जेफरसन   थी   the  first United States Secretary  of  State (  1790–1793  )  सेवारत  under  अध्यक्ष   जार्ज  Washington .
With  उसके  close friend  जेम्स  Madison he organized the Democratic-Republican Party ,  और  subsequently resigned from Washington 's cabinet .
Elected Vice  अध्यक्ष  in  1796  , when he came  in  second to John Adams of the  federalists   ,  Jefferson  opposed  Adams and  साथ  Madison secretly  लिखा   the   केंटकी   और  Virginia Resolutions , which attempted  to  nullify the Alien and  राजद्रोह  Acts  .
Elected  अध्यक्ष   in  what Jefferson called the Revolution of 1800 , he  oversaw   the  purchase  of  the vast  louisiana  Territory  इससे  France ( 1803 ) ,  और  sent the Lewis and  क्लार्क  Expedition ( 1804–1806  )  to explore the  नई  west .
His second term was beset with troubles  at  home  ,   ऐसे  as  the  failed treason trial of his former  वाइस  President  आरोन  Burr .
With escalating trouble with  ब्रिटेन  who was challenging  अमरीकी  neutrality and threatening shipping at sea , he tried economic warfare with his  embargo  laws which only damaged American trade .
in  1803  ,   अध्यक्ष  Jefferson initiated a  प्रक्रम  of Indian tribal removal and  relocation  to the Louisiana Territory west  of   the  Mississippi River  ,  in order to  खोलें  lands for  eventual   अमरीकी  settlers  .
A leader in the Enlightenment , Jefferson  थी  a  बहुश्रुत  who  spoke   पाँच  languages  धड़ल्ले  and  थी  deeply interested in science , invention , architecture ,  धर्म  and philosophy , interests that  led  him  to  the founding of the University of Virginia after  उसके  presidency .
He designed  उसके   अपना   विशाल  mansion on a 5,000 acre plantation  निकट  Charlottesville  ,  Virginia ,  जिससे  he  नामित  Monticello .
While not  a   notable  orator , Jefferson  थी  a skilled writer and corresponded  साथ   अनेक  influential people in America and  यूरोपीय  throughout his adult  जीवन  .
हालांकि   जेफरसन  owned many  स्लेव  , he  opposed  the institution  सब   उसके  life  और  consequently  treated  and took care of them very well and  अपेक्षित  them to work  no   अधिक  than free  किसानो  .
Since 1802 historians  और  others  have  been divided  over  the controversy of whether Jefferson  थी  the  पिता  of one or  अधिक  children belonging to Sally Hemings  ,  a slave at Monticello . ''
इतिहासकारों  are also in disagreement  साथ  how  much  Jefferson was committed  to  the anti-slavery cause .
In 1807 , President Jefferson signed into law a  विधेयक  that  बैन  the importation  of  slaves  into  the United States  .
After Martha Jefferson  ,   उसके  wife of eleven years  ,  died in 1782 ,  जेफरसन   remained  a  विधुर  for the rest of  उसके   जीवन  ; their marriage produced  छह  children , of whom two survived to adulthood .
Though Jefferson has been criticized  by  many  आधुनिक   दिन  scholars over the issue  of  slavery ,  he   remains  rated as one  of   the  greatest U.S. presidents .
`` Sun  नगर  ''  is  a  1985  protest song written by  स्टीवन  Van Zandt , produced  by  Van Zandt and Arthur Baker and recorded by  कलाकारों   संयुक्त  Against Apartheid to convey opposition  to  the South African policy  of  apartheid .
The  प्राथमिक   अर्थात्  of that opposition  is   to  declare that all the  कलाकारों  involved would refuse any and all offers to perform  at  Sun City , a resort which was located in Bantustan  of  Bophuthatswana , one of a  क्रमांक  of internationally  अपरिचित  supposed `` independent  ''   राज्य  created by the South African government to forcibly relocate its black population .
This page is  a  list of characters in  the  Police  अकादमी  film and television  श्रेणी  .
Bill Russell won 11 championships  साथ  the Boston Celtics .
This is a  सूची  of NBA  खिलाड़ी  with most championships  जीती  as  a  player .
The  नेशनल  Basketball  संघ  ( NBA  )   is  a  प्रमुख  professional  बास्केट   लीग  in North  अमेरिका   .
It was founded in 1946 as the Basketball  संघ  of America ( BAA  )  .
The league adopted  इसके   वर्तमान  name at  the  start  of  the  जब  it merged  साथ   the  National Basketball League  (  NBL ) .
The  एनबीए  Finals  is   the  championship  श्रेणी  for  the   एनबीए  and the  निष्कर्ष   of   the  sport  's   postseason  .
The winning team of the series receives the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy .
Players from the winning  टोली  usually receive  चैंपियनशिप  rings  इससे   the  team honoring  उनके  contribution .
However , in some rare  अवसर  , the teams opted to gave other commemorative items , such as wrist watches , instead  of  rings .
the  number  of  championships won by NBA superstars  is  often  प्रयुक्त  as a  मापन   of   उनके  greatness  .
बोस्टन  Celtics  बीच  Bill Russell holds  the  record for the  सबसे  NBA championships  जीती  with 11 titles during his 13-year playing career  .
He  जीती  his  पहला   चैंपियनशिप  with the Boston Celtics in his  रुकी  year .
Afterwards ,  he  went  on  to win 10 championships  in   the  next 12  सालो  , including  आठ  consecutive championships from  1959   to   1966  .
He  जीती  the  पिछला   दो  championships in 1968 and  1969  as  player-coach   .
Russell  's  teammate ,  sam  Jones , won  10  championships from 1959 to  1969  ,  the  second  सबसे  in  एनबीए  history  .
Four  सेल्टिक्स  players , Tom Heinsohn  ,  K.  C.  Jones ,  satch  Sanders and  जॉन  Havlicek  ,  won eight championships  प्रत्येक  .
Two other Celtics , Jim Loscutoff  और   फ़्रैंक  Ramsey , won  सात  championships each .
चार   खिलाड़ी  ,  bob  Cousy  ,  Kareem Abdul-Jabbar  ,  Michael Jordan and  scottie  Pippen  ,  won six  championships  each .
Jordan  और   pippen  are members  of  the Chicago Bulls  टोली   जो   जीती  three consecutive championships  twice  in  the   1990s  .
Robert Horry and John Salley are  the  only players to have  जीती  the championships  साथ   तीन  different teams .
Horry won seven championships with the  ह्यूस्टन  Rockets  ,  the Los Angeles Lakers  और  the San  अंतोनियो   स्पर्स   ,   जबकि  Salley won four championships  साथ  the Detroit Pistons , the Bulls and the  लेकर्स   .
Frank Saul and Steve Kerr  हैं  the  तभी   खिलाड़ी  to win  दो   championships  with two different  टीमों   in  consecutive seasons .
Saul won consecutive championships  साथ   the   रोचेस्टर  Royals and the Minneapolis  लेकर्स   in  the 1950s  ,  while  केर  won consecutive championships with the Bulls and the Spurs in  the   1990s,
Accuracy  indicates  proximity of  मापन  results to the true value , precision to the repeatability , or reproducibility of the measurement
In the  फ़ील्ड   of  science  ,   अभियान्त्रिकी  ,  उद्योग  , and statistics , the accuracy  of  a  मापन  system is the degree of closeness of measurements of a quantity to that quantity 's actual  (  true )  मान   .
the   परिशुद्धता   of  a measurement system , also called reproducibility  or  repeatability  ,  is the degree  to   जिससे  repeated measurements under unchanged  शर्तें  show the  वही  results  .
हालांकि  the  दो  words reproducibility and repeatability can  be   synonymous  in colloquial use , they  हैं  deliberately contrasted  in  the context of  the  scientific method .
A measurement  प्रणाली   can   be  accurate but not precise , precise but not accurate ,  neither   ,  or  दोनो  .
लिये  example , if  an  experiment contains a systematic error  ,  then  increasing  the sample size generally increases precision but does not improve accuracy .
The  परिणाम   होता  be  a  consistent yet inaccurate string of results  इससे  the  flawed  experiment .
Eliminating  the  systematic error improves accuracy but does  नहीं   बदलें   परिशुद्धता  .
a  measurement system  is  designated  मान्य  if it is both  सटीक  and  precise   .
Related terms include bias  (  non- random or directed effects  caused   by  a factor or factors unrelated  to  the independent variable  )  and error  (  random  variability  ) .
The terminology is also  लागू   to  indirect measurements—that is , values obtained  by  a  कम्प्यूटेशनल   कार्यविधि  from observed  आंकड़ा  .
in   जोड  to accuracy and  परिशुद्धता  , measurements  may  also have  a  measurement  रेज़ोल्यूशन  , which  is  the smallest change in the underlying physical  मात्रा  that produces a response in the measurement .
In the case of  पूरा  reproducibility ,  ऐसे  as when  rounding  a number to a representable floating point number  ,  the  शब्द  precision has a meaning not related to  reproducibility  .
For example  ,   in  the IEEE  754-2008   मानक  it means the number  of   बिट्स  in  the  significand  ,   so  it is used as a measure  लिये  the relative  सटीकता  with which an  मनमानी   क्रमांक  can  be  represented .
Fuck  in   इसके  literal meaning refers to the  अधिनियम   of  sexual intercourse .
It is  an  English word  कि  is  प्रायः  used  as  a profanity , either to denote  तिरस्कार   or  as  an  intensifier .
the   उत्पत्ति  of the word  is  obscure  .
It  is   प्रायः  considered  to  be first  attested  to around  1475  , but it may be  considerably  older .
In modern usage , fuck  और   इसके   डेरिवेटिव  ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be used in the position  of  a  संज्ञा   ,  a verb  ,  an adjective or an  क्रियाविशेषण  .
वहीँ   हैं  many  आम  phrases  जिससे  make  उपयोग  of the word , as  खूब  as a number of compounds incorporating  it  , such as motherfucker  .
एनिमेटेड   ,  color-coded  मैप  showing the various continents  और   regions  .
Depending  on  the convention  और  model ,  कुछ  continents  may  be consolidated or subdivided : for example , Eurasia is  सबसे   प्रायः  subdivided into Europe and Asia ( red  शेड्स  ) ,  जबकि  North and South America are sometimes recognized as one American continent (  ग्रीन  shades  )   .
a  continent  is  one  of  several very large landmasses on  धरती  .
They are generally  पहचाना  by  सम्मेलन  rather than any strict criteria , with up to seven regions  commonly  regarded as continents—they  हैं   (  from largest in  आकार  to smallest ) : Asia  ,  Africa , North America  ,  South  अमेरिका  ,  अंटार्कटिक  , Europe  ,  and Australia .
In geology , continents are described by  अर्थात्  of tectonic plates .
थाली  tectonics is the process and study of the  गति   ,  collision  और  division of continents  ,  earlier  ज्ञात  as  महाद्वीपीय  drift  .
Biker Boyz  is  a  2003   फिल्मी  about  a  group of  भूमिगत  motorcycle drag  racers  .
it   सितारों  Laurence Fishburne ,  djimon  Hounsou , Derek Luke , Meagan Good  ,  and  larenz   टेट  and is written and directed by Reggie  चट्टान   bythewood  .
It  भी  features Lisa Bonet ,  ऑरलैंडो  Jones ,  बच्चा   चट्टान  and  वैनेसा  Bell Calloway  .
लिये  the Steel Panther song , see Feel the Steel  .
Community property  is  a marital  प्रॉपर्टी  regime  कि  originated  in   सिविल  law jurisdictions and is now also found in  कुछ   आम  law  jurisdictions   .
The states  of  the United States that  recognize  community property are primarily in the  वेस्ट  ; it  थी  inherited from Mexico 's ganancial community system  ,   जिससे  itself was inherited from Spanish law (  a  Roman -derived  सिविल   विधि  system ) and ultimately from  the  Visigoths  .
जबकि  under Spanish rule  louisiana  adopted  the   ganancial  community  प्रणाली  of acquests and gains , which replaced the  परंपरागत  French  जातियाँ  of movables  और  acquests in its civil law  प्रणाली   .
Map of  the   संयुक्त  States  साथ  community  प्रॉपर्टी   राज्य  highlighted in red .
In  जोड   to   the  highlighted  राज्य  , Alaska  is  a  पृथक  property state that  permits  couples  to   ऑप्ट  into a community property arrangement .
In  a  community property jurisdiction ,  सबसे   प्रॉपर्टी  acquired during  the   विवाह   (  except for gifts or inheritances  )   —the  community , or communio  bonorum—is  owned  jointly  by  दोनो   spouses   और  is  विभाजित  upon  तलाक  ,  annulment   or  death .
संयुक्त   स्वामित्व   is  automatically  presumed  by law in the  अनुपस्थिति   of  specific evidence that would point to a contrary conclusion for a particular  टुकड़ा   of  property .
Division of community property may  लो  place by item , by splitting all items  or  by value .
In  कुछ   jurisdictions   ,  such as  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , a 50/50  प्रभाग   of  community property  is  strictly mandated by  statute   ,   अर्थ  that the  फ़ोकस  then shifts to whether particular items are to be classified as community or separate property  .
In other jurisdictions ,  ऐसे   as  Texas  ,  a divorce court may decree an `` equitable  वितरण  ``  of  community  प्रॉपर्टी  , which  may   परिणाम   in  an unequal  प्रभाग  of such .
In  non-community  property states property  may  be divided by  निष्पक्ष  distribution .
Generally  बोलना   ,  the property that each partner  brings  into the marriage or receives  by  gift , bequest or  मक्कारी  during marriage is called separate  प्रॉपर्टी   (  i.e.  ,  not community property ) .
देखिए  division of property .
Division of community  debts  may not be the same as  प्रभाग  of  जातियाँ  property  .
For example , in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ,  जातियाँ   प्रॉपर्टी   is  required to  be  divided `` equally '' while community  कर्ज़   is  required to be divided ``  equitably   ''  .
प्रॉपर्टी   कि   is  owned  by  one spouse  पहले   the  marriage is the separate property of that  जीवनसाथी  , unless  the  property is `` transmuted '' into community  प्रॉपर्टी  .
The  नियम  for this vary from  क्षेत्राधिकार  to jurisdiction .
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge waving to  the  crowd  at  The Mall shortly  बाद  the  विवाह  .
The wedding  of  Prince William , Duke of  कैम्ब्रिज  , and Catherine Middleton took  प्लेस   on  29  अप्रैल  2011 at Westminster Abbey in London .
The groom  ,  Prince William ,  ड्यूक  of  कैम्ब्रिज  ,  is   the  eldest  बेटे  of Charles ,  प्रिंस   of   वेल्स  , and is second in  the  line of  उत्तराधिकार  to the British Throne  और   the   तख्तों  of  पंद्रह   अन्य  Commonwealth  realms   .
The bride  ,  Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is the eldest  of  three  children   of  Michael and Carole  मिडलटन  of Bucklebury , Berkshire .
the  Dean of Westminster ,  जॉन  Hall  ,  presided  at  the service ; the Archbishop of  canterbury   ,   rowan  Williams  ,  conducted the  विवाह  ;  रिचर्ड  Chartres  ,  the Bishop of  लंदन  , preached  the  sermon ;  और   a  reading was given by  the  bride  's   bhai  , James .
विलियम  's best man was his  bhai  ,  प्रिंस  Harry , while the  बहू  's  सिस्टर  , Pippa ,  थी  maid of honour .
The ceremony was attended  by   the  bride 's and groom 's families  ,  as well  as  many foreign  रॉयल्स  , diplomats , and the couple 's chosen  निजी   अतिथि   .
After  the  ceremony ,  the  couple  बना  the traditional appearance on  the   बालकनी  of Buckingham Palace .
As Prince William was not the heir apparent  to  the throne , the wedding  थी  not a  पूरा  state occasion and  अनेक   विवरण  were left  to  the couple  to  decide , such as much of  the  guest list  of  about 1,900 .
Prince William  और  Kate Middleton met in  2001  .
उनके  engagement  on  20 October 2010 was announced on 16 November 2010 .
The build-up  to  the wedding  और  the occasion itself attracted much media attention  ,  being  compared   in  many ways  साथ  the 1981 marriage of William  's  parents .
The  अवसर  was  a  public holiday  in  the  संयुक्त  Kingdom and  प्रदर्शित   अनेक  ceremonial aspects , including use of the state  carriages   और  roles for the Foot Guards and Household Cavalry .
Events  यहूद  held around  the   राष्ट्रमंडल  to mark the wedding  ;  organisations and hotels held events across Canada , over  5,000  street parties  यहूद  held throughout  the   संयुक्त   किंगडम  ,  और  one million people lined  the  route between  वेस्टमिंस्टर   ऐबी  and  बकिंघम  Palace .
the  ceremony was  viewed  live  by  tens of millions more around  the  world , including 72 million  on   the  YouTube Royal Channel .
In the United Kingdom ,  टेलीविज़न  audiences peaked at 26.3 million viewers  ,  with  a  total of 36.7  लाख  watching part of the coverage .
Vanessa  आनन्द  Lachey (  née  Minnillo ; born November 9  ,  1980 ) is  an  American  टेलीविज़न  personality , television host ,  फ़ैशन   मॉडल  ,  और  actress .
Minnillo was  भी  named Miss  टीन   यूएसए   in  1998 .
वो  has been a New York -based  correspondent  for Entertainment Tonight  और  hosted Total Request Live on  एमटीवी   .
A hand (  मेड  . / lat . : manus  ,   pl   .  manūs ) is a prehensile , multi-  fingered  extremity  स्तिथ  at the  समाप्त   of   an  arm or forelimb  of  primates and  इंसानो  ,  chimpanzees  , monkeys  ,  and  lemurs  .
a  few  अन्य  vertebrates such as the  कोआला  ( which has two opposable thumbs on  प्रत्येक   ``  hand '' and fingerprints remarkably  समान  to human  फिंगरप्रिंट   )   हैं   प्रायः  described as having either ``  हैंड्स   ''  or  ``  paws  ''  on their  सामने  limbs .
Hands  हैं  the main structures for physically manipulating the environment  ,  used for both gross  मोटर   कौशल   (   ऐसे  as  grasping  a large object ) and fine motor skills  (  such  as  picking up a small pebble  )  .
the  fingertips contain some of  the  densest  क्षेत्रों  of nerve endings  on  the body , are  the  richest source  of  tactile feedback  ,  and have  the   महानतम  positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense  of   टच  is intimately associated  साथ  hands  .
Like other  युग्म   अंगों  (  आँखें  , feet , legs ) , each hand is  dominantly  controlled  by  the opposing brain hemisphere , so that handedness , or the preferred  हाथ   चुनाव  for  single-handed  activities  ऐसे  as writing with a  पेंसिल   ,  reflects  व्यक्तिगत  brain functioning .
Some evolutionary  anatomists  use  the  term hand to  refer  to the appendage of digits  on  the forelimb more generally — for example  ,  in the context of  whether  the three  अंक   of   the  bird hand involved the same  समजात   घाटा  of two digits  as  in the  डायनासोर  hand .
The  इंसान   हाथ  has 27 bones , not including the  sesamoid  bones which number varies between people .
14 of which are the phalanges  (   proximal  , intermediate  और  distal  )  of the fingers  .
The  metacarpals   हैं   the   हड्डियों  that connects  the  fingers and the wrist .
Each  इंसान   हाथ  has 5 metacarpals and 8 carpal bones .
too  Cool  थी  a professional wrestling tag team and former  गुट  most notably active  in  World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment  between  1998  और  2001  और  for  a   छोटी  time  in  2004  .
Basic digital alarm clock without a  रेडियो  .
The mark  in  the top-left of the display indicates that  the  time  is  4:00pm , not 4:00am .
a  1969 radio  सचेतक  clock (  सोनी   digimatic  8FC-59W ) with an  जल्दी  mechanical-digital  प्रदर्शक  .
A digital clock is  a  type of  क्लॉक  that displays the time digitally , i.e  .  in numerals or other symbols ,  as  opposed to an analog clock ,  जहाँ  the time is indicated by the positions  of  rotating  हैंड्स  .
Digital  घड़ियाँ   हैं   प्रायः  associated  साथ   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   ड्राइव  , but the  ``  digital '' description refers  तभी  to the display , not to the drive mechanism  .
( Both  एनालॉग   और  digital  घड़ियाँ   can   be  driven either  mechanically  or electronically  ,   लकिन  `` clockwork '' mechanisms with  डिजिटल  displays are rare . )
The biggest digital clock  is  the Lichtzeitpegel ( `` Light Time  स्तर  '' ) on the  टेलीविज़न  tower Rheinturm Düsseldorf ,  जर्मनी   .
Family Guy creator  सेठ  MacFarlane also provides  the  voices of Peter Griffin , Stewie Griffin  ,   ब्रायन   griffin   ,  and Glenn Quagmire .
Family  guy  is  an  American animated sitcom that  सुविधाएँ  five main voice actors ,  और   numerous  regular cast and recurring  अतिथि  stars .
the  principal voice  डाल  consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane  ,   एलेक्स  Borstein , Seth Green , Mila Kunis ( who  replaced  Lacey Chabert after the  पहला  season )  और   माइक  Henry  और   अभी  , the new actor  beau  Osborne .
Recurring  आवाज़   अभिनेताओं   शामिल  Patrick Warburton  ,  Adam  वेस्ट   ,   जॉन  G. Brennan , Nicole  सुलीवान  and Jennifer Tilly ,  और   repeat   अतिथि  stars include Phyllis Diller  ,  Charles Durning ,  फटाफट  Limbaugh , and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast  सदस्यों   provide   आवाज़ें  for  अनेक  characters  .
the  voice actors , in  portraying  the various  अक्षर   personalities  on the  दिखाएँ  ,  चित्रण  inspiration from celebrities  और   पॉप   संस्कृति  .
परिवार  Guy characters have been  निभाई  by more  than  one actor  ,  after members of the show left the  श्रेणी  or had  conflicting  obligations .
Kunis was nominated  लिये  an Annie Award for voicing Meg  griffin  in the season 5 episode `` Barely  विधिक  `` and MacFarlane  रै  also won an  एमी  Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and  an  Annie  पुरस्कार   लिये  Best Voice  एक्टिंग  in an Animated  टेलीविज़न   उत्पादन   ,  though  no  other cast member  रै  won an  पुरस्कार  for their  कार्य   on  the series .
The  पाँच  sets of the board  खेल   एकाधिकार   चित्रित  here  दिखाएँ   the  evolution of the  खेल  's artwork  और  designs  in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य   इससे  1935–2005 .
The history of the  फलक  game Monopoly  can  be  traced   वापस  to the early 20th century .
The  earliest   ज्ञात   डिज़ाइन  was by the American  ,   एलिज़ाबेथ  Magie , patented in  1904   लकिन  existing as  जल्दी  as  1902   .
Magie 's original intent was to publish  a  board game to illustrate an  आर्थिक  principle  ,   namely  the  georgist   अवधारणा   of  a single land value  कर  .
a  series  of  board games  यहूद  developed from  1906  through  the   1930s  that involved the  खरीदे   और  selling of land and  the  development of that land .
by  1934 , a board game had  महरूम   निर्मित  much  जैसे  the  संस्करण   of  Monopoly  बेची  by Parker Brothers  और  its related companies through  the  rest of the 20th  सदी  , and into  the  21st .
अनेक   लोगों  , mostly in the  midwestern  United  राज्य  and near the East Coast , contributed to the game 's design and evolution  .
By the 1970s , the idea  कि   the  game had been created  solely   by  Charles Darrow had become popular folklore ;  it   थी  printed  in  the game 's instructions for many years ,  in  a 1974 book devoted to Monopoly ,  और   थी  cited in a general book  परिचय  toys  भी   as  recently as 2007 .
भी   a   मार्गदर्शिका  to family  खेल  published  लिये  Reader  's   डाइजेस्ट   in  2003 only  दिया   क्रेडिट  to Darrow and Elizabeth Magie  ,  erroneously stating that Magie 's original game was created in  the   1800s  , and not  acknowledging   कोई   of  the  खेल  's development between Magie  's   सृष्टि  of the game  ,  and the  eventual  publication  by  Parker Brothers .
Also in  the  1970s ,  प्राध्यापक  Ralph Anspach  ,  who had himself published a  फलक   खेल   intended  to illustrate  the   सिद्धान्त   of   दोनो  monopolies and trust busting ,  लड़ा  Parker  भाइयो  and its then parent company  ,  General Mills ,  over  the  trademarks  of the Monopoly  फलक   खेल   .
Through the research of  anspach  and others  ,  much of the early history of the game was `` rediscovered '' .
Anspach  confronted   maxine  Brady  ,   लेखक  of the  1974  book The Monopoly  किताब  : Strategy and  tactics  of the  संसार  's Most Popular  खेल  over the  वास्तविक  history of the game on  बैरी  Farber 's New York  नगर  talk show in  1975  .
Because of the  lengthy  court  प्रक्रम  , including appeals , the legal status of  पार्कर   भाइयो   '   trademarks  on the  खेल  was not  settled  until 1985  .
The game 's name remains  a  registered  ट्रेडमार्क  of Parker  भाइयो  ,  as   do  its  विशिष्ट  design elements .
at  the conclusion  of   the  court case  ,  the game  's  logo and  ग्राफिक   डिज़ाइन  elements  became  part of a  larger   एकाधिकार  brand , licensed by  पार्कर   भाइयो  '  जनक  companies onto  a  variety  of  items through  the  present day .
Despite the  ``   rediscovery  '' of the board  खेल  's early history in  the  1970s  और  1980s , and  अनेक  books and journal articles on  the   विषय  ,  हास्ब्रो   (   पार्कर  Brothers '  वर्तमान  parent company ) did not acknowledge any of the game 's  इतिहास  before Charles Darrow on its  आधिकारिक  Monopoly  जालस्थल  as recently as  जून   2012   .
Nor  किया   हास्ब्रो   acknowledge  anyone other than  darrow  in  सामग्री  published  or  sponsored  by  them  ,  at least as  recently  as  2006  .
International tournaments , first held  in  the  जल्दी   1970s  , continue to the present  ,   साथ  the next  संसार  championship likely  अनुसूचित  for 2013 .
starting  in 1985 ,  a  new generation of spin-off board  खेल  and card  खेल  appeared on both  पहलू  of the  अटलांटिक  Ocean .
In 1989 , the  पहला  of many video game and computer game editions was published  .
Since 1994  ,  many  आधिकारिक   विसंगतियाँ  of the  खेल  , based on locations  अन्य  than  अटलांटिक  City , New Jersey  (  the official U.S. setting  )   or  London  (   the   आधिकारिक  Commonwealth setting , excepting Canada ) , have  महरूम   प्रकाशित   by  Hasbro or  इसके  licensees .
In  2008  ,  हास्ब्रो  permanently changed  the  color scheme and  कुछ  of the  gameplay   of   the  standard U.S .  संस्करण  of the game to match  the  UK  संस्करण  ,  हालांकि  the  u.S.  standard edition maintains  the   अटलांटिक  City property names .
Hasbro also  परिवर्धित  the official  लोगो  to give the `` Mr  .  Monopoly '' character a 3-D computer-generated look ,  जिससे   रै  since been adopted by  licensees  USAopoly , Winning Moves and Winning  समाधान   .
And Hasbro  रै  also been including the Speed Die , introduced in 2006 's  एकाधिकार   :   the  Mega Edition by Winning Moves Games  ,  in versions  उत्पादित  directly by  हास्ब्रो  ( such as the 2009  चैंपियनशिप  Edition ) .
In baseball  ,   a  sacrifice fly  is  a batted  बॉल  that satisfies  चार  criteria:
There are fewer than two outs when the ball is hit .
The ball is  hit  to the outfield ( fair or  बेईमानी   )  , or to infield  बेईमानी  territory  .
The batter is put  आउट  because an outfielder ( or  an  infielder  कार्यशील  in the  आउटफील्ड  , or foul territory ) catches the ball  on  the fly ( alternatively if the batter  होता   have  been  आउट   if  not  लिये  an  गलती  or  if  the outfielder drops  the  ball and another  धावक  is put out ) .
a  runner who is already on base scores  on  the play .
It is  पुकारा  a  ``   बलिदान   ''   मक्खी  because the  बैटर  presumably intends to  कारण   a  teammate to score a run  ,  while  sacrificing  his own ability to do so .
Minnesota  (  ) is a U.S. state  स्तिथ   in  the Midwestern United States .
Minnesota  थी  carved  आउट  of the eastern  हाफ   of  the Minnesota Territory  और  admitted to the Union as the  32nd  state on May 11 , 1858 .
Known  as   the  `` Land of  10,000  Lakes '' , the state  's   नाम  comes from  a   डकोटा  word  लिये   ``  sky-tinted water '' .
those  waters  ,  together with  वनों   ,   पार्क  ,  और   wilderness  areas  ,  offer  निवासियों  and tourists a variety of  बाहरी  recreational opportunities  .
Minnesota is the  12th  most extensive and the 21st most  populous  of the U.S.  राज्य   .
Nearly 60 % of  इसके  residents live in  the  Minneapolis–Saint  पॉल   महानगर   क्षेत्रफल  ( known as the `` Twin  शहरों   ''   )  ,  the   बीच  of transportation , business  ,  industry , education , government and home to an internationally  ज्ञात   कला  community  .
The remainder of  the  state consists of western prairies now given  over   to  intensive  कृषि   ;  deciduous forests in the southeast , now  साफ  , farmed  और  settled ; and the less populated North Woods ,  प्रयुक्त  for mining , forestry  ,  and  मनोरंजन  .
Minnesota is known for its relatively mixed social and political orientations , and  रै  a  ऊँची  rate of civic participation and voter turnout .
मिनेसोटा  ranks among the healthiest  राज्य   ,  and  रै   a   अत्यधिक   साक्षर  population .
The large majority of  निवासियों  are of Scandinavian and German descent .
The state  is  known as a  बीच   of  Scandinavian  अमरीकी   संस्कृति  .
Ethnic  विविधता  has increased in recent decades .
Substantial  influxes  of  एशियाई   ,   अफ़्रीकी   ,  and  लैटिन  American immigrants have joined the descendants  of  European settlers  और  the  असली  Native American inhabitants .
अनुदान  are  non-repayable  funds  by   एक   पार्टी  ( grant  makers  ) , often a government  विभाग   ,  corporation , foundation or  विश्वास  , to a  ,   प्रायः  ( but not  सदा  )  a  nonprofit entity ,  शैक्षणिक  institution , business or an individual  .
in  order to receive a grant  ,  some form of ``  ग्रान्ट  Writing ''  प्रायः   referred  to  as   either  a proposal or an application is usually required  .
Most grants are made to fund a  विशिष्ट  project and  आवश्यकता  some  स्तर  of compliance  और  reporting .
The  ग्रान्ट   लिखने  process involves an applicant submitting  a  proposal ( or submission )  to   a  potential  funder  , either on  the  applicant 's own  पहल  or in  जवाब   to  a  निवेदन  for Proposal  इससे  the funder .
Other  अनुदान  can be  दिए   to  individuals  ,  such as  पीड़ितों  of natural disasters or individuals  जो  seek to open  a  small  कारोबार  .
Sometimes grant makers require grant  जरुरतमंदों  to have some form of tax-exempt status ,  be   a  registered nonprofit organization or a  लोकल  government  .
For  उदाहरण  ,  tiered  funding for a freeway are  बहुत   विशाल  grants  negotiated  at government policy level .
However smaller grants may be  provided   by  a government agency ( e.g .  नगरपालिका  government ) .
Project-related funding involving governments ,  कारोबार  , communities  ,   और  individuals is  प्रायः  arranged by application either in writing or online .
Naturally occurring  कोबाल्ट   (  Co )  is  composed of 1 stable isotope ,  59co  . 28 radioisotopes have been characterized with the most stable being 60Co  साथ  a half-life of 5.2714 years , 57Co  साथ  a half-life  of  271.79 days , 56Co  साथ  a  half-life  of 77.27 days  ,  and 58Co  साथ   a  half-life of 70.86 days  .
All of the remaining  रेडियोसक्रिय  isotopes have half-lives that are less  than   18  hours  और  the majority of these have  half-lives   कि  are  कम  than  1  second .
इस   तत्व  also has 11 meta states , all of which have half-lives  कम  than 15  मिनट्स  .
The isotopes of cobalt range in atomic weight from 47Co to 75Co .
The primary  क्षय  mode  लिये  isotopes with atomic  द्रव्यमान   ईकाई   मान  less than that of  the  most abundant stable isotope ,  59co  , is electron capture  और  the primary mode of decay for  those  of  वृहद   than  59 atomic mass units is beta  क्षय  .
the  primary decay  उत्पाद   पहले  59Co are iron isotopes and  the  primary  उत्पाद  after  हैं  nickel isotopes .
मानक   परमाणु   द्रव्यमान  : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
Who Moved  my  Cheese ?
An Amazing Way to Deal with  बदलें   in  Your Work and in Your  जीवन   ,  published in 1998 ,  is  a motivational  किताब  by Spencer Johnson  लिखा  in the style  of  a parable or business  fable   .
It  describes  change in  एक   's  work and life , and four typical reactions to  कहा  change by  दो  mice  और  two ``  littlepeople   ''   ,   दौरान  their hunt for  चीज  .
A  नई   यॉर्क  Times business bestseller since release  ,   जो  Moved  my  Cheese ?
remained   on   the   सूची  for almost five  सालो  and  खर्च  over 200 weeks on Publishers Weekly  's  hardcover nonfiction  सूची   .
It has sold  अधिक  than 26 million  नक़ल  worldwide in 37  भाषाएं  and remains to be  एक  of the best-selling  कारोबार  books .
निकिता  Sergeyevich  khrushchev   (  – September 11 , 1971 ) led the Soviet Union during part  of  the Cold War .
He served as  पहला  Secretary  of  the  कम्युनिस्ट   पार्टी  of the  सोवियत   संघ   इससे  1953 to 1964 ,  और  as Chairman of the Council of Ministers ,  or   प्रीमियर   ,  from 1958 to  1964  .
Khrushchev was responsible for the  आंशिक   de-stalinization  of the Soviet Union ,  लिये   बैकिंग  the  प्रगति   of  the early Soviet space  कार्यक्रम  , and for  अनेक  relatively liberal reforms in areas of  घरेलू   नीति  .
Khrushchev 's  पार्टी  colleagues removed him from power in 1964 , replacing him with Leonid  brezhnev  as  पहला  Secretary and Alexei Kosygin as Premier  .
Khrushchev was born in the Russian  गाँव   of  Kalinovka in 1894 , close  to   the  present-day  किनारा  between Russia  और   युक्त  .
he  was employed as a metalworker in his  युवावस्था  ,  और   दौरान  the Russian Civil War was a  राजनैतिक  commissar .
साथ  the  सहायता  of Lazar  kaganovich  , he  worked  his  रास्ता  up  the   सोवियत  hierarchy .
He supported Joseph Stalin  's   purges   ,   और   स्वीकृत  thousands of arrests .
In 1939 ,  स्टालिन  sent him to govern Ukraine , and he continued the purges  वहीँ   .
During what was  ज्ञात   in   the   सोवियत   संघ   as  the Great Patriotic  युद्ध  ( Eastern Front of World War  ii  ) , Khrushchev  थी  again a  commissar  ,  सेवारत  as an intermediary between Stalin  और  his  सेनापतियों  .
Khrushchev was  उपस्थित  at  the  bloody  रक्षा  of  stalingrad   ,  a fact he took great  अभिमान   in  throughout  उसके  life .
बाद  the war , he  लौटे  to Ukraine  पहले  being recalled to  मास्को   as  one  of   स्टालिन  's close advisers  .
In the  शक्ति  struggle triggered by Stalin  's  death in 1953 ,  khrushchev   ,   बाद   अनेक  years ,  उभरा  victorious  .
on  February  25  , 1956  ,   at  the 20th Party Congress , he delivered  the  ``  रहस्य  Speech , '' denouncing Stalin 's purges and ushering in a less repressive  era  in the  सोवियत   संघ   .
His domestic policies  ,   aimed   at   bettering   the  lives  of  ordinary citizens  ,  were often ineffective , especially in the area  of  agriculture  .
Hoping eventually to  rely   on  missiles for  नेशनल   रक्षा   ,   khrushchev   ordered  major  कटौती  in  conventional  forces  .
Despite the  कटौती   ,   khrushchev  's rule  देखी  the  tensest   सालो  of  the  Cold War , culminating in the Cuban Missile Crisis .
कुछ  of  khrushchev   's  policies were seen  as   erratic  , particularly by his emerging  विरोधियों  ,  जो  quietly rose  in  strength  और  deposed him  in  October 1964  .
He did not  suffer  the deadly fate of some  पिछला   losers   of   सोवियत  power  struggles   ,  but  थी  pensioned off with  an  apartment  in   मास्को   और   a  dacha in  the  countryside  .
His lengthy memoirs  यहूद  smuggled  to  the  वेस्ट  and  प्रकाशित  in  भाग  in  1970  .
Khrushchev died in 1971 of  दिल   बीमारी   .
Upper gastrointestinal ( GI  )  bleeding refers  to  hemorrhage in  the  upper gastrointestinal  ट्रैक्ट   .
The  anatomic  cut-off for  अपर   gi  bleeding is  the   स्नायु   of  Treitz , which connects the  चौथी  portion  of  the duodenum  to   the  diaphragm  निकट  the splenic flexure of the colon .
Upper GI  bleeds  are considered medical emergencies , and  आवश्यकता  admission to hospital for urgent diagnosis and  प्रबन्धन  .
Due to  अग्रिम  in medications  और  endoscopy , upper GI hemorrhage is now usually  treated  without surgery .
World  जनसांख्यिकी   estimates  from 1800 to 2100  ,  based on UN 2010 projections ( red , orange , green  )  and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black )  .
Actual  अंकित  population  आंकड़े  are in blue .
according   to   the   उच्चतम   अनुमान  , the world population  may  rise  to  16  अरब  by 2100 ;  according  to the  न्यूनतम   अनुमान  ,  it  may decline  to  6 billion  .
The world  जनसांख्यिकी  is the total number  of   जीना  humans  on  Earth  .
As  of  today , it  is  estimated to  क्रमांक  billion by the United States Census  ब्यूरो  ( USCB ) .
The USCB  estimates  that  the  world population exceeded 7 billion on  कूच  12  ,  2012  .
according  to a separate  अनुमान  by the United Nations Population  निधि   ,  it  पहुँचे  this milestone on October 31 , 2011  .
The world population has experienced continuous  विकास  since the end  of   the   ग्रेट  Famine and the Black Death  in  1350 , when it stood at  around  370  लाख  .
The  उच्चतम   दरों  of growth – global population  increases  above 1.8 % per  साल  – were seen  briefly   दौरान   the   1950s   ,   और  for  a  longer period during  the  1960s and 1970s .
the   विकास  rate  peaked  at 2.2 % in 1963 ,  और  had  अस्वीकृत  to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births were highest  in   the   लेट   1980s  at  परिचय  138 million  ,   और  are now  अपेक्षित  to  remain  essentially constant at their  2011  level of 134 million , while deaths  क्रमांक  56 million per year , and are  अपेक्षित  to  बढ़ाएँ   to  80 million per year by 2040 .
Current  projections  show a  जारी  increase in population  in   the   निकट  future (  लकिन   a   स्थिर   मनाही  in  the  population growth rate )  ,  with the global  जनसांख्यिकी  expected to reach between  7.5  and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term  estimates  predict  further  growth ,  stagnation  ,  or  even overall decline in the global population by 2150 .
कुछ  analysts  have  questioned the sustainability of  further  world  जनसांख्यिकी   विकास  ,  citing  the growing pressures  on   the  environment  ,  global food supplies  ,  and energy  संसाधन   .
Philips  lumileds  Lighting Company is the manufacturer of a wide range of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting  diodes  (  leds  ) .
it  is a now a fully owned division of Philips Lighting .
Knuckle mnemonic for the number of days in  प्रत्येक  month of  the  Gregorian  पंचांग  .
प्रत्येक  projecting knuckle represents  a  31-day month .
a  mnemonic ( , with a  मूक  `` m '' ) , or mnemonic device ,  is  any learning technique that aids  सूचना  retention .
Mnemonics aim to translate information  into  a form that  the   इंसान  brain can retain better  than   इसके  original form .
Even  the   प्रक्रम  of  applying   इस   परिवर्तन   might   already  aid the transfer of  सूचना  to  long-term   मेमोरी  .
commonly  encountered  mnemonics   हैं   प्रायः  for lists and in  auditory   रूप  , such as short poems  ,  acronyms ,  or   यादगार  phrases , but mnemonics can  भी  be for other types of  सूचना  and in visual or kinesthetic forms  .
Their use is based on the observation  कि  the human mind more easily remembers spatial ,  निजी  , surprising , physical  ,  sexual ,  humorous  , or otherwise  'relatable  ' information ,  बल्कि  than  अधिक  abstract  or  impersonal forms  of   सूचना  .
the  word  mnemonic   is   निकला  from the  प्राचीन  Greek word μνημονικός  (  mnēmonikos  )  , meaning `` of  मेमोरी  '' and is related to Mnemosyne ( ``  स्मरण   ''  ) ,  the  name of the goddess  of  memory in Greek  mythology  .
Both  of   ये   शब्द  are derived from μνήμη ( mnēmē ) , `` remembrance  ,  memory '' .
Mnemonics in  प्राचीनता   यहूद  most  प्रायः   माना  in  the  context of what  is  today  ज्ञात  as the  आर्ट  of memory .
प्राचीन  Greeks and Romans  विशिष्ट   between   दो  types of memory : the 'natural ' memory and the 'artificial ' memory  .
The former is inborn , and  is  the one that everyone  उपयोग  automatically and  बगैर   सोच   .
The artificial  मेमोरी   in   कंट्रास्ट  has to be trained and developed through the learning and practicing of  a  variety of  mnemonic   तकनीकों   .
Mnemonic  प्रणालियों  are special techniques or strategies consciously used to  improve  memory , it  helps  employ  सूचना   already   भंडारित   in   long-term  memory to make memorization an easier task .
अध्यक्ष  Bush signing  the   no  Child Left  पीछे  Act  at   हैमिल्टन  H.S . in Hamilton ,  ओहियो  .
the  No Child Left Behind Act of 2001  (  NCLB )  is  a United States  अधिनियम  of Congress  कि   is  a reauthorization  of  the  elementary  and  द्वितीयक  Education  अधिनियम  ,  जिससे  included  शीर्षक   i   ,   the  government  's  flagship  सहायता  program for disadvantaged students .
NCLB supports standards-based education reform based  on   the  premise  कि  setting high standards and  establishing  measurable goals  can  improve individual outcomes in  शिक्षा  .
The Act requires states to develop assessments  in   मौलिक   कौशल  .
राज्य  must give these  आकलन   to  all  विद्यार्थी  at select grade  स्तर   in   अनुक्रम  to receive  संघीय   स्कूल   funding  .
The Act does not assert  a  national  उपलब्धि  standard ; standards  हैं  set by each  व्यक्तिगत   राज्य  .
NCLB  विस्तारित  the federal role in public education through  सालाना  testing ,  सालाना  academic progress  ,  report  ताश   ,   टीचर  qualifications , and  funding  changes  .
the   विधेयक   passed  in the U.S. Congress with bipartisan  support   .
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950 , driven  by   अल्बर्ट  Namatjira
a   पिकअप  truck  or  pick-up , often simply  referred  to as a  पिकअप   ,   is  a  लाइट  motor  गाडी  with an  open-top  , rear cargo area (  bed  ) .
In  उत्तर   अमेरिका  ,  the  term  पिकअप  is  प्रयुक्त  for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis  और   फैक्टरी  built  ,   एकीकृत  bed  ,  as well as  लिये  coupé  यूटिलिटी  vehicles , often based  on  a personal  car  chassis , but  भी  often  on  a  खास   समर्पित   chassi   लिये   ऐसे  use .
Some  देशों  have their  अपना   शर्तें  similar to pickup , such  as  ute in Australia and New  जीलैंड  , or bakkie in South  अफ़्रीकी  .
Large  पिकअप   ट्रक  are somewhat  विरल  in Europe ,  जहाँ  vans  और   लाइट   lorries  are commonly used for similar roles .
This 15th-century depiction  of  Charlemagne  और  Pope Adrian  i   shows   a  well-bred medieval  घोड़ा  with arched neck , refined  सिर  and elegant gait .
Horses in  the  Middle  आयु  differed  in  size  ,  build and breed  इससे  the modern horse , and were ,  on   औसत  ,  छोटी   .
They were  भी  more central  to  society  than  their modern counterparts , being essential for war , agriculture , and  हस्तांतरण  .
नतीजतन   ,  specific  प्रकार  of horse developed ,  अनेक   of  which have no  आधुनिक  equivalent .
While an understanding of modern horse  breeds  and  equestrianism  is vital for any  विश्लेषण   of  the medieval horse , researchers also need to consider documentary  (  both written and pictorial ) and  पुरातत्व  evidence .
Horses in the Middle  आयु  were rarely differentiated by breed ,  लकिन   बल्कि  by use  .
This led  उन्हें  to  be  described , for example , as  ``   chargers  `` (  युद्ध   घोड़े  ) , ``  palfreys  `` ( riding horses )  ,   कार्ट  horses  or  packhorses .
Reference is also  दिए  to  उनके  place of  उत्पत्ति  , such  as  `` Spanish horses  ,  '' but whether  इस  referred to  एक  breed  or   अनेक   is  unknown  .
Another difficulty  arising   दौरान   कोई   पढ़ाई   of  medieval documents or  साहित्य  is the flexibility  of   the  medieval languages , where several words can be used for one  बात  ( or ,  conversely  , several  वस्तुएँ   हैं   referred   to  by one word  )  .
Words such  as  '  courser  ' and 'charger ' are used interchangeably  (   भी  within  एक  document  )   ,  and where  एक  epic may speak disparagingly of a rouncey  ,   another   गुणगान  its skill and swiftness .
Significant technological advances  in  equestrian equipment , often introduced  इससे  other cultures  ,  allowed  लिये   significant   परिवर्तन  in both  warfare  and agriculture .
in  particular , improved  डिजाइन   लिये  the solid-treed  काठी  as well as the arrival of  the  stirrup ,  नाल   और  horse  कॉलर  were significant advances in medieval society .
नतीजतन  ,  the  assumptions and theories  विकसित   by  historians are  नहीं   निर्णायक   ,   और   बहस  still  rages  on  अनेक  issues , such as the  प्रजनन  or  आकार  of  the   घोड़ा   ,  and a number  of   स्त्रोत   जरूर  be consulted in order  to   समझे   the   विशालता  of the subject  .
The  म्यूज़िक   man  is a musical  साथ   किताब   ,  music , and lyrics by Meredith Willson , based on  a  story by Willson  और   फ्रैंकलिन  Lacey .
the   प्लाट  concerns con man Harold  हिल   ,  who poses as a  लड़कों   '  band organizer and leader and sells band instruments and  वर्दी  to naive townsfolk  पहले  skipping town with  the   नकदी  .
In River City ,  आयोवा  ,  prim  librarian and piano teacher Marian  paroo   sees   through  him , but when Hill  helps  her younger brother overcome  उसके  fear  of  social interactions due  to  his  लिस्प   ,  Marian  begins  to fall in  प्रेम  with Harold  .
हेरोल्ड   ,  in turn falling for  marian   ,  risks being caught to win  उसके  .
In 1957  ,  the show became a hit on Broadway , winning five Tony  पुरस्कार  , including Best Musical ,  और  running  लिये  1,375 performances .
The cast album won the first Grammy Award for  ``  Best Original  डाल  Album '' and was number  एक  on the  बिलबोर्ड  charts for 245  सप्ताह  .
The show  's  success led  to  revivals and a  लोकप्रिय   1962   फिल्मी  adaptation and a 2003 television remake .
It frequently is  उत्पादित  by both  पेशेवर  and amateur  थिएटर  companies .
Surveyor 's wheel
A surveyor  's  wheel ,  भी   पुकारा  a clickwheel ,  hodometer   ,  waywiser , trundle  व्हील  , measuring wheel , or perambulator is  a  device for measuring  अलहदा  .
Largest non-polar deserts
बालू   टीले  in the Rub '  al   खली  (  ``   खाली  quarter ''  )   of  Saudi  अरब   .
Makhtesh Ramon ,  negev  desert ,  इसराईल
A desert is a landscape or region of land that  is  very  शुष्क  because  of  low  वर्षा  amounts (  वर्षण   )  ,  प्रायः  has little coverage  by  plants , and  in  which streams  शुष्क  up  जबतक  they  हैं   supplied  by water from outside areas .
Deserts can also be  वर्णित   as  areas where  अधिक   जल  is  खोया  by evapotranspiration than  जलप्रपात  as precipitation  .
मरुस्थल  plants  जरूर  have special  adaptations   to  survive with this little water .
रेगिस्तान   generally   प्राप्त  less than  25  cm of  बरसात  ( precipitation  )   प्रत्येक  year .
Semideserts or steppes are regions which receive between and  .
In the  köppen   जलवायु  classification  प्रणाली  ,  रेगिस्तान   हैं  classed  as   bwh   (  hot desert ) or BWk  (  temperate  मरुस्थल  ) .
in  the Thornthwaite climate  वर्गीकरण  system , deserts would be  वर्गीकृत   as  arid megathermal  climates   .
World  युद्ध  I  (  WWI ) was a global war  केंद्रित  in Europe  कि   began   on  28 July 1914  और  lasted until 11 November 1918 .
it  was predominantly called  the  World War  or  the Great  युद्ध  from  इसके  occurrence until the  प्रारंभ  of World War II in  1939  , and  the  First World War or  संसार   युद्ध  I thereafter  .
it  involved  सब  the world  's  great powers , which were assembled  in   दो   opposing  alliances  :  the  allies  ( based on the Triple Entente of  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers  (   originally  the  ट्रिपल  Alliance of Germany  ,  Austria-Hungary and  इटली  ;  लकिन  , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive  विरूद्ध  the  अनुबंध  , Italy  किया   नहीं  enter  into  the war ) .
These alliances were  दोनो   reorganised  and expanded as more nations entered the war :  इटली  ,  जापानी  and the United States joined the Allies  ,  and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately ,  अधिक  than 70 million military personnel ,  सहित  60  लाख  Europeans  ,  were mobilised in one  of  the largest wars in history  .
More  than   9  million combatants were  मारे  , largely because of  technological   advancements   कि  led to  विशाल   increases  in the lethality of  हथियार   बगैर   सम्बन्धित  improvements in protection or mobility .
It  थी  the  fifth-  deadliest conflict in world history  ,  subsequently  paving  the way for various political changes  ,   ऐसे  as  revolutions   in  many of  the   राष्ट्र  involved .
One of  the  long-term  कल्याणकारी  of the war was the  पुनरुत्थान   of  imperialism in  the  foreign  नीतियों   of  the  ग्रेट  powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand  of  Austria , the heir  to  the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip  in  Sarajevo triggered a  राजनयिक   संकट   जब  Austria-Hungary subsequently  वितरित  an ultimatum to the  किंगडम  of Serbia  .
Several alliances formed over the  पिछला   दशकों  were  invoked   .
भीतर  weeks , the major powers were  at   युद्ध  and , via their colonies  ,  the conflict soon spread around the world  .
on  28 July ,  the  Austro-Hungarians fired  the  first  गोलियाँ   of   the   युद्ध  as preparation for the  आक्रमण  of Serbia .
While  the  Russians mobilised ,  the   germans   invaded  neutral Belgium  और  Luxembourg on the way to  फ़्रांस  , providing a casus belli for Britain 's  घोषणा  of war  विरूद्ध  Germany .
बाद   the  German  कूच  on Paris was  brought   to  a  halt—the  so-called Miracle of the  marne  —the Western  सामने  settled into a static  बैटल  of attrition with a trench  लकीर  that  बदला   छोटी   जबतक  1917  .
On the  पूर्वी   सामने  , the Russian  फौज   थी  successful  विरूद्ध   the  Austro-Hungarians ,  लकिन  was stopped in  इसके   आक्रमण  of  ईस्ट  Prussia  by  the  germans  .
In November the  उस्मानी   साम्राज्य  joined the  युद्ध  ,  खोलने  up  fronts  in the Caucasus  ,  Mesopotamia and the  sinai  .
इटली   और  Bulgaria  गई  to war  in  1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed  in  March 1917  और  a subsequent revolution in November brought the  russians   to   शर्तें  with the Central  शक्तियां   .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front ,  the  Allies drove  वापस   the  Germans in a series  of  successful offensives and American forces began entering  the  trenches .
जर्मनी  ,  जिससे   था  its own  ट्रबल  with  क्रांतिकारियों  , agreed  to  an  armistice  on 11 November 1918 .
the  war ended in victory for  the  Allies .
Events on the  घर  fronts were as tumultuous as on the  बैटल  fronts  ,   as  the participants  आजमाया   to  mobilize their manpower and economic  संसाधन   to  fight a  कुल  war .
By  the  end  of  the  युद्ध  ,  चार  major  इम्पीरियल  powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased  to  exist .
The successor  राज्य   of   the  former  दो  lost a great  राशि  of territory , while  the  latter two  यहूद   dismantled   entirely  .
the   मैप  of central Europe was redrawn into several  छोटी  states .
The  लीग  of Nations was formed  in  the hope of preventing another such conflict .
The European nationalism  शाखित   by  the  युद्ध  and  the  breakup  of  empires ,  the   परखना  of Germany 's defeat  और  problems  साथ   the  Treaty of  versailles  are agreed to be factors contributing to World War  ii   .
``  Girls Just Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979  सोंग  originally written by Robert  जोखिम   और  made famous by singer Cyndi Lauper .
It  थी  the first major  सिंगल  released by Lauper as  a   सोलो  artist  और   the   lead-off   सिंगल  from her  डेब्यू  album She 's So Unusual .
Lauper’s version gained recognition as  a  feminist anthem  और   प्रचारित   by   an  award-winning  वीडियो  .
it  has been covered on  either  an  एल्बम   or  in  सजीव   कॉन्सर्ट  by  over  30 other  कलाकारों  .
The  सिंगल  was  lauper  's breakthrough hit  ,   reaching   #  2  on  the Billboard Hot 100  और  becoming a  विश्वव्यापी  hit throughout late  1983   और  early 1984  .
It  remains  one of  lauper  's signature songs and was a  widely  popular song during the era of its release , the  1980s  .
The ``  रोलिंग  Stone & MTV : '100 Greatest Pop  गीतों   '  :  1-50  '' , `` Rolling  स्टोन  : `` The  100  Top Music  वीडियो   ''  '' and the `` VH1  :  100 Greatest Videos  ''   सूचियाँ   क्रमित  the song  at  # 22  ,  # 39 and #  45  , respectively .
The song  प्राप्त   a  Grammy Award nomination for Record of the  साल  and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance .
View of defibrillator electrode position  और  placement  .
Defibrillation  is  a  आम   उपचार  for life-threatening  हृदय  dysrhythmias , ventricular fibrillation , and  pulseless   ventricular  tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists of  delivering  a therapeutic dose of electrical  उर्जा   to  the affected  दिल  with a  यंत्र  called  a  defibrillator .
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart  मांसपेशी   ,   terminates   the  dysrhythmia , and  allows  normal sinus  लय  to be reestablished by  the  body 's natural  pacemaker  , in the sinoatrial node of the  दिल  .
Defibrillators can be external , transvenous  ,  or implanted , depending on the type of device used  or  needed .
Some external units , known  as  automated external  defibrillators   (   aeds  ) , automate the diagnosis of treatable  लय  , meaning  कि  lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little ,  or   in   कुछ   मामले   no  training at all .
the   केटो  Institute is an American libertarian  सोचो  tank headquartered in  वॉशिंगटन  ,  d.c  .
it   थी  founded as the Charles Koch  न्यास  in 1974 by  मरे  Rothbard ,  ed  Crane and  चार्ल्स   koch  ,  अध्यक्ष  of the  फलक   और  chief  कार्यपालिका   अधिकारी  of the  संगुटिका  Koch  उद्योग  , Inc. .
In July  1976  , the name was changed to  the  Cato  संस्थान  .
According to the 2011 Global Go  to  Think Tank Index , Cato  is  the 6th most  influential  US based think tank  ,  ranking 3rd in Economic Policy and 2nd in Social Policy .
the  Institute  's  stated  मिशन   is  `` to increase the  समझना  of public policies  आधारित   on  the principles  of  limited  सरकारी  , free markets , individual liberty  ,   और   सलाम  .
The Institute will  उपयोग  the  सबसे  effective means to originate , advocate , promote  ,   और  disseminate applicable  नीति   प्रस्ताव   कि   बनाएँ   फ़्री   ,  open  ,  and civil  समाजों  in  the  United States  और  throughout  the   संसार   .   ''
Cato  विद्वानों  were  नाजुक  of George  W.   बुश  's Republican administration ( 2001–2009 ) on several  मुद्दे  , including  the  Iraq War ,  सिविल  liberties ,  शिक्षा  ,  कृषि  , energy policy  ,  and excessive government spending .
On  अन्य   मुद्दे  , they supported Bush administration initiatives  ,  most notably health care ,  सोशल  Security , global warming , tax policy , and immigration .
During  the  2008 U.S. presidential election ,  केटो  scholars criticized both major-party candidates , John McCain and Barack Obama .
केटो   रै  criticized President  ओबामा   's  stances on policy issues since  उसके  inauguration  ,  such as fiscal stimulus  ,  healthcare reform ,  विदेशी  policy  ,  and the  युद्ध   on   दवाएँ  , while  supporting   उसके  stance on the  repeal  of Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell and liberal immigration policy  .
Dracula is an 1897 Gothic horror novel by Irish author Bram Stoker .
प्रसिद्ध  for introducing the character of the  पिशाच  Count  ड्रैकुला  ,  the  novel  tells   the   स्टोरी   of  Dracula  's  attempt to relocate  इससे  Transylvania to  इंग्लैण्ड  , and the  बैटल  between  ड्रैकुला   और  a small group of  मेन  and women led by  प्राध्यापक  Abraham Van Helsing .
Dracula has been  आबंटित  to  अनेक  literary genres including vampire  साहित्य  ,  हॉरर   fiction   ,  the gothic  अनोखा   और  invasion literature .
The novel touches on themes such as the role of women in Victorian culture ,  यौन  conventions ,  आव्रजन  , colonialism , and post-colonialism  .
Although  स्टोकर  did  नहीं  invent the vampire , he defined its modern form , and the novel has spawned numerous theatrical ,  फिल्मी   और   टेलीविज़न  interpretations .
quidditch  is  a  competitive  खेल   in  the wizarding  संसार  of the Harry Potter  ब्रह्मांड  , and  is   इससे  the series  of  children 's novels  और  movies .
It is  an  extremely rough but  बहुत  popular semi-contact  खेल  , played by  wizards   और  witches .
Matches  हैं  played between two teams of seven  खिलाड़ी   सवारी  flying broomsticks  ,   using  four  गेंदें  and  छह   elevated  ring-shaped goals  ,  three on each  पक्ष   of  the  quidditch  pitch ( field )  .
In the Harry  कुम्हार   ब्रह्मांड  , Quidditch holds a fervent  following   समान  to the position that  संघ   फ़ुटबॉल   holds   as  a  globally  popular sport  .
The sport is  स्मारकीय  throughout the wizarding world .
हैरी  plays  an  important position for his  हाउस  team at Hogwarts  :   he   is  the seeker and  becomes  the captain  in  his  छठे  year there  .
क्षेत्रीय  and international competitions are  उल्लेखित  throughout the series .
in   प्याला  of  आग  ,  quidditch   at   हॉग्वार्ट्स   is  cancelled for the  tri-wizard  Tournament  ,  but Harry  और   the   weasleys   attend   the  Quidditch  संसार   कप  .
In addition , Harry uses his  quidditch  skills to capture  a  golden egg  इससे   a   ड्रैगन  called the  हंगेरियाई  Horntail ( in  the   पहला  task  of  the  tri-wizard  Tournament )  ,  to capture a  उड़ती  key in Philosopher 's  स्टोन   ,  and on  दो  key occasions in  deathly  Hallows —  getting  hold  of  Ravenclaw  's   diadem   ,  and during the final fight  साथ   voldemort  —  the  `` unerring skill of the Seeker '' is useful to  उसे  in snatching  the  Elder Wand out of  the   एयर  .
Harry Potter has owned two broomsticks  ,  the Nimbus 2000 and the  firebolt  , both of  जिससे  are  नष्ट  by the series  '  end .
The  खेल  has been  अपनाया   in   the   रियल  world  in  the form of Muggle Quidditch .
The  संयुक्त  States Congress is the bicameral legislature of the  संघीय  government  of  the United  राज्य  consisting of  दो  houses  :  the lower house known as the House of Representatives  और  the upper house  ज्ञात  as the Senate .
कॉंग्रेस  meets  in  the Capitol in Washington , D.C .
Both representatives and senators are chosen through  सीधा  election .
Congress has a total of  535   मतदान   सदस्यों  : 435 members  in  the House of Representatives and 100  सदस्यों  in the Senate  .
Members of the House  of  Representatives serve two-year terms  representing   the  people of  a  district .
Congressional districts are apportioned to states  by  population  using  the United States  जनसांख्यिकी  results ,  प्रत्येक  state  in  the union  having  at least one representative in the House of  प्रतिनिधि   .
Regardless of  जनसांख्यिकी  , each  of  the 50  राज्य   रै  two  सीनेटरों  ;  the   100   सीनेटरों  each serve a  six-year  term .
The terms  हैं   लड़खड़ाते   so   प्रत्येक  two  सालो  approximately one-third of the Senate  is  up for election  .
Each staggered group of one-third of the senators are called  'classes   '   .
No  राज्य   of  the United States has two  सीनेटरों   इससे   the   वही   क्लास  .
Most  incumbents  seek re-election , and their historical likelihood of winning subsequent elections  exceeds  90 percent  .
in  August 2012 , a Gallup  पोल  reported that Congress’s  स्वीकृति  rating amongst Americans  थी  at 10 % ,  मिलान   a  38-year low reached  in   नवम्बर   2011  .
``  a  Little More Country  than  That '' is the  शीर्षक  of  a  song  लिखा  by  जॉय   +  Rory 's Rory Lee Feek  ,  Wynn  varble   ,  and Don Poythress , and recorded  by   अमरीकी   देश  artist Easton Corbin .
It was  released   in   अगस्त   2009   as  Corbin 's  डेब्यू  single and is included on his self-titled debut album .
in  April 2010 , the song  पहुँचे  Number  एक   on  the country  म्यूज़िक  charts  ,   बनाना  Corbin the first male solo artist in seven  सालो   to  send a  डेब्यू  single  to  Number One  .
It has been  certified  Gold by  the  RIAA .
the  BlackBerry is a  लकीर  of  बेतार  handheld  डिवाइस  and services designed and  marketed  by Research In Motion  सीमित  (  रिम  )  ऑपरेटिंग  as BlackBerry  .
The  पहला  BlackBerry device , an email pager , was released  in  1999 ;  the   सबसे  recent BlackBerry devices , the  z10  and  q10  , were announced  on  January 30 ,  2013  .
The  उपयोक्ता  interface varies by model  ;  most feature a  शारीरिक   क्वर्टी  keyboard , while newer generations have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual  कुंजीपटल  .
A BlackBerry  can  shoot video , take photos , play music , and perform online  कृत्यों  such as  web-browsing   और   emailing  .
They can  भी  send and receive  धक्का  email and instant  संदेश  while maintaining a  ऊँची  level of  सुरक्षा  through on-device message  एन्क्रिप्शन  , and  हैं  designed to  फलन  as personal  डिजिटल  assistants  .
ब्लैकबेरी   डिवाइस  support  a  large variety of instant  messaging  features  ,  with  the   सबसे  popular being the  मालिकाना  BlackBerry Messenger service .
the  BlackBerry PlayBook is  a  tablet  कंप्यूटर  offered  by   the  company  .
the  100 millionth BlackBerry  स्मार्टफोन  was shipped in June quarter of 2010 and the 200  millionth  smartphone was shipped in September quarter of 2012  .
BlackBerry accounts for 3 %  of  mobile device  बिक्री   विश्वव्यापी  in 2011 , making its manufacturer the sixth  सबसे  popular device maker ( 25 % of  मोबाईल  device  बिक्री  are smartphones  )  .
The consumer  ब्लैकबेरी  Internet Service is available in 91  देशों   विश्वव्यापी   on   over  500 mobile service operators using various  मोबाईल  technologies .
As  of  September 2012 , there were eighty million  सदस्य  worldwide to BlackBerry  .
In  2011  the Caribbean and  लैटिन  America had the highest penetrations of BlackBerry smartphones  विश्वव्यापी  , with up to about 45 per  cent  in  the  region having  a  RIM  यंत्र  .
BlackBerry ,  iphone  , Android , and Windows  फोन   हैं  considered  the  four major smartphone  ब्रांड्स   .
ब्लैकबेरी  is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry '' in the United  राज्य   ,  which  alludes  to  इसके   excessive  use by  इसके  owners  और  is  a   सन्दर्भ  to the addictiveness  of  crack cocaine .
Use of  the   पद  CrackBerry became  so  widespread that  in   नवम्बर   2006  Webster 's New World College Dictionary named `` crackberry  ''   the  ``  नई  Word of  the   साल   .   ''
An  उदाहरण   of   a  demand curve  shifting  .
The  शिफ़्ट  from D1 To D2 means an increase in demand  साथ  consequences for  the  other variables
In economics , the demand curve is  the  graph  depicting  the relationship  between  the price  of   a   निश्चित   कमोडिटी  and the amount of  it  that consumers are willing and able to  खरीदें  at that  दिए   दाम  .
It is a graphic representation of a  माँग  schedule  .
The demand curve for all consumers together follows from the  माँग  curve of every individual consumer : the individual demands at each price are  added   साथ  .
Demand curves  हैं  used to  अनुमान   व्यवहार  in competitive  बाज़ार  , and are often combined with supply  वक्र   to  estimate the equilibrium price (  the   दाम   at   जिससे   विक्रेता  together are willing  to   बेचें   the  same amount as buyers together  हैं  willing to buy , also known as  मार्केट  clearing price )  और  the equilibrium quantity ( the amount of that good or service that will be produced and bought  बगैर  surplus/excess supply  or   shortage/excess  demand )  of  that  मार्केट  .
In a monopolistic  मार्केट  ,  the   माँग   वक्र   facing   the   monopolist  is  बस  the  मार्केट  demand curve .
historia
by  Nikolaos Gysis  (   1892   )
History (  इससे  Greek - historia , meaning  ``  inquiry , knowledge  acquired  by investigation '' )  is  an  छतरियाँ  term  कि  relates to past  कार्यक्रम  as well  as  the discovery  ,   संग्रहण  , organization , and  प्रस्तुतीकरण   of  information about these events  .
The  पद   शामिल   लौकिक  , geologic , and organic history , but  is  often generically  implied  to mean human  इतिहास  .
विद्वानों  who write about history  हैं  called  इतिहासकारों   .
इतिहास  can also  refer  to the academic  अनुशासन   जिससे  uses a  कथा   to   जाँचें   और  analyse a sequence of  पास्ट  events ,  और  objectively determine the  पैटर्न  of cause  और  effect that  determine  them .
Historians sometimes  बहस  the nature of history and  इसके   उपयोगिता  by discussing the study of the discipline as an end in itself  और  as a way of providing `` perspective '' on the problems of the present .
कहानियां  common  to   a   particular  culture , but not supported by external sources ( such  as  the tales surrounding  किंग   आर्थर  )  हैं  usually classified as cultural heritage or  महापुरूष  , because  वे   do  not support the `` disinterested investigation '' required  of   the   अनुशासन   of   इतिहास   .
Events occurring prior to written record are considered  प्रागितिहास   .
हिरोडोटस  ,  a   5th  century B.C  .  Greek  इतिहासकार  is considered within the Western  परंपरा  to be the `` father of history  ''  ,  और  , along  साथ   उसके   समकालीन  Thucydides  ,  helped form the foundations for the modern study of human  इतिहास  .
उनके  work  continues  to be  पढ़ा   आज  and the divide  between  the culture-focused Herodotus  और   the   military-focused   thucydides  remains a point  of  contention or approach  in  modern historical writing .
In the  पूर्वी   परंपरा   ,   a  state  वृत्तान्त  the  वसन्त  and Autumn Annals  थी  known to  be  compiled from  as  early as 722 BCE although  तभी  2nd century  bce   ग्रन्थ  survived .
Ancient influences have helped spawn variant interpretations  of   the  nature of  इतिहास  which have evolved  over   the   सदियां  and  continue  to change today .
The modern study  of  history is wide-ranging  ,  and includes  the   पढ़ाई  of specific  regions  and  the  study  of  certain topical or thematical  तत्व  of historical investigation  .
प्रायः   इतिहास  is  सिखाया  as part of  प्राथमिक  and  द्वितीयक   शिक्षा  , and  the   अकादमिक  study of history  is  a major  अनुशासन  in University studies .
Malcolm  x  ( ; May  19  , 1925February 21 , 1965 )  ,   born   मैल्कम  Little and also  ज्ञात  as El-Hajj  malik  El-Shabazz ( ) ,  थी  an  african-american   मुस्लिम  minister and human  अधिकारों  activist .
To his admirers  ,  he was a  साहसी  advocate for  the  rights of  अश्वेतों   ,  a  man  who indicted  श्वेत  America  in  the harshest terms  लिये  its crimes against black Americans .
detractors  accused him of  उपदेश  racism  ,   ब्लैक  supremacy , and violence .
He has  महरूम  called  एक   of  the greatest and  सबसे  influential African Americans in history  .
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by  श्वेत  supremacists  ,  it was  rumored—when  he was  यंग   ,   और  at  तनिक  one of his  uncles  was lynched .
When he  थी  13 , his  माँ  was  लगाई   in  a mental  हॉस्पिटल   ,   और  he was placed in a series of foster  घरों   .
In 1946 , at age  20   ,  he  गई  to prison for breaking  और   प्रवेश  .
In prison ,  मैल्कम   x  became a  सदस्य  of the Nation  of  Islam ;  बाद   उसके  parole  in   1952   ,   he  quickly rose to become one  of  its leaders .
For a dozen  सालो  , Malcolm X  थी   the   पब्लिक  face of the controversial group , but  मोहभंग  with Nation  of  Islam head  इलियास   मुहम्मद  led him to  छोड़  the Nation  in  March 1964  .
After a period  of  travel in  अफ़्रीकी   और  the Middle East , he  लौटे  to the United States , where he founded Muslim Mosque  ,  Inc.  और   the   संगठन  of Afro-American Unity .
In  फ़रवरी  1965  ,  less than  a   साल  after leaving the Nation  of  Islam , he was assassinated  by  three members of  the  group .
Malcolm  x   's  expressed beliefs changed substantially over  समय   .
As  a  spokesman for the Nation  of   islam   he   सिखाया  black  सर्वोच्चता   और  advocated separation  of  black and white Americans —in  कंट्रास्ट  to the civil rights movement  's   जोर  on integration  .
बाद   तोड़कर  with the Nation  of   islam   in  1964—saying of his association with  it  ,  ``  I  किया  many things as a [ Black  ]  Muslim that I 'm sorry  लिये  now .
I  थी  a zombie then ...  pointed   in  a  निश्चित  direction  और  told to  कूच  '' —and becoming  a   सुन्नी   मुस्लिम   ,   he  disavowed racism  और  expressed  willingness  to  कार्य  with  सिविल  rights leaders  ,  he  जारी   to   emphasize  Pan-Africanism , black  self-determination  , and self-defense .
Henry Merritt  ``   हांक  '' Paulson  ,  Jr. (  born  March 28 ,  1946  ) is an American banker who  परोसा   as   the  74th United States Secretary of the  राजकोष  .
He had served as  the  Chairman and  मुख्य   कार्यपालिका  Officer  of  Goldman Sachs ,  और   is   अभी   अध्यक्ष  of the Paulson Institute , which he founded in  2011  to promote  चिरस्थायी   आर्थिक  growth and a  क्लीनर  environment  around  the world ,  साथ   an  initial focus  on  the United States and  चीन   .
A virtual machine  (  VM )  is  a software implemented abstraction  of  the underlying hardware  ,  which is presented to the application layer of the  प्रणाली  .
Virtual machines may be  आधारित  on specifications  of   a  hypothetical computer or emulate  the  computer architecture  और  functions  of  a real world computer .
Spiders ( order  araneae   )   हैं   air-breathing   arthropods  that have eight legs  और  chelicerae with fangs that inject venom  .
They are the largest order of arachnids and  रैंक  seventh  in   कुल  species  विविधता  among all  अन्य  groups  of  organisms .
Spiders are  मिला  worldwide  on  every  महाद्वीप   मगर   लिये  Antarctica , and  have  become  स्थापित  in  nearly   प्रत्येक  habitat with  the  exception of  एयर   और  sea colonization .
as   of  2008 ,  at  least 43,678 spider species  ,  and 109  परिवारों   have   महरूम   अंकित  by taxonomists  ;  however ,  वहीँ  has been confusion within  the  scientific community as to how all these families should be classified ,  as  evidenced by the over 20  अलग   classifications  that  have  been proposed since 1900 .
anatomically  ,  मकड़ियों  differ from other arthropods in that the usual body segments are fused  into  two  tagmata   ,  the cephalothorax and abdomen  ,  and joined  by  a small , cylindrical  pedicel  .
Unlike  कीट  , spiders  do  not have antennae .
In  सब  except the most  आदिम   समूह   ,  the  mesothelae  , spiders have the  सबसे  centralized  बेचैन  systems  of  all  arthropods   ,  as all their ganglia are fused  into   एक  mass  in   the  cephalothorax .
Unlike  सबसे  arthropods  ,  spiders have no  extensor  muscles in their  limbs  and instead  extend  them by hydraulic pressure .
Their abdomens bear appendages that have  महरूम  modified  into  spinnerets  कि  extrude  रेशा  from up  to  six  प्रकार  of silk glands within their abdomen .
मकड़ी  webs  vary   widely   in  size , shape  और  the  राशि  of sticky thread  प्रयुक्त  .
It now  appears   कि  the  सर्पिल  orb web  may   be  one  of   the  earliest forms , and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs  हैं  more abundant  और   विविध  than orb-web  मकड़ियों  .
spider-like  arachnids with silk-producing spigots  appeared   in   the   devonian   काल  about , but  ये  animals apparently lacked  spinnerets  .
True spiders have been  मिला  in Carboniferous rocks from , and are very  समान  to the most primitive surviving  अनुक्रम   ,  the Mesothelae .
The  प्रमुख  groups of modern  मकड़ियों   ,  Mygalomorphae and  araneomorphae  , first  appeared  in the Triassic  काल   ,  before .
A herbivorous species ,  bagheera  kiplingi , was described in 2008  ,  but all  अन्य  known  प्रजाति  are predators  ,   ज़्यादातर  preying on insects and on other  मकड़ियों   ,  although a few large  प्रजाति   भी   लो   पक्षियों  and lizards .
Spiders  उपयोग  a wide range of  रणनीति   to   कैप्चर  prey : trapping  it  in sticky webs  ,  lassoing it  साथ   स्टिकी  bolas , mimicking the prey  to   avoid  detection , or running  it   bas   .
Most  detect  prey mainly by sensing  कंपन  , but the active hunters  have   अधि  vision  ,  and hunters  of  the genus Portia  दिखाएँ  signs of intelligence  in  their choice of tactics and ability  to  develop new ones  .
Spiders  '  guts are too narrow  to  take solids  ,  and  वे  liquidize their  खाना  by flooding  it  with digestive  एंजाइमों  and grinding it with the bases of  उनके  pedipalps  ,   as  they do  नहीं  have true  जबड़े  .
Male spiders  पहचानो  themselves by  a   किस्में  of complex courtship  संस्कार   to  avoid being eaten by  the  females .
Males of most species  जीवित   a   few   matings  ,  सीमित   मुख्यतः  by their  छोटी  life spans .
महिलाओं  weave silk egg-cases , each of which may  contain   सैंकड़ों  of eggs .
Females  of  many species  परवाह   लिये  their young , for example by carrying them around or by sharing food with  उन्हें   .
A  अल्पसंख्यक   of   प्रजाति  are social , building  सांप्रदायिक   webs  that may house anywhere from  a  few to 50,000  individuals   .
Social  बर्ताव  ranges from  precarious  toleration , as in the widow  मकड़ियों   ,  to co-operative  शिकार  and food-sharing .
हालांकि  most spiders  सजीव   लिये  at most  दो  years , tarantulas and  अन्य  mygalomorph  मकड़ियों  can live  up  to 25 years in captivity  .
While the venom of a  few  species  is   खतरनाक  to humans  ,   वैज्ञानिकों  are  अभी   researching  the use of  मकड़ी  venom in medicine  और  as  non-polluting  pesticides .
Spider silk  provides  a combination of lightness , strength  और   लोच  that is  श्रेष्ठ   to  that of  सिंथेटिक  materials ,  और  spider silk  जीनों  have been inserted into  स्तनधारियों  and plants to  देखिए  if these can be used  as  silk  कारखानों  .
As a  परिणाम   of  their  चौड़ी   दायरा  of behaviors  ,  spiders have become  आम  symbols in art and mythology symbolizing  विभिन्न  combinations of patience ,  क्रूरता  and creative powers  .
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born February  13  , 1960  )  is a fictional character and  एक   of  the  दो  female leads  in  the  फॉक्स  sitcom That '70s Show , appearing in all  आठ  seasons  .
Portrayed by Laura  prepon  , Donna is the love  ब्याज  to  eric   forman  .
US  काउंटी  household median  आय  2009  .
मध्य  US  household  income ,  2001-2011
household   आय  is  a   माप   commonly  used  by   the   संयुक्त  States government  और   निजी  institutions .
Each household  is  measured by the income of  प्रत्येक  resident over  the  age of  15  .
Income  शामिल  wages and salaries ,  बेरोजगारी  insurance  ,  disability  भुगतान  , child support payments  प्राप्त  ,  नियमित  rental receipts , as  खूब   as   कोई   निजी   कारोबार   ,  investment ,  or  other kinds of income received  routinely  .
While inflation-adjusted  (  `` real '' ) household  आय  had  महरूम  increasing almost  प्रत्येक  year from  1945  to  1999  , it has since been  चपटा  and even  decreased  recently .
u.S.  median household income fell  इससे  $  51,144  in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011 .
Extreme poverty in the United States ,  अर्थ  households  जीना  on less than  $  2 per day  पहले  government benefits  ,  doubled from  1996  to 1.5  लाख  households in 2011  ,  including 2.8 million children .
The residents of the household do not have  to  be related  to  the head of the household for  उनके   आय  to be considered part of the household  's  income  .
As  households  tend to share a similar  आर्थिक   कॉन्टेक्स्ट   ,  the  उपयोग  of household income remains  among  the most widely accepted  उपायों  of  आय   .
कि  the size of a  household  is not commonly taken  into  account in such measures  may  distort  कोई  analysis  of   fluctuations  within or among the household income categories , and may render  सीधा  comparisons between  quintiles  difficult or even impossible .
A  पंजीकृत  agent , also known as a resident agent or  statutory   एजेंट  , in United States business  विधि  ,  is  a business or  व्यक्तिगत  designated to receive service of process ( SOP )  जब  a  कारोबार   एंटिटी  is a party in  a   विधिक  action  ऐसे   as   a   मुकदमा  or summons .
The registered  एजेंट  's  पता  may also be where the state will  भेजें   the  paperwork for the yearly  नवीकरण   of   the  business entity 's charter  .
The  पंजीकृत  agent for a business  एंटिटी  may be an individual member of the  कम्पनी  , or  (  more often ) a third party ,  ऐसे   as   the  organization 's lawyer or a  सेवा  company  .
विफलता   to  properly maintain a registered agent can affect a company  negatively   .
Office  लिये   आपात  Management .
Office of War  सूचना  war poster 1941 -  1945
`` Life , Liberty  ,  and the  pursuit   of  Happiness '' is  a  well-known phrase  in   the  United  राज्य   घोषणा  of Independence .
The phrase  is  meant  to  exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' with which  सब   इंसान  beings are endowed by their creator for their protection of which  वे  institute governments .
तलवारबाजी   ,  is typically divided into Olympic fencing , Classical fencing and historical fencing  ,   .
the  sport of fencing ( commonly  पुकारा  olympic fencing or  प्रतिस्पर्धी  fencing ) is divided into  तीन  weapon categories :  foil  ,  सब्रे  and épée .
Classical  तलवारबाजी  uses the same three weapons  ,  but  approaches   तलवारबाजी  as  a   martial  art .
प्रतिस्पर्धी   तलवारबाजी  is one  of  five sports which has been featured at every one of the modern  ओलम्पिक  Games ,  the  other four being Athletics  ,   साइकिलिंग  , Swimming  ,  and Gymnastics  .
the  quadriceps femoris  (   लैटिन   लिये   ``   four-headed  muscle  of   the  femur ``  )  , also called simply the quadriceps ,  quadriceps   extensor  , quads ,  is   a  large muscle group that includes  the  four prevailing muscles  on  the front  of  the  जांघ  .
it   is   the  great  extensor   मांसपेशी   of  the knee , forming a large  मांसल  mass which covers the  सामने  and sides of the femur .
The proper  लैटिन  plural form  of  the  क्रियाशील  quadriceps would  be   quadricipites   .
In  आधुनिक   अंग्रेज़ी   उपयोग  , quadriceps is used  in   दोनो  singular and  बहुवचन   .
The singular form quadricep  ,   उत्पादित   by  hypercorrection  ,  is frequently used .
rms   टाइटैनिक   थी  a British passenger liner that  sank  in the North Atlantic Ocean on 15 April 1912 after  colliding  with an iceberg during  उसके  maiden  voyage  from  southampton   ,  UK to New York City , US  .
The sinking of Titanic  caused   the  deaths of 1,502  लोगों  in one of the  deadliest  peacetime  मेरीटाइम  disasters in  आधुनिक  history  .
The RMS  टाइटैनिक  was the  largest  ship afloat  at  the time of  उसके  maiden  voyage  .
वो   थी  the second of three  ओलम्पिक  class ocean liners  संचालित  by the White Star  लकीर  ,  और   वो   थी   निर्मित  by the Harland and Wolff  डॉकयार्ड  in Belfast with  थामस   एंड्रयूज   ,  who  perished  with the ship , as her naval architect  .
On her  maiden  voyage , she carried 2,224 passengers and  क्रू  .
Under the command  of  Edward  स्मिथ   ,   उसके  passengers included some of  the   wealthiest  people in the world  ,  as well as  सैंकड़ों  of  emigrants  from  ग्रेट  Britain  और   आयरलैंड  , Scandinavia  और   elsewhere  throughout  यूरोपीय  seeking a new life in  उत्तर  America .
The ship was designed to be  the  last word in comfort and  लक्ज़री  ,  साथ  an on-board gymnasium ,  तैराकी  pool , libraries  ,  high-class restaurants and opulent  केबिन   .
वो   भी   था  a  शक्तिशाली  wireless telegraph provided for the convenience of passengers as  खूब   as   लिये  operational  उपयोग  .
Though  वो   था  advanced safety features such as watertight compartments  और  remotely activated watertight  द्वार  ,  वो  lacked enough  lifeboats   to   accommodate  all of those aboard .
Because of  outdated   मेरीटाइम  safety regulations ,  वो  carried only enough lifeboats for 1,178  people—slightly  more  than  half of the number  यात्राएं   on  the  maiden  voyage  ,   और  one-third her  कुल   यात्री   और   क्रू  capacity .
After  leaving   southampton  on 10 April 1912 , Titanic called at Cherbourg  in   फ़्रांस  and Queenstown ( now Cobh  )  in  आयरलैंड  before heading  westwards  towards  नई   यॉर्क  .
on   14   अप्रैल  1912 , four days  into  the crossing and about 375 miles (  600  km ) south  of  Newfoundland ,  वो  hit an  हिमशैल   at  11:40 pm ship 's time .
The glancing  टक्कर  caused  titanics  hull  प्लेटों   to  buckle  inwards  along her starboard side and opened  पाँच  of  उसके  sixteen watertight compartments to  the  sea  ;  the ship gradually  भर   साथ  water .
Meanwhile ,  यात्री   और   कुछ   क्रू  members were evacuated  in  lifeboats , many of  जिससे  were  शुभारम्भ   तभी   partly  loaded .
A disproportionate number of men  यहूद  left aboard  क्युकी  of a ``  महिलाओं  and  children  first `` protocol followed  by  some  of  the  अधिकारियों  loading the lifeboats .
By 2:20 AM , she broke apart and  foundered  , with well over one  हजार   लोगों  still aboard .
Just  अंतर्गत   दो   घंटों   बाद  the Titanic foundered , the Cunard liner RMS Carpathia  arrived  on the  झाँकी  of  the   डूब  , where she brought  सवार   an  estimated 705  survivors  .
the  disaster  थी  greeted with worldwide shock and outrage at the huge loss of life  और   the  regulatory  और  operational  असफलताओं  that  था   led   to  it  .
Public inquiries in  ब्रिटेन  and  the  United States led  to   प्रमुख   सुधार  in maritime safety .
One of their most important legacies was  the  establishment  in  1914  of   the  International Convention  लिये  the Safety  of  Life at Sea ( SOLAS ) , which still governs maritime safety today .
additionally  , several  नई  wireless regulations were passed around  the   संसार   in  an effort  to  learn from the many  missteps   in   बेतार  communications -- -which could have  saved  many more passengers  .
Many of the survivors  खोया  all of their money and  possessions  and were left destitute  ;  many  परिवारों   ,  particularly those  of  crew members from Southampton , lost their primary bread-winners  .
They were helped by an outpouring  of  public sympathy  और  charitable  दान  .
Some of the male  survivors  were accused  of  cowardice  लिये  leaving  the  ship while people were  स्टिल  on  फलक   ;   the   श्वेत  Star Line 's  अध्यक्ष  , J. Bruce Ismay , faced social  ostracism  for the  बाकी  of  उसके   जीवन  .
the  wreck of the Titanic  remains   on   the  seabed ,  विभाजित  in two and  धीरे  disintegrating at a  गहराई   of  .
चूंकि  its discovery in 1985 ,  हज़ारों  of artefacts  have   महरूम   बरामद  and put on display at museums  around   the  world  .
टाइटैनिक  has become one  of  the most famous ships in history ,  उसके   मेमोरी  kept  जिंदा  by numerous books , folk  गीतों   ,  films  ,   दर्शाती  , and memorials .
The human leg  is  the entire  निम्नतर  extremity or  limb   of   the  human  देह  , including the foot  ,  thigh and even the hip or gluteal region  ;   however  , the  precise   परिभाषा   in  human anatomy refers only to the section  of  the  निम्नतर  limb extending from  the  knee to the ankle .
टाँगे  are  प्रयुक्त  for standing  ,  walking  ,   कूद   ,  running ,  kicking  , and similar  क्रियाएँ  ,  और  constitute  a   significant  portion  of   a   व्यक्ति   's   द्रव्यमान  .
इस   आलेख  is about the demographic features of  the  population of  तुर्कों  , including population density , ethnicity , education level  ,  health of the  populace   ,   आर्थिक   औकात   ,  religious affiliations and  अन्य  aspects of the  जनसांख्यिकी  .
as  of 2010 , the population of Turkey is estimated  to  be  73.7   लाख  with a growth  रेट  of  1.21  %  प्रति  annum ( 2009  फिगर  )  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  is relatively  यंग  with 26.6 %  गिरना  in the  0-14  age  कोष्ठक  .
According to the OECD/World Bank  जनसांख्यिकी  statistics in  तुर्कों   the  population  विकास  from  1990  to 2008 was  16   लाख  or 29 % .
1998  bmw  750iL
Buick Roadmaster
a   full-size  car is  a  marketing term used in  उत्तर  America for  an  automobile  larger  than a mid-size car .
in  the United States ,  the   epa   उपयोग   the  term `` large car  ''   to  denote  full-size  cars .
Joel Grey ( born April 11  ,  1932 )  is  an American stage and  स्क्रीन   कर्ता  , singer  ,  and dancer , known for his role as the Master of Ceremonies in both  the  stage and film  अनुकूलन  of the Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret .
He has won  the  Academy  पुरस्कार   ,   टोनी  Award and Golden Globe Award  .
He  भी  originated the role of George M. Cohan in  the  musical George M  !
in  1973  ,  the Wizard in  the  musical Wicked .
Grey also starred  in   the   ब्रॉडवे  revivals of Anything Goes  as  Moonface  मार्टिन  , and  शिकागो   as  Amos  हार्ट   .
James Madison  ,  Jr. ( March 16  ,  1751 ( O.S .  कूच   5   )  – June 28 , 1836  )  was  an  American statesman  और  political theorist , the fourth President of  the  United  राज्य  ( 1809–1817 )  .
He  is  hailed as the “Father  of  the Constitution” for  होने  instrumental in  the   drafting  of the United States Constitution and as  the   कुंजी  champion and author  of  the United States Bill  of  Rights .
He served as a politician much  of  his  वयस्क   जीवन   .
After  the  constitution had been drafted  ,  Madison became  एक  of  the  leaders in the movement to ratify  it  .
His collaboration with Alexander Hamilton  और  John Jay produced the Federalist  papers  ( 1788 ) .
Circulated only  in   नई  York  at  the  समय  , they would later be considered  among   the  most important polemics in support  of  the Constitution  .
He was also a  प्रतिनिधि   to  the Virginia constitutional  ratifying  convention  ,   और   थी  instrumental to  the  successful ratification  प्रयत्न  in Virginia .
जैसे  most  of   उसके  contemporaries  ,  Madison changed his political views  दौरान  his life .
During  the   drafting   और   अनुसमर्थन   of  the constitution , he favored  a   दमदार   नेशनल  government , though later he grew  to  favor stronger  राज्य  governments ,  पहले  settling between  the  two extremes  लेट  in his life .
In 1789 ,  मैडिसन   became  a leader  in  the new House  of   प्रतिनिधि   ,   drafting  many  मौलिक  laws .
he  is notable for drafting the  पहला  ten amendments to  the  Constitution , and thus  is   ज्ञात  as the `` Father  of  the  विधेयक   of  Rights  ``  .
Madison  worked   closely  with  अध्यक्ष  George  वॉशिंगटन  to organize the new federal government  .
Breaking with Hamilton and  कया   became  the  federalist  Party in  1791  , Madison and Thomas  जेफरसन  organized what they  पुकारा   the  Republican Party (  बाद  called  by  historians the  democratic-republican  Party )
As  jefferson’s   सचिव  of State (  1801–1809  ) ,  मैडिसन  supervised the  louisiana  Purchase , which doubled the  nation’s  size .
After  उसके  election to  the   प्रेसिडेंसी  , he  presided   over   नवीनीकृत  prosperity  लिये  several years .
as  president (  1809–17  ) ,  बाद  the failure  of  diplomatic  विरोध  and  a   व्यापार  embargo against Great  ब्रिटेन  , he led  the   स्वदेश  into the War of 1812  .
He  थी   responding  to British encroachments on American honor and rights  ;   in  addition , he wanted to end  the  influence  of   the   अंग्रेजों   among  their  भारतीय   allies  ,  जिनकी  resistance blocked  संयुक्त  States settlement in the Midwest around the  ग्रेट  Lakes .
Madison  मिला  the war to be  an  administrative nightmare , as  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  had neither a strong  फौज  nor financial  प्रणाली  ; as a result  ,   he  afterward  समर्थित  a stronger national  सरकारी   और   a  strong military  ,  as well as the national  बैंको  ,  जिससे  he had long  opposed  .
जैसे  other  वर्जिनिया  statesmen  in  the slave society  ,  he was a slaveholder who  inherited  his plantation known as  montpelier   ,   और  owned hundreds of slaves  दौरान  his lifetime to cultivate  तम्बाकू  and other  फसलों   .
Madison supported the three-fifths compromise  कि   अनुमत  three-fifths  of  the enumerated population of slaves  to   be  counted  लिये  representation .
``  रोमन  's Revenge ''  is   a  song performed by American rapper  निकी  Minaj from her debut  स्टुडियो   एल्बम  Pink Friday  .
It was  लिखा  by  minaj  and rapper  एमिनेम  ,  जो  is also featured  in  the song , and  थी   उत्पादित  by Swizz Beatz .
It was  released  exclusively on October 30 , 2010  through   the   us   itunes  Store , as a promotional release  preceding  the album 's release .
the   सोंग   initiated   a  feud between Lil ' Kim and Minaj  ,  where many  लोगों  felt  the   सोंग   थी  directed  at  Lil  '  Kim  और   regarded  around her feelings towards Minaj 's  वृद्धि   to  fame .
The song references  minaj  's alter-ego , Roman Zolanski , and Eminem 's alter-ego , Slim Shady .
the  song  garnered  very positive reviews from critics , most of which praised the  सोंग   as   a  stand-out  track  on the album .
An official remix featuring  minaj   's  mentor , Lil  वेन  , was released  to  the  us  iTunes  स्टोर  on January 19 , 2011  .
The  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल  was used  in   the  song 'Firing Squad '  by   नाल  G.A.N.G  .
Hydraulic  द्रव  being poured .
हाइड्रोलिक  fluids , also called hydraulic liquids , are the  मीडियम  by which power is  transferred  in hydraulic machinery .
Common  हाइड्रोलिक   fluids  are based on mineral oil  or   जल  .
उदाहरण  of equipment that might use hydraulic fluids include excavators  और  backhoes , hydraulic brakes ,  शक्ति  steering  प्रणालियों  ,  ट्रांसमिशन   ,  garbage trucks ,  वायुयान  flight  कंट्रोल  systems , lifts  ,  and industrial machinery .
Hydraulic systems  जैसे  the ones mentioned  ऊपर  will work most efficiently  if  the hydraulic  द्रव  used has no compressibility
महिंद्रा  Tractor
Mahindra Tractors , the  फार्म   उपकरण   प्रभाग  of Mahindra &  महिंद्रा  , builds and  स्त्रोत   tractors  that are sold  विश्वव्यापी  across  छह   महाद्वीपों  .
Mahindra is also  among  the top  तीन  tractor  निर्माताओं   in  the world  .
Mahindra has  a   विशाल  consumer base  in  India , China and America and a growing base in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
the   कम्पनी  builds more tractors in  इण्डिया   than  any other manufacturer  ,   और   रै  the  क्षमता   to  build 150,000 tractors a year .
In 1963 , M  &   m  formed  a   संयुक्त  venture with International Harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the Mahindra nameplate  लिये  the Indian  मार्केट  .
Armed  साथ   अभियान्त्रिकी   ,  tooling and manufacturing know-how  gained  from this relationship , M & M developed its first tractor  ,   the   b-275   .
Mahindra  tractors  with sales  of  nearly 85,000 units annually is one of the largest tractor companies  in  the world ,  और  is  क्रमांक   एक   in  sales  in   इण्डिया  - the largest  ट्रैक्टर   मार्केट  in the  संसार   .
To expand into  the  growing tractor market in  चीन  , Mahindra acquired majority stake  in  Jiangling .
to  raise awareness about  महिंद्रा  in the US ,  महिंद्रा   यूएसए   घोषित  its new  प्रायोजन  in  the  NASCAR Nationwide Series  साथ   r3  Motorsports ,  जिससे  is  participating  with a  #  23 Mahindra Tractors  शेवरलेट  .
The car will be driven  by  Robert  रिचर्डसन  , Jr.  महिंद्रा  USA ,  inc.   घोषित   a  17-race  प्राथमिक   और  18-race associate  प्रायोजन  for the 2009 NASCAR Nationwide Series  .
With  इस  sponsorship ,  महिंद्रा   थी  the  पहला   भारतीय  company  to   प्रायोजक  a car in NASCAR  .
In  2008  , Mahindra was a sponsor of  the   मैकडोनाल्ड  Motorsports team which ran  the  # 81  car  in  the  NASCAR Nationwide Series .
the  POWER6 is  a   माइक्रोप्रोसेसर  developed  by  IBM that implemented  the  Power ISA v.2.03  .
When  it   became  available in  प्रणालियों  in 2007 , it succeeded the  शक्ति5+   as   ibm  's flagship Power  माइक्रोप्रोसेसर  .
it  is part of the eCLipz  प्रोजेक्ट  ,  कहा  to have  a  goal  of   converging  IBM 's  सर्वर  hardware where practical  (   hence  `` ipz ''  in   the  acronym : iSeries , pSeries  ,   और  zSeries )  .
The American middle  क्लास  is a social class  in  the United States .
While the concept  is  typically  अस्पष्ट   in  popular  राय  and  आम  language use  ,  contemporary social scientists have put  आगे  several , more or less congruent  ,  theories  on  the  अमरीकी  middle class .
Depending on  क्लास  model used  ,   the  middle  क्लास  may  constitute  anywhere from 25  %   to  66  %   of  households .
One of the first major studies of the middle class  in   अमेरिका  was  श्वेत  Collar : The American Middle Classes  ,  published in 1951  by  sociologist C. Wright Wright_Mills  मिलों  Wright_Mills  .
Later  sociologists  such as Dennis  गिल्बर्ट  of Hamilton College commonly divide the middle class into  दो   sub-groups  .
Constituting roughly  15  %  to  20 % of households is the upper or  पेशेवर  middle class  consisting  of highly educated , salaried  पेशेवर  and managers  .
constituting   roughly  one  तीसरा   of   households  is the  निम्नतर  middle class  consisting   ज़्यादातर  of semi-professionals ,  skilled   कारीगरों  and lower-level management .
Middle-class persons commonly  have  a comfortable standard  of  living ,  significant  economic  सुरक्षा  , considerable work autonomy and rely on their expertise to  sustain  themselves  .
सदस्यों   of   the   मध्य  class belong to diverse groups  जिससे   ओवरलैप   साथ  each other  .
Overall  ,  middle-class  व्यक्तियों  , especially  upper-middle-class  individuals , are characterized by conceptualizing  ,  creating  और   परामर्श  .
Thus , college  शिक्षा  is  एक  of the main  indicators   of   middle-class   औकात  .
Largely attributed to  the  nature  of  middle-class occupations , middle class values tend to emphasize  स्वतंत्रता  , adherence to intrinsic standards , valuing innovation and respecting  non-conformity  .
नीतियां   अधिक  active than other demographics ,  कॉलेज  educated middle class professionals  हैं  split between the two  प्रमुख  parties  .
Income varies considerably  इससे   निकट  the national median to well in excess of  $   100,000  .
Household income  आंकड़े   ,  however ,  do  not  सदा  reflect class status and standard  of  living  ,  as they are  largely   बहकावे  by  the  number of income earners and fail to recognize household size .
It is therefore possible  लिये   a  large ,  dual-earner  ,  निम्नतर   मध्य  class household to out-earn  a  small  ,  one-earner  ,  upper  मध्य  class household .
the   मध्य  classes are very  influential  ,  as   वे  encompass  the  majority of voters ,  लेखक   ,  teachers  ,  journalists , and editors  .
Most societal  रुझान  in the US originate  भीतर  the  मध्य   वर्ग   .
The following is a  सूची  of Saturday  रात्रि  Live  डाल   सदस्यों   ,  past and present  .
The cast members of Saturday  रात्रि  Live were originally  referred  to as  the  ``  नहीं  Ready  लिये   प्रधान  Time  खिलाड़ी  '' .
The original  डाल  ( l to r ) :  laraine   न्युमैन  , John Belushi ,  जेन  Curtin , Gilda Radner  ,  Dan Aykroyd , Garrett Morris ,  और  Chevy Chase
तबाह   इससे   the  1906 San Francisco  भूकंप  , remembered as one of  the  worst  प्राकृतिक  disasters in  संयुक्त   राज्य  history
A disaster  is   a   प्राकृतिक  or man-made ( or technological )  जोखिम   resulting  in an event  of  substantial extent  causing  significant physical  क्षति  or destruction ,  घाटा  of life , or drastic  बदलें  to the environment  .
a  disaster can be  ostensively  defined  as   कोई  tragic  इवेंट   stemming  from  कार्यक्रम  such as earthquakes  ,  floods  ,  catastrophic accidents  ,   फ़ायर  , or  विस्फोट  .
It is a phenomenon  कि  can cause  क्षति  to life and property  और   नष्ट  the economic , social and cultural life  of  people .
in   समकालीन  academia , disasters  हैं   देखी  as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk .
These risks are  the   उत्पाद  of a  संयोजन   of   दोनो  hazard/s  और  vulnerability  .
Hazards that  स्ट्राइक  in areas with  कम  vulnerability will  never   become  disasters , as is the case in uninhabited regions .
Developing countries  suffer  the greatest costs when  a  disaster hits  –   अधिक  than 95 percent of all deaths caused by disasters occur in developing countries , and  नुकसान  due to  प्राकृतिक  disasters are 20 times greater ( as a percentage of  जीडीपी   )  in developing  देशों  than in  industrialized  countries .
in  computing ,  booting   (   भी  known as booting up ) is the  आरंभिक   नियत   of   परिचालन  that a computer system  performs  when  विद्युत  power to the CPU is switched  on  .
The  प्रक्रम  begins  जब  a computer is  turned  on for the  पहला   समय  or is re-energized  बाद   होने  turned  बंद   ,   और  ends when the computer is ready  to  perform its  सामान्य  operations .
On modern  सामान्य  purpose  कंप्यूटर   ,  this can  लो  tens of seconds  और   typically   involves  performing  a  power-on self-test ,  locating   और  initializing  परिधीय  devices  ,   और  then finding , loading and  starting  an operating  प्रणाली  .
Many computer systems also allow these operations to be initiated by a software command without cycling  शक्ति  , in what  is  known  as  a soft reboot , though some  of  the initial  परिचालन   might  be skipped on  a   नरम  reboot .
A boot  लोडर  is a  कंप्यूटर  program  कि  loads the  प्रमुख   ऑपरेटिंग   प्रणाली   or   runtime   पर्यावरण  for  the  computer after completion  of  the  self-tests  .
The computer term boot is short for bootstrap  or  bootstrap load and derives  इससे  the phrase to pull oneself  up  by one 's bootstraps .
The usage calls  ध्यान  to the requirement that , if  सबसे  software is loaded  onto   a   कंप्यूटर  by  अन्य  software  already   कार्यशील  on the  कंप्यूटर   ,  some mechanism  जरूर  exist to load  आरंभिक  software  onto  the computer .
जल्दी   कंप्यूटर  used a variety of  ad-hoc  methods to  मिलेंगी  a small program into memory to  solve  this problem .
The  आविष्कार   of  integrated  सर्किट   read-only  memory ( ROM  )   of  various  प्रकार   हल  this paradox by allowing computers to  be   shipped  with a start up program that  could  not be erased .
विकास  in  the  capacity of ROM has allowed  कभी  more elaborate start up  प्रक्रियाओं  to  be  implemented .
On  सामान्य  purpose computers , the boot process  begins  with the  निष्पादन  of an initial program stored in boot ROMs or  पढ़ा  in another fashion .
In  कुछ  older  कंप्यूटर   ,  the initial program might  have  been the  अनुप्रयोग  to run , if  no  operating system  थी  used , or the  ऑपरेटिंग  system .
In other computers  ,  the initial  कार्यक्रम  is a boot  लोडर  that  may  then load  into  random-access memory ( RAM ) , from nonvolatile secondary storage  (   ऐसे  as  a  hard  डिस्क  drive ) or , in some  पुरानी   कंप्यूटर  , from  a   मीडियम  such  as  punched  ताश  , punched tape  ,  or magnetic tape  in  older  कंप्यूटर   ,   the  binary code of an operating  प्रणाली   or  runtime  पर्यावरण  and  तब  execute  it   .
if  the boot loader is  सीमित  in its  आकार  and capabilities , it  may   ,  instead ,  लोड   a  larger and more  सक्षम  secondary boot loader , which would then load  the   ऑपरेटिंग   प्रणाली  or  runtime  environment .
Some embedded systems do not  आवश्यकता   a  noticeable boot sequence to begin functioning and when  turned  on may simply run  operational  programs  कि   हैं   भंडारित  in ROM .
Firebird  is  an  खोलें  source  एसक्यूएल   रिलेशनल   डेटाबेस  management system that runs on  लिनक्स   ,   खिड़कियाँ  , and  a  variety of Unix .
The  डेटाबेस   forked  from Borland 's open  सोर्स  edition  of   interbase   in   2000  , but since  firebird   1.5   the   कोड  has  महरूम  largely rewritten .
Outsourcing is  the  contracting  आउट  of an internal business process to a  third-party   संगठन   .
The practice of contracting a  कारोबार  process out to a third party rather  than  staffing it internally is  आम   in   the  modern economy .
the   पद  ``  आउटसोर्सिंग   ''   became   लोकप्रिय  in the United States near  the   फेरे  of the  21st  century .
Outsourcing  sometimes  involves transferring employees  और   एसेट   इससे   एक  firm to  another   ,   लकिन  not always  .
The definition  of  outsourcing includes both foreign  और  domestic  contracting  ,  और   sometimes  includes offshoring , which means relocating a business  फलन  to another country  .
Financial savings from lower  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   मजदूर  rates is a big motivation  लिये  outsourcing/offshoring .
The opposite of  आउटसोर्सिंग   is  called insourcing , which entails bringing processes handled by third-party firms in-house , and  is  sometimes accomplished via vertical  संयोजन   .
However  ,  a business can provide a contract  सेवा  to  another  business without necessarily insourcing that business process .
Human immunodeficiency virus  (  HIV )  is  a lentivirus ( slowly replicating  retrovirus  ) that  कल्याणकारी   acquired  immunodeficiency syndrome  (  AIDS  )  , a condition in humans in which progressive  विफलता  of the immune  प्रणाली   allows  life-threatening  opportunistic  infections and  cancers  to  thrive  .
संक्रमण  with HIV occurs by the transfer of blood , semen , vaginal  द्रव  ,  pre-ejaculate  , or breast milk .
भीतर  these bodily fluids ,  hiv  is  उपस्थित  as  दोनो  free virus particles and  वायरस  within infected immune cells  .
hiv  infects vital  कोशिकाएं  in the human  प्रतिरक्षा  system  ऐसे  as helper T cells  (  specifically  cd4   +  T  कोशिकाएं  )  ,   macrophages  , and dendritic cells  .
HIV infection  लीड   to  low levels  of  CD4+ T cells through  a  number of mechanisms including : apoptosis  of  uninfected bystander  कोशिकाएं  ,  सीधा  viral  हत्या  of infected cells , and killing of  संक्रमित  CD4+ T cells  by   cd8   cytotoxic   lymphocytes  that  recognize  infected cells .
When  cd4+  T  कोशिका  numbers decline below a critical level ,  cell-mediated  immunity is  खोया  , and the  देह  becomes progressively more susceptible to opportunistic infections  .
The firepole in a fire station in Toronto
A fireman 's pole (  भी  called  a   स्लाइडिंग   ध्रुव  or firepole  )  is a wooden pole or  a  metal  ट्यूब  or  पाइप  installed between floors  in  fire stations , allowing  अग्निशमन   responding  to an alarm to quickly descend  to   the   मैदान   मंजिल  faster than by  using  a  मानक  staircase  .
The  यंत्र  was invented in  the  1870s by David  kenyon  , in Chicago ,  इलिनोइस  , although it  is  often incorrectly  credited  to  the   बोस्टन  Fire Department .
Mary  poppins  is  the  title character of a series of children 's books  लिखा   by  P. L. Travers .
Throughout the Mary  poppins   श्रेणी   ,   जिससे   lasted  from  1934  to 1988 ,  मरियम  Shepard was the illustrator and  acted   as  a second author  .
The books centre on a magical English nanny , Mary Poppins .
She is blown by the  ईस्ट  wind to Number Seventeen  चेरी   पेड़  Lane  ,  London , and into the Banks ' household  to  care for  उनके  children .
Encounters with chimney sweeps  ,   दुकानदारों   और   विभिन्न  adventures  follow  until Mary Poppins abruptly  पत्ते   ,  i.e. , `` pops-out '' .
the  adventures  लो  place over a total of eight books .
However  ,  only the first three  किताबे  feature Mary Poppins arriving  और  leaving .
The  बाद  five books recount previously unrecorded adventures  इससे  her original three  विज़िट   .
as  P. L. Travers explains  in   उसके   परिचय  to Mary Poppins in  the  Park  ,  `` She can  नहीं  forever arrive  और  depart . ''
The books  यहूद  adapted  in  1964 into a  musical   डिज़्नी  film starring Julie Andrews and Dick Van  dyke  .
In 2004 , Disney  नाट्य  produced a stage musical adaptation in the West End theatre  .
The stage musical was  transferred  to Broadway in 2006  जहाँ  it ran until  इसके   closing  on March 3 , 2013  .
It has been  अत्यधिक  successful  ,  as was the  1964   फिल्मी  .
The Last Song is a 2010 American coming of age  टीन   रोमांटिक  drama  फिल्मी  developed alongside Nicholas Sparks ' novel by the  वही  name  .
the   फिल्मी  was  निर्देशित  by Julie Anne  रॉबिन्सन  in her  विशेषता  film directorial debut and co-written by  स्पार्क्स   और   जेफ़  Van Wie  .
the  Last Song  सितारों  Miley Cyrus ,  लियाम  Hemsworth , and Greg Kinnear and follows a  troubled  teenager as she reconnects with her estranged  पिता   और  falls in  प्रेम  during a  गर्मियाँ   in  a quiet  दक्षिणी  United States beach town  .
The  फिल्मी  is distributed  by  Touchstone  तस्वीरें  .
स्पार्क्स  was  approached   to  write both the film 's screenplay and  the  novel .
Sparks completed  the   पटकथा  in  जनवरी   2009  , prior to the  पूर्णता   of  the novel  ,  making The Last Song his first script to be optioned for film  .
the  setting  ,  originally in North Carolina  जैसे  the  अनोखा  , moved  to  Georgia after the states had campaigned for months to host production  .
upon  beginning production in Tybee Island , Georgia and nearby Savannah , The  पिछला   सोंग   became  the first movie  to  be both shot and  नियत  in Tybee Island .
Filming lasted from  जून   15  to August  18  , 2009  साथ  much  of  it  occurring  on the island 's  बीच  and pier .
The Last  सोंग  was originally scheduled for  चौड़ी   रिलीज  on January  8   ,  2010  ,  but was postponed to  कूच  31 , 2010 .
Written  simlish
simlish   is   a  fictional language featured  in   ea  Games ' Sim  श्रेणी   of  games  .
It  debuted  in SimCopter  ,   और  has been  विशेषकर   prominent   in  The Sims  ,  The Sims  2  and The Sims 3 .
The Sims  विकास  team created the unique Simlish language by experimenting  साथ  fractured Ukrainian , French ,  लैटिन  , Finnish  ,  English , Fijian  ,  Cebuano ,  और  Tagalog  .
Simlish can also be heard in SimCity 4  ,  SimCity  समाजों  and SimCity 2013 , but far  कम   अक्सर  .
Civilized Creatures in  spore   can  also be taught to speak Simlish .
It is also featured to an extent  in   firaxis   खेल  '  सिड  Meier  's  SimGolf .
Designer Will Wright was  सचेत   of   the  need for dialogue in the  खेल   ,  but thought that using a real language would make  it  sound  too   दोहराए  and would also be  too  costly to hire translators for  संसार  languages .
Initially ,  प्रेरित  by the Native American code  talkers  of World  युद्ध  II  ,  Sims  निर्माता  Will Wright and language  विशेषज्ञ  Marc Gimbel suggested experimenting  साथ  the Navajo language  to  create  simlish   .
however  , they ultimately  decided  that Simlish worked best as  a  `` language '' made  up   of  gibberish  शब्द  that  could   n't  be translated , so  कि   इसके  meaning would be left open to  the  imagination of  the  player .
Wright later  commented  that using  ``  nonsense language ''  turned   आउट   to   be   the  right  विकास   चुनाव  , as people were capable of  imagining  it more  realistically   than  a computer could  सिमुलेट  a real  एक  .
The actual  ध्वनि  of Simlish was  निर्मित  improvisationally by voice actors  स्टीफन  Kearin  और   gerri  Lawlor  .
An  उदाहरण  of  अल्ट्रासोनिक   परीक्षण  ( UT  )   on  blade roots of a  v2500  IAE aircraft  इंजन  .
Step 1 : The UT  जांच   is   लगाई   on   the   रूट   of  the blades to be  inspected   साथ  the help of  a   खास   borescope  tool ( video probe ) .
Step 2  :  Instrument  जमावट  are  इनपुट  .
Step 3 : The probe  is  scanned over the blade root  .
In  इस  case , an indication ( peak in the  आंकड़ा   )  through the red line  (   or   फाटक  )  indicates  a  शुभ   ब्लेड  ; an indication to the left  of  that range indicates a  क्रैक  .
Principle of ultrasonic testing .
LEFT  :  A probe sends  a  sound  वेव  into a test material .
There  हैं  two  indications   ,  one  इससे  the  आरंभिक  pulse of the probe  ,  and  the  second due to the back wall echo .
RIGHT : A defect creates a third indication and  simultaneously  reduces the amplitude of the back  वॉल  indication  .
The depth  of  the  defect  is  संकल्पित  by the ratio D/E
in   अल्ट्रासोनिक   परीक्षण  ( UT ) , very short ultrasonic pulse-waves with  बीच  frequencies  ranging  from  0.1-15  MHz  और  occasionally  up  to 50 MHz are launched into  सामग्री   to  detect  आतंरिक  flaws or to  characterize   सामग्री   .
A  आम   उदाहरण  is  अल्ट्रासोनिक  thickness measurement , which tests the thickness  of  the test object  ,  for example , to monitor pipework  संक्षारण   .
Ultrasonic  परीक्षण   is  often performed on steel and other metals  और   alloys   ,  though it  can  also  be   प्रयुक्त  on concrete , wood and  composites  , albeit  साथ  less resolution  .
it  is a form of non-destructive testing used in many industries including  aerospace   ,   ऑटोमोटिव  and other transportation sectors  .
the   vas  deferens ( plural : vasa  deferentia   )  ,  भी  called ductus deferens  (  Latin : `` carrying-away  पोत  '' ; plural  :  ductus deferentes )  ,  is  भाग  of the  पुरूष  anatomy of many vertebrates  ;  they  हस्तांतरण  sperm from the  epididymis  in anticipation of ejaculation .
Vascular ischemia of the  toes  with characteristic  cyanosis  .
in  medicine ,  ischemia   ,  also spelled  as  ischaemia  or  ischæmia  ,  ( ; from  यूनानी  language ισχαιμία , ischaimía ; isch-  रूट   denoting  a restriction or  thinning   or  to  मेक  or grow thin/lean  ,  haema blood  )  is  a  restriction in  रक्त  supply to tissues  ,   causing  a  shortage  of oxygen  और   ग्लूकोज  needed  लिये   सेल्यूलर  metabolism  (  to keep  ऊतक   जिंदा   )   .
Ischemia is generally caused by  समस्याएं  with blood vessels , with  resultant  damage to or  dysfunction  of tissue .
it  also  अर्थात्  local anemia in  a  given part  of  a body sometimes resulting from congestion  (   ऐसे  as vasoconstriction  ,  thrombosis  or  embolism  )  .
Down syndrome (  ds   )   or   bas   's   सिंड्रोम  ,  भी   ज्ञात  as  trisomy   21  , is a  जेनेटिक  disorder caused by  the  presence  of  all or  भाग  of a third  नक़ल  of chromosome 21  .
Down syndrome is the most common  chromosome  abnormality in  इंसानो  .
It is typically associated with a  विलंब  in cognitive  क्षमता   (  mental retardation ,  or  MR ) and physical growth , and a  particular   नियत  of facial  विशेषताएँ   .
The average  iq   of  young  वयस्कों  with  bas  syndrome is  around  50 , whereas young  वयस्कों   बगैर  the condition typically have an IQ of 100 .
(  MR has  historically  been defined as an  iq  below 70 . )
a  large proportion of individuals  साथ  Down syndrome  have  a  कठोर  degree  of  intellectual disability .
Down  सिंड्रोम  is  नामित   बाद  John Langdon Down , the British physician who described the syndrome in 1866 .
The  कंडीशन  was clinically  वर्णित   पहले  by  जां  Etienne Dominique Esquirol in 1838 and Edouard Seguin  in   1844  .
bas   सिंड्रोम  was  पहचाना  as a chromosome 21 trisomy by Dr. Jérôme Lejeune  in  1959 .
Down  सिंड्रोम  can  be  identified  in  a  baby  at birth or before birth  by  prenatal screening .
Pregnancies with this diagnosis  हैं   प्रायः   terminated  .
The  सीडीसी   estimates  that about one  of  every 691 babies born  in   the  United States  प्रत्येक  year  is   born  with Down  सिंड्रोम  .
Many children  साथ  Down syndrome are educated in regular school classes while others require specialised educational facilities .
Some  children  graduate from high school  ,   और  , in the US  ,   वहीँ  are increasing  अवसर  for participating  in   post-secondary   शिक्षा  .
Education and proper care has been  दिखाया  to  improve  quality of  जीवन   significantly   .
Many adults  साथ   bas   सिंड्रोम  are  समर्थ  to work at  सशुल्क   नियुक्ति   in   the  community ,  जबकि  others require a more sheltered  कार्य  environment  .
Hot flashes (  भी  known as hot  flushes  ,  or  night sweats if  वे  happen at  रात्रि  ) are a symptom which  may  have  अनेक  other  कल्याणकारी  , but which  is  often caused by  the  changing hormone levels  कि   हैं  characteristic  of  menopause  .
the  Servicemen 's  readjustment   अधिनियम  of  1944   (  P.L . 78-346 , 58  स्टेट   .  284m )  ,  known  informally  as  the  G.I . Bill , was a law that provided a range of benefits for returning World War II veterans (  commonly   referred  to  as   g.i.s  ) .
लाभ  included low-cost  mortgages   ,   low-interest  loans to start a business  or   फार्म  ,  नकदी   भुगतान  of  ट्यूशन  and living expenses  to   attend  college ,  ऊँची   स्कूल   or  vocational  शिक्षा  ,  as  well as one  साल   of  unemployment compensation .
it   थी  available  to  every veteran who had been on active  ड्यूटी  during the war years  लिये  at least  नब्बे  days  और  had not been dishonorably discharged ;  कॉम्बैट  was not required .
By  the  end  of  the  कार्यक्रम   in   1956  ,  roughly  2.2  लाख  veterans had used  the  G.I . Bill education benefits in  अनुक्रम  to attend colleges or universities  ,  and  an  additional 6.6  लाख  used these benefits for some kind of training  कार्यक्रम   .
Since the original 1944 law  ,  the term has  आइये  to include other  दिग्गज  benefit  कार्यक्रम  created to  assist  veterans of subsequent wars as well as peacetime service .
इतिहासकारों  and economists consider  the  G.I . Bill a major political success—especially in contrast  to  the treatments  of  World  युद्ध  I veterans—and  a  major  योगदान  to  अमेरिका  's  भण्डार   of  human capital that sped  long-term  economic growth .
the   वाटरगेट  scandal was a political  कांड  that occurred in  the  United States in the  1970s  as a  परिणाम   of  the June  17  , 1972 break-in at the Democratic  नेशनल  Committee headquarters  at  the Watergate office complex  in  Washington , D.C.  ,  and the Nixon administration 's attempted cover-up of its involvement  .
the  scandal  आखिरकार  led  to   the  resignation  of  Richard Nixon ,  the   अध्यक्ष   of  the United  राज्य  , on August 9 ,  1974  — the only resignation of  a  U.S. President .
The scandal  भी  resulted in the indictment , trial  ,   conviction  , and incarceration of forty-three persons , dozens  of  whom were Nixon 's top  प्रशासन  officials  .
the  affair  began  with the arrest of five men  लिये  breaking and entering  into   the  Democratic National  कमेटी   (  DNC )  मुख्यालय   at  the Watergate complex on June 17 ,  1972  .
the   संघीय  Bureau of  छानबीन  ( FBI ) connected cash  मिला  on the burglars to  a  slush  निधि   प्रयुक्त  by  the  Committee  लिये  the  re-election  of  the  President  ,  the  आधिकारिक  organization of Nixon 's campaign .
In  जुलाई   1973  , as evidence mounted against the president 's  स्टाफ  , including testimony provided by  पूर्व  staff members  in  an  छानबीन  conducted by the  सीनेट  Watergate Committee  ,  it  थी   नाज़िल   कि  President Nixon  था  a tape-recording system  in   उसके   कार्यालयों   और  he  था  recorded  अनेक   बातचीत  .
रिकार्डिंग  from these tapes  implicated  the president ,  revealing  he had attempted to cover up the questionable ( and illegal ) goings-on that had  लिया  place during  उसके  administration , both before and  बाद   the  break-in .
बाद  a protracted series of bitter court  लड़ाइयों  , the U.S.  परम्   अदालत   unanimously  ruled  कि   the  president had to hand over  the   टेपों   to  government investigators ; he  ultimately  complied  .
Facing near-certain impeachment in the House  of  Representatives  और  a strong possibility of  a   conviction   in  the Senate , Nixon resigned the presidency  on  August 9 , 1974 .
उसके   successor  ,  जेराल्ड   घाट   ,  then issued a pardon  to  him .
एलिज़ाबेथ  Imogene Webber  (  formerly Lansing  और  Spencer ) is a  fictional  character  on  the ABC  दिन  soap  ओपेरा  General  हॉस्पिटल  .
Elizabeth is the  पोती  of  dr.  Steve Hardy  (  John  beradino  ) ,  एक  of  the  originating core characters of the series .
Rebecca Herbst  originated  the character on August 1 , 1997 and has been the only  अनुबंध  actress to  खेल  the role .
एलिज़ाबेथ   is   भाग  of two supercouple pairings , Lucky Spencer  और  Elizabeth  webber  and Jason Morgan and Elizabeth  webber  .
the  United States  प्रेसिडेंसी  of Ronald Reagan ,  भी  known  as   the  Reagan administration ,  थी  a  रिपब्लिकन  administration headed by  रोनाल्ड  Reagan  इससे   जनवरी  20 , 1981 , to  जनवरी  20  ,   1989  .
Domestically , the administration  favored  reducing government  कार्यक्रम   और  introduced the largest  across-the-board   कर  cuts in American history .
The economic policies enacted  in   1981  , known  as  `` Reaganomics `` , were an example  of  supply-side economics  .
Reagan aimed  to  encourage entrepreneurship and limit  the   विकास  of  सोशल  spending , as well  as   the  reduction of  विनियमन   और  inflation  .
Economic  विकास  saw a  दमदार   रिकवरी   in  the  1980s  , helping Reagan to  जीत  a  भूस्खलन   re-election   .
The national debt increased  significantly  ,  however  .
regarding  foreign policy , the administration was  steadfastly  anti-communist  ,  calling the Soviet Union an ``  दुष्ट  empire `` and ending 1970s  détente  .
reagan   त्वरित  the massive buildup  of  the military started by his predecessor  ,  including an invasion of Grenada  ,   the  first  प्रमुख   विदेशी  action by U.S. troops since the end  of  the Vietnam War .
The  ``   reagan   doctrine  `` controversially granted aid  to  paramilitary forces  seeking  to overthrow  कम्युनिस्ट   सरकारें  , particularly in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan  .
Reagan also promoted new technologies  ऐसे  as  मिसाइल  defense  प्रणालियों   in   अनुक्रम  to confront  the   soviets  and their  allies  .
In  कूटनीति   ,  Reagan forged  a   दमदार  alliance with UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher , and he met  साथ  Soviet General Secretary Mikhail  गोर्बाचेव  four  टाइम्स  , aiming to shrink  the  superpowers ' nuclear  arsenals  .
Reagan 's  प्रेसिडेंसी  has  महरूम   termed   the  `` Reagan Revolution '' ,  or  the  आयु  of Reagan  in  recognition  of   the  political  realignment   दोनो  within and beyond the  u.S.   in  favor of his brand of  कोसा  and his faith in  फ़्री  markets .
The Reagan  प्रशासन   worked  toward  the   पतन   of  Soviet Communism ,  और  it did collapse just as  he   बाएँ   दफ्तर  .
Victory in the  ठंडा   युद्ध  led to a unipolar world with  the   u.S.   as  the world  's   एकमात्र  superpower  .
While the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed  अनेक   reagan  aides during his second term , Reagan himself left office with a 63 percent  स्वीकृति   दरजा  , one  of  the higher approval ratings  of  departing presidents .
After years  of   unstinting  praise from the right , and unrelenting criticism from  the  left , historian David  हेनरी  finds that by 2009 a consensus had emerged among  विद्वानों  that Reagan  revived  conservatism and  turned   the   स्वदेश  to the right by demonstrating a ``  pragmatic  conservatism '' that promoted ideology  भीतर  the constraints  imposed  by  the  divided political system .
Furthermore , says Henry , the consensus viewpoint agrees that he  revived  faith in the  प्रेसिडेंसी  and American self-confidence ,  और  contributed  critically   to  ending the Cold  युद्ध   .
Crude death rate by country  (   2006   )  .
Mortality rate is  a   माप  of  the  number of deaths ( in  सामान्य  , or  due   to  a specific  कारण  ) in a population .
Scaled to the size  of   कि  population ,  प्रति   ईकाई  of time .
Mortality rate  is  typically expressed in units  of  deaths  प्रति  1000 individuals  प्रति   साल  ; thus , a mortality  रेट   of  9.5 ( out of 1000 )  in  a population of  1,000  would mean  9.5  deaths per year in that  संपूर्ण   जनसांख्यिकी  ,  or  0.95 %  आउट  of  the  total .
it   is  distinct from morbidity rate , which  refers  to the number  of  individuals in  ग़रीब  health  दौरान  a  दिए   समय   काल  ( the prevalence rate  )  or  the  number of newly appearing cases  of   the  disease  प्रति  unit of  समय  ( incidence rate ) .
The term `` mortality  ``  is also sometimes inappropriately  प्रयुक्त  to refer to the number  of   मौतों  among a set of  diagnosed  hospital  मामले   लिये  a disease or injury , rather  than   लिये  the general population of a country  or   जातीय   समूह  .
इस   बीमारी   मृत्यु  statistic is more precisely referred  to   as  `` case  fatality  rate `` ( CFR  )  .
One distinguishes:
The  crude  death rate  ,   the   कुल   क्रमांक  of deaths per  साल  per  1000  people .
the  crude death rate for the  पूरे  world is about 8.37 per 1000 per  साल  according to the  वर्तमान  CIA World Factbook  .
The perinatal  मृत्यु  rate , the  योग   of   neonatal  deaths  और  fetal deaths ( stillbirths ) per 1000  births   .
the  maternal  मृत्यु  ratio , the  क्रमांक   of   मातृ  deaths per 100,000 live  births  in same  समय  period  .
the  maternal mortality rate  ,  the number of maternal  मौतों   प्रति  1,000  महिलाओं   of   reproductive   आयु  in the  जनसांख्यिकी  (  generally   पारिभाषित   as  15–44  सालो  of age  )  .
the   शिशु  mortality rate , the number of deaths of children less  than  1  साल  old per 1000  सजीव  births .
The  चाइल्ड   मृत्यु   रेट  , the number of deaths of children less than 5  सालो  old per  1000  live births .
The standardised mortality  अनुपात  (  smr   )  - This represents a proportional  तुलना  to  the   संख्याएँ  of deaths that would have  महरूम  expected  if   the  population had  महरूम  of a  मानक  composition in  शर्तें  of age , gender , etc .
The  age-specific  mortality rate  (  ASMR ) -  इस  refers  to   the  total number  of  deaths per year per  1000  people  of  a given age  (   e.g  .  आयु  62 last birthday  )  .
In regard to the or  विफलता  of medical  उपचार  or procedures ,  एक  would  भी  distinguish:
The early mortality rate , the  कुल   क्रमांक  of deaths in the  जल्दी  stages of  an  ongoing treatment , or in the  काल  immediately following an  उपचार   .
The late mortality rate  ,   the   कुल  number  of  deaths in  the  late stages of  an  ongoing treatment ,  or  a significant length  of  time  बाद   an   अधि  treatment .
Note  कि  the crude death rate  as   पारिभाषित  above  और  applied to a  पूरे  population can give a  भ्रामक  impression .
The crude death  रेट  depends  on   the   आयु  ( and  लिंग  )  विशिष्ट  mortality rates and the  आयु  (  और  gender ) distribution of  the  population .
The number of deaths per 1000  लोगों   can   be  higher for  विकसित   राष्ट्र  than in less-developed  देशों  , despite life expectancy being higher  in  developed countries due  to   मानकों  of health being better .
इस  happens  क्युकी  developed  देशों   typically  have  a  completely different  जनसांख्यिकी   आयु   वितरण  ,  साथ   a  much  उच्चतर  proportion of  पुरानी   लोगों  ,  due  to both lower recent birth rates and lower  मृत्यु  rates .
a  more complete  चित्र  of mortality is given by a  जीवन   तालिका   जिससे  shows the mortality rate separately for each  आयु  .
A life  तालिका  is necessary to  दे  a good estimate  of  life expectancy .
An  otoacoustic   उत्सर्जन   (  OAE ) is a sound which  is  generated from within the  भीतरी  ear  .
Having  महरूम   पूर्वानुमानित  by  थामस  Gold  in   1948  , its  अस्तित्व  was  पहला  demonstrated  experimentally   by  David Kemp  in  1978 and otoacoustic emissions have since been shown to arise by  a   क्रमांक  of different  सेल्यूलर  mechanisms  भीतर  the  भीतरी   कान  .
अध्ययन  have shown that OAEs disappear  बाद  the inner  कान   रै  been damaged ,  so  OAEs  हैं  often  प्रयुक्त  in  the  laboratory and the clinic as a measure  of   भीतरी  ear  स्वास्थ्य  .
Broadly speaking  ,  there are two  प्रकार   of  otoacoustic emissions  :  spontaneous otoacoustic  emissions  ( SOAEs )  ,   जिससे  can  occur   बगैर   बाह्य  stimulation  ,  and evoked otoacoustic emissions (  eoaes   )  , which require an evoking  stimulus  .
Hurricane Tomas was the nineteenth named storm and  बारहवीं  hurricane  of  the 2010 Atlantic  hurricane  season  .
टॉमस  developed from  a  tropical wave east of the Windward  आइलैंड्स  on October 29 .
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane ,  it  moved through the Windward Islands and passed very near Saint Lucia .
After reaching Category 2 status on the  saffir-simpson   स्केल   ,   टॉमस  quickly weakened  to   a  tropical storm  in   the  central Caribbean Sea  ,  due to strong wind shear and  शुष्क  air .
टॉमस  later  regained  hurricane status as it reorganized near the Windward  ड्योढ़ी   .
throughout  the hurricane 's path , 71 people  हैं   ज्ञात  to have been  मारे   ,  14 of whom were in  संत  Lucia .
Monetary losses throughout the Windward Islands were estimated  at   us  $ 588 million ,  मुख्यतः   in   संत   लूसिया  .
In the wake of the storm in Haiti , flooding intensified an ongoing cholera  outbreak  indirectly causing more  fatalities  .
According to a report released in December  2010  , 55  लोगों  were  मारे  in Cuba and Hispanola , though the  वितरण  of  ये  fatalities are unknown .
Overall  क्षति  from  the  storm was at least  $  741 million .
Victoria Jackson  (   born  August 2 , 1959 ) is an American comedian , actress , satirist , singer and internet blogger best  ज्ञात  as a cast  सदस्य   of  the NBC television sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live ( SNL  )  from 1986 to  1992   .
She has received attention as  a  vocal  आलोचक  of President  बराक   ओबामा  , and  is  an active participant in  the  Tea Party  गति  .
Postmodern literature  is  literature characterized  by  heavy reliance on techniques like fragmentation , paradox ,  और  questionable narrators  ,  and is often (  हालांकि   नहीं   exclusively  )  पारिभाषित   as  a style or trend which emerged in the  post–world  War II era .
Postmodern works are seen as a reaction against Enlightenment thinking and Modernist approaches  to  literature  .
postmodern   साहित्य  , like postmodernism as a whole  ,  tends to resist definition or classification as  a   ``  movement '' .
बेशक  , the convergence of postmodern  साहित्य  with various modes of critical theory , particularly reader-response and deconstructionist approaches ,  और  the subversions of the implicit  अनुबंध   between  author ,  टेक्स्ट  and reader by  जिससे   इसके  works are often characterised ,  have  led to pre-modern fictions such as Cervantes '  डॉन  Quixote ( 1605,1615  )  and Laurence Sterne  's   eighteenth-century  satire Tristram  shandy  being retrospectively inducted into  the   मोड़ें   .
While there is  छोटी   सर्वसम्मति  on the  precise  characteristics , scope ,  और   महत्व  of postmodern literature , as is often the  मामला  with  कलाकारी   आंदोलनों   ,   postmodern  literature is  commonly  defined  in  relation to a  precursor  .
For example ,  a  postmodern literary work tends  नहीं  to conclude with the neatly tied-up ending as  is   प्रायः   मिला  in modernist literature ,  लकिन   प्रायः  parodies  it  .
postmodern  authors tend to  celebrate  chance over craft , and further employ metafiction to undermine  the  writer 's authority  .
Another  characteristic  of postmodern literature is the questioning of distinctions  between  high  और  low  संस्कृति   through   the   उपयोग  of pastiche ,  the  combination of subjects  और   जाति  not previously  deemed   अनुरूप  for  साहित्य  .
Enigma is  an  electronic musical  प्रोजेक्ट  founded in  जर्मनी  by Michael Cretu ,  दाउद  Fairstein and  फ़्रैंक  Peterson in 1990  .
the  Romanian-born Cretu conceived  the  Enigma project while working  in  Germany , but based his recording studio A.R.T . Studios  in  Ibiza , Spain , from the early 1990s  जबतक   may  2009  ,  where he has recorded  सब  of Enigma 's studio  रिलीज   to  date .
Cretu  is  both the composer and the producer  of  the  प्रोजेक्ट   .
His  पूर्व   बीवी  ,  पॉप   सिंगर   सैंड्रा   ,   प्रायः  provided  vocals  on Enigma  ट्रैक्स   .
Jens Gad co-arranged and  निभाई  guitar on three of the Enigma  एल्बम  .
Peter  कॉर्नेलियस  also contributed  to  Enigma  दौरान  the 1990s  .
Seven studio albums  have   महरूम  produced  अंतर्गत  the name of the project .
Scooby-Doo  is   an  American animated  कार्टून  franchise , comprising several  एनिमेटेड  television series produced from 1969  to   the  present day .
The  असली   श्रेणी   ,   scooby-doo  , Where Are You  !
,  थी  created for Hanna-Barbera  प्रोडक्शन्स  by writers Joe Ruby and  केन  Spears  in  1969  .
This Saturday  morning  cartoon series featured four teenagers— Fred  जोन्स  , Daphne Blake , Velma Dinkley , and Norville  ``  Shaggy '' Rogers — and their talking  भूरा  Great Dane dog named  scooby-doo  ,  जो  solve mysteries  involving  supposedly  अलौकिक  creatures through a series  of  antics and  missteps  .
following   the  success  of  the  असली   श्रेणी  ,  hanna-barbera  and  इसके   successor  Warner  ब्रदर्स   .  Animation have produced  numerous  follow-up and spin-off animated  श्रेणी  and several related works ,  सहित   टेलीविज़न   specials   और  telefilms , a line of  direct-to-video   films  , and two  warner  Bros. –produced theatrical  विशेषता  films .
Some  संस्करण   of   scooby-doo  feature  अलग  variations on the show  's   अलौकिक   थीम  ,  और  include characters such  as  Scooby  's  cousin Scooby-Dum and nephew Scrappy-Doo  in  addition to or instead of  कुछ  of the  असली  characters .
Scooby-Doo  थी  originally broadcast on CBS from  1969  to 1976 , when it moved  to  ABC .
ABC aired the show until canceling it in 1986 , and presented  a   spin-off  featuring  the  characters as  children  ,  a  Pup Named Scooby-Doo , from 1988 until 1991 .
Two  नई  Scooby-Doo series , What 's New  ,  Scooby-Doo ?
and Shaggy and Scooby-Doo  मिलेंगी   a  a  सुराग  !  ]  ] , aired as part of Kids  wb  on The WB network and its successor , The CW network , from 2002 until 2008  .
the   सबसे  recent Scooby-Doo series , Scooby-Doo !
रहस्य  Incorporated  ,   aired  on  कार्टून   संजाल   इससे   2010   to   2013  .
Repeats of  the  various Scooby-Doo series are  ब्रॉडकास्ट   अक्सर  on Cartoon Network  और   boomerang  in  the  United States and other countries .
Call  of  Duty is a  first-person  and third-person shooter  computer/  video game  मताधिकार  .
The series  began  on the PC , and later expanded to consoles  और   handhelds  .
अनेक   spin-off  games have also been  released   .
The earlier games in the  श्रेणी  are set primarily in World War II  ,  this  शामिल  : Call  of  Duty ,  कॉल  of Duty 2 , and Call of  ड्यूटी   3   .
Beginning with Modern Warfare ,  जिससे  is set  in  modern times  ,  the series has shifted focus away  इससे  World  युद्ध   ii  .
Call  of   ड्यूटी  4  :   आधुनिक  Warfare  (  released November 2007 )  थी  followed  by  Call of Duty : World  at   युद्ध   और  Call  of  Duty :  आधुनिक   warfare  2 .
ब्लैक  Ops ( released November 2010  )  takes place  in   the   ठंडा   युद्ध  , while  आधुनिक  Warfare 3 ( released  नवम्बर   2011  )  takes   प्लेस   in  the near-future setting .
Black Ops  2  (  released   नवम्बर  13 ,  2012  ) takes place in the year 2025  .
The Call of  ड्यूटी  games are published and owned  by  Activision with Aspyr Media publishing it for  ठहराना  OS  x   .
While  the   स्टुडियो  Infinity Ward  primarily  still develops them , Treyarch has also developed several  of  the titles with the  रिलीज  of the studios ' games interlaced  साथ   प्रत्येक   अन्य  .
Some games have  महरूम  developed by Gray  पदार्थ  Interactive  ,  Spark Unlimited  ,   विस्मित  Entertainment  ,   n-space  , Rebellion Developments , Ideaworks Game  स्टुडियो   ,  Sledgehammer Games and nStigate Games .
The games use a  किस्में  of engines , including the  id  Tech 3 , the Treyarch  ngl  , and the IW 5.0  .
Other products in the franchise include a line  of  action figures designed by Plan-B Toys ,  a   कार्ड  game created by Upper Deck ,  और   a   कॉमिक  book mini-series published  by   wildstorm  .
as  of November  11  ,  2011   ,  the Call Of Duty  श्रेणी  have sold  over   100   लाख   नक़ल  .
As of March 31 , 2012 there  हैं  40  लाख   मासिक  active players across all of  the   कॉल  of Duty  शीर्षक  , with 10  लाख  Call of Duty  :  Elite  उपयोक्ता  and 2 million  paying  annual members .
Over 1.6  अरब  hours  of   ऑनलाइन  gameplay  have  been logged Modern Warfare  3   चूंकि  its 2011 release .
The  एस्टेट  tax in the United States  is  a tax imposed on the  ट्रांसफ़र  of the ``  taxable  estate ``  of  a deceased  व्यक्ति  ,  whether   ऐसे  property is transferred  via  a  होगा   ,   according   to  the state laws of intestacy or  वरना  made as an incident of the  मौत  of  the  owner , such as  a   ट्रांसफ़र  of property from  an   intestate   एस्टेट   or  trust , or the  भुगतान   of  certain life  बीमे  benefits or  वित्तीय  account  रकम   to  beneficiaries .
The  एस्टेट   कर  is one part  of  the  एकीकृत  Gift and Estate Tax system in the United States .
The  अन्य  part of the system , the gift tax , imposes a tax on  हस्तांतरण  of property during a person 's life ; the gift tax  रोकता  avoidance of the estate tax  चाहिए   a  person  want  to give away  his/her  estate  .
in  addition  to   the   संघीय   सरकारी  , many states also impose an estate  कर  , with the state version called either  an  estate tax or an inheritance tax .
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों   of  the estate  कर   कॉल   it  the `` death  कर  '' .
If an asset is left  to   a  spouse or  a  Federally  पहचाना  charity ,  the   कर  usually  करता   नहीं   लागू   .
In addition  ,  up to $  5,250,000  can  be  given by  an   व्यक्तिगत   ,   पहले  and/or upon their death ,  बगैर   रूष्ट  federal gift or estate taxes  .
Gavin McGregor Rossdale  (   born   30  October 1967  )  is an English actor and  संगीतकार   ,  known as  the  lead singer and rhythm  guitarist  of the  चट्टान   बैंड  Bush .
Following Bush 's  विरह  in  2002  , which lasted for eight years ,  he  was the  सीसे   सिंगर  and guitarist  लिये  Institute , and  बाद   began   a  solo  करियर   .
When performing solo , Gavin  plays  songs from his extensive  musical   पुस्तकालयों   .
Rossdale  रै   महरूम  ranked in the Top  100  Heavy Metal Vocalists by Hit Parader  (   #  75 )  .
Raffaello Sanzio da  urbino  (  अप्रैल   6  or March 28 , 1483 – April  6  ,  1520  ) ,  बेहतर  known simply as Raphael , was an Italian painter  और  architect  of   the  High  पुनर्जागरण  .
His work  is   admired  for its clarity  of   रूप  and ease of  संयोजन  and for its visual achievement of the  neoplatonic  ideal of human grandeur .
Together with Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci  ,  he forms  the  traditional trinity of great masters of that  काल  .
Raphael was enormously productive , running  an  unusually large workshop , and  despite  his death  at  37  ,   a  large body of his work remains .
Many of his works are found in the Vatican Palace , where the  frescoed  Raphael Rooms  यहूद   the  central ,  और  the largest , work of his career  .
The best known work is The  स्कूल  of Athens in the  वेटिकन  Stanza della  segnatura  .
बाद   उसके  early  सालो  in Rome much of his work was self-designed  ,  but for  the  most part  चलाया   by  the workshop from his  drawings   ,   साथ   considerable   घाटा  of quality .
He  थी  extremely  influential  in his  आजीवन  ,  हालांकि  outside Rome his work was mostly  ज्ञात  from  उसके  collaborative printmaking .
बाद  his death ,  the  influence of  उसके  great rival Michelangelo was  अधिक   फैली  until the 18th and 19th centuries , when Raphael 's more serene and harmonious  qualities  were again regarded as  the   उच्चतम  models  .
His career  जलप्रपात  naturally into three phases and  तीन  styles , first described by  giorgio  Vasari  :  his early years in Umbria , then a period of about four years (  इससे  1504–1508  )  absorbing  the  artistic traditions of Florence , followed  by  his last hectic  और  triumphant  बारह  years in Rome  ,  working for two Popes and their close associates .
Julia Fiona  रॉबर्ट्स   (  born October 28 ,  1967  ) is an American  अभिनेत्री   .
She became  a  Hollywood star after headlining  the  romantic comedy Pretty Woman (  1990  )  ,  which  grossed  $ 464  लाख  worldwide  .
बाद  receiving Golden Globe  पुरस्कार   और   अकादमी  Award  nominations  for  स्टील   magnolias  ( 1989 ) and Pretty Woman ,  वो   जीती   the  Academy Award  लिये  Best  अभिनेत्री   लिये  her  प्रदर्शन  in  एरिन  Brockovich  (  2000  )   .
Her films The Pelican Brief  (  1993 ) , My  बेहतरीन   dost   's   विवाह   (  1997 ) , Mystic Pizza  (   1988  )  ,   नॉटिंग  Hill ( 1999  )   ,  Runaway Bride ( 1999  )  ,  समंदर  's  ग्यारह  ( 2001 )  ,   समंदर  's  बारह  ( 2004 ) , Charlie Wilson  's  War ( 2007 ) , Valentine 's Day ( 2010 ) , Eat Pray  प्रेम  ( 2010 ) , and Mirror  दर्पण  ( 2012 ) have collectively brought  बक्सा   दफ्तर   रसीदें  of over  $   2.6  billion  ,   बनाना   उसके   एक   of  the most successful actresses in  शर्तें  of box office receipts .
रॉबर्ट्स   था  become  एक   of   the  highest-paid actresses  in   the  world , topping The Hollywood Reporters annual ``  शक्ति  list '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006 .
उसके  fee  लिये   1990  's  pretty   स्त्री  was $  300,000  ; in  2003  , she was paid an unprecedented $ 25 million  लिये  her role in Mona  लिसा   मुस्कान   (  2003 ) .
As of  2010  ,  रॉबर्ट्स   's  net worth was estimated to be  $  140  लाख  .
Roberts has been named one of People magazine  's  `` 50 Most Beautiful People in the World '' eleven times , tied  साथ  Halle Berry  .
In 2011 , she was named  एक   of  the  ``  100 Hottest  महिलाओं  of All-Time '' by Men 's  स्वास्थ्य   .
in   2001   ,  Ladies Home Journal ranked her as the 11th most  शक्तिशाली  woman in the  संयुक्त  States  .
Mark  इलियट   zuckerberg   (  born  may  14 , 1984 )  is  an American computer programmer and Internet entrepreneur .
He is  बेहतरीन  known as one  of  five  co-founders   of  the social networking  जालस्थल  Facebook .
As  of  April 2013 ,  zuckerberg  is the chairman  और   मुख्य   कार्यपालिका  of Facebook ,  inc.  and  in  2013  उसके  personal  माल  was estimated to  be  US $  13  .3 billion .
Together  साथ  his  कॉलेज   roommates   और   fellow   हार्वर्ड  University  विद्यार्थी  Eduardo Saverin  ,  Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and  क्रिस   ह्यूजेस  ,  zuckerberg   शुभारम्भ  Facebook from Harvard 's dormitory  कक्ष  .
the   समूह  then introduced  फेसबुक  onto other  campuses   देशभर  and moved to Palo Alto  ,  California ,  संयुक्त  States ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards .
In 2007 ,  at   the  age of twenty-three  सालो  , Zuckerberg became a billionaire as a  परिणाम  of Facebook  और  the  क्रमांक  of Facebook users  विश्वव्यापी  reached a total of one  अरब  in  2012  .
zuckerberg   थी  involved in  विभिन्न   विधिक  disputes that were  initiated  by others in the  समूह   ,  who claimed  a   share   of   the  company  आधारित  upon their involvement during the  विकास  phase of Facebook .
Since 2010  ,   zuckerberg  has  महरूम  named among  the  100 wealthiest and  सबसे  influential people in the world by  समय  magazine as a part of  इसके  Person  of  the  साल  accolade .
Zuckerberg was played by actor Jesse Eisenberg in  the  2010 Hollywood film  the  Social Network in which the  वृद्धि   of   फेसबुक  is portrayed .
the  Mayflower  थी   the  ship that  in   1620   transported   102   अंग्रेज़ी   तीर्थयात्रियों  ,  सहित   a   कोर   समूह  of Separatists  ,   to   नई   इंग्लैण्ड   .
उनके  story is one of travail and  अस्तित्व  in a harsh New World environment  .
framedThe
Committee  of  Ways and  अर्थात्   is  the chief  कर  -writing  कमेटी   of  the United States House  of   प्रतिनिधि  .
Members of the Ways and Means Committee  हैं  not allowed to serve on any other House  समितियों  unless they  लागू  for a waiver from their party 's  congressional  leadership .
the  Committee has  क्षेत्राधिकार  over  सब  taxation ,  tariffs  and other revenue-raising  उपायों  ,  as   खूब   as   a  number of other  कार्यक्रम   including:
Social Security
Unemployment benefits
Medicare
Enforcement of child support laws
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families  ,  a federal welfare program
Foster care and  अपनाना  programs
The U.S. Constitution requires that all bills regarding taxation must  originate   in   the   हाउस  of Representatives  .
Since House procedure is  कि   सब  bills  regarding  taxation  जरूर   go  through  इस  committee  ,  the  कमेटी  is  बहुत   influential  , as is its Senate counterpart , the  u.S.  Senate  कमेटी  on  वित्त  .
The Ways  और  Means Committee  in  the  111th  Congress was chaired by Charlie Rangel , who had taken a leave  of   अनुपस्थिति  as chairman  जबतक   हाउस  ethics violations were resolved .
however  ,  उसके  leave of  अनुपस्थिति   as   अध्यक्ष   थी  ruled  to  be  a  resignation .
पीट  Stark  resigned  as  एक्टिंग   अध्यक्ष   ,  so Sander  levin  held that position until  the   प्रारंभ   of  the 112th Congress .
Dave Camp became the  कमेटी   कुर्सी  for  the  112th Congress , after the  republicans  won control of the  हाउस  in the 2010 election  .
The  ब्लू  whale  (  Balaenoptera musculus ) is  a   समुद्री   स्तनधारी   belonging  to  the  suborder  of  baleen  whales  ( called  mysticeti  ) .
at  in length  और  or more in weight ,  it   is  the largest  ज्ञात   एनिमल   to   have   कभी  existed  .
Long  और   slender  ,  the  blue  व्हेल   's  body can be various  शेड्स  of bluish-grey dorsally  और  somewhat lighter  underneath  .
वहीँ   हैं  at least three distinct subspecies  :   B.  m. musculus  of  the North  अटलांटिक  and North Pacific , B. m.  intermedia   of   the  Southern Ocean  और   B.  m. brevicauda  (  also  ज्ञात   as  the pygmy blue whale ) found in  the  Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean .
B.  m. indica ,  मिला   in  the  भारतीय   समंदर  ,  may  be another subspecies .
As with other  baleen  whales , its  आहार   consists  almost exclusively of small  crustaceans  known  as   krill   .
Blue whales were  abundant  in nearly all the oceans on Earth  जबतक  the beginning of the twentieth  सदी  .
For over  a  century , they were hunted almost to extinction by whalers until protected by  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  community in 1966 .
A 2002 report estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales worldwide , located in at least five groups .
More recent  शोध  into the Pygmy subspecies suggests  इस   may  be  an   underestimate  .
Before whaling ,  the  largest  जनसांख्यिकी   थी  in the Antarctic , numbering approximately 239,000 (  दायरा   202,000  to  311,000  ) .
वहीँ  remain only much smaller ( around  2,000  )  एकाग्रता  in  प्रत्येक   of  the eastern North Pacific , Antarctic ,  और  Indian Ocean groups .
वहीँ  are two more groups in the North Atlantic , and at  तनिक  two in  the   दक्षिणी  Hemisphere .
the  globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var . scolymus  )  is a  किस्में   of   a  species of thistle  cultivated  as a food .
The  खाद्य   पदार्थ  is  कलियों  that  रूप  within  the   पुष्प   heads  before  the   पुष्प  come into bloom  .
The buds  go  away or  बदलें  to a  coarse   ,   मुश्किल  edible form  जब  the flower blooms .
The uncultivated or wild variety of the species  is  called  a  cardoon  .
It is a perennial plant  देशी  to  the  Mediterranean region .
The United States one hundred-dollar bill (  $   100  ) is a denomination of  संयुक्त   राज्य   करेंसी  .
U.S. statesman  ,  inventor , and diplomat Benjamin Franklin is  फिलहाल  featured on the  obverse  of the  विधेयक  .
On the  रिवर्स   of   the  banknote is  an   चित्र   of  Independence Hall .
The  $   100  bill  is  the largest denomination that has been printed since  जुलाई  13 , 1969  ,  when  the  denominations of $ 500  ,   $  1,000 , $ 5,000 , and  $  10,000  यहूद   रिटायर्ड  .
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 100 bill in circulation is 90 months ( 7.5 years  )   पहले  it  is   replaced  due to wear and tear .
The bills  हैं  also commonly referred to  as   ``  Benjamins '' , in reference  to  the use  of   बेंजामिन  Franklin 's portrait on the denomination , or `` C-Notes ''  ,   आधारित  on  the  Roman  numeral  for  100  .
the  bill is one of  दो  denominations printed today that does not feature a President  of   the  United States ;  the  other is the  $  10 bill ,  featuring   सिकंदर  Hamilton .
The time on the clock of  स्वतंत्रता   हॉल  on the reverse ,  according  to the U.S. Bureau of Engraving  और   मुद्रण   ,   shows   लगभग   4:10  .
One hundred hundred-dollar bills are delivered by  संघीय  Reserve Banks  in   mustard-colored   straps  ( $ 10,000 )  .
the  Series 2009 $  100   विधेयक   redesign  was unveiled on  अप्रैल  21 , 2010 ,  और  was to be issued to the public on February  11  , 2011 , but production was shut down in December 2010  क्युकी  as many as 30 % were unusable  due   to  a manufacturing  दोष  .
a  vertical crease in the paper reveals a  रिक्त  space on the bill when pulled out .
In their replacement  ,   और   continuing  the high demand of this denomination  ,   the  Series 2006A was launched  retaining  the  पिछला  design  (   1996-generation   )  .
On April 24 , 2013 , the  संघीय  Reserve announced the  नई   $  100 bill would  डालें   परिसंचरण  on October  8  , 2013 .
King  दाउद  in robes of a  बीज़ान्टिन  emperor  .
miniature   इससे  the  पेरिस   psalter  .
David (  ;  ISO 259-3 Dawid  ;   '  ;  दमदार  's : Daveed )  according  to  the  Hebrew Bible , was  the  second king of the United Kingdom  of   इसराईल   ,  and  according  to the  नई   वसीयत  Gospels of  मैथ्यू   और   ल्यूक  ,  an  ancestor  of  Jesus .
His life is conventionally dated to  c.  1040–970 BCE , his reign  over  Judah c. 1010–1002 BCE  ,  and his reign over  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom of Israel c.  1002–970  BCE  .
The Books  of   सैमुएल  , 1  किंग्स  , and 1 Chronicles  हैं   the  only  स्त्रोत   of   सूचना  on David , although the Tel Dan  stele  ( dated  c.  850–835 BCE ) contains  the  phrase ( bytdwd )  ,  read  as  `` House of David  ''   ,  which most scholars take  as  confirmation of the existence in  the  mid-9th century  bce   of   a  Judean  royal  dynasty called the House  of  David .
he  is depicted as a righteous king ,  हालांकि   नहीं  without faults  ,  as  खूब  as an acclaimed warrior , musician ,  और  poet , traditionally  credited   लिये   composing  many of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms .
David is  सेंट्रल  to  यहूदी  , Christian , and Islamic doctrine and culture  .
Biblical tradition  maintains   कि   a  direct descendant  of  David will  be  the  मसीहा  .
in   islam  he is  माना  to be a prophet and the  किंग  of a nation .
Kathmandu  (  ;  )  is the  पूंजी  and largest  शहरी   agglomerate   of   नेपाल  .
the  agglomerate  consists  of Kathmandu Metropolitan City at its core , and its sister cities  patan  ,  kirtipur   ,  Thimi , and  भक्तपुर   .
it  also includes  the   recently  recognized  शहरी  areas  of  Shankhapur , Karyabinayak ,  और   champapur   .
Banepa , Dhulikhel , and Panauti  हैं  satellite  शहरी  areas  of  Kathmandu located  बस  outside the  काठमांडू   घाटी  .
काठमांडू   is  also known informally as `` KTM '' or the `` tri-city '' .
according   to  a census conducted in  2011  , Kathmandu metropolis alone has 975,453 inhabitants ; and the  agglomerate   रै  a population  of  more than 2.5 million inhabitants .
The metropolitan city area is and has a population density of  19,250   प्रति  km2 .
The  नगर   स्टैंड  at an elevation of  लगभग   in   the  bowl-shaped Kathmandu Valley of  सेंट्रल   नेपाल  .
It is surrounded by  चार  major mountains  :   shivapuri  ,  phulchoki  , Nagarjun ,  और  Chandragiri  .
Kathmandu Valley is  भाग  of three districts ( Kathmandu ,  ललितपुर   ,  and Bhaktapur ) , has the highest population density  in  the  देश   ,  and is home  to   परिचय  a twelfth of Nepal  's   जनसांख्यिकी  .
During Rana and Shah eras , the  नाम   ``  Nepal  ''  referred only to the Kathmandu Valley ; it was what people  जो  lived outside  the  valley called it .
During this period ,  अंग्रेजों   इतिहासकारों  called  the   घाटी  itself ``  नेपाल   उचित  '' .
Today  ,  Kathmandu is not only the capital of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal ,  लकिन  also the  मुख्यालय  of the Central Development  प्रदेश   of  Nepal  .
The Central Region  comprises  three  zones   :  Bagmati , Narayani , and Janakpur .
Kathmandu  is  located  in  the Bagmati Zone  .
Kathmandu  is  the  गेटवे  to  पर्यटन  in Nepal .
It is  भी  the nerve  बीच  of the country  's  economy .
It  रै  the  सबसे   उन्नत  infrastructure  of  any urban area  in  Nepal ,  और  its  अर्थव्यवस्था  is  केन्द्रित  on  पर्यटन  , which accounted  लिये  3.8 %  of  Nepal  's  GDP  in  1995–96 .
(  Tourism in Kathmandu declined thereafter during a period  of  political  अशांति  , but since  तब  has  improved   .  )
the  city  रै  a rich  इतिहास  ,  spanning  nearly  2000  years , as  inferred  from inscriptions found in the valley .
धार्मिक  and cultural festivities form a  प्रमुख  part of the lives of people residing in Kathmandu .
Most of Kathmandu 's people  follow  Hinduism and many  अन्य  follow Buddhism .
There are  लोगों  of other religious beliefs as well  ,   giving  Kathmandu a  कॉस्मोपॉलिटन   संस्कृति  .
Nepali  is   the   सबसे  commonly spoken language in the city .
नेपाल  Bhasa  is   the  indigenous  भाषा   बोला   by  the Newar people .
Hindi is widely  समझा  and  अंग्रेज़ी  is understood by Kathmandu 's educated  निवासियों   .
The city 's literacy rate  is   98  % .
Kathmandu  's   सिस्टर   शहरों  ( Lalitpur  patan  )  और  Bhaktapur  हैं   अभिन्न  to  काठमांडू  's  सांस्कृतिक   विरासत  , tourism industry , and economy ;  इसलिए  UNESCO 's  संसार   विरासत   साईट   सूचियाँ  all  तीन   शहरों  ' monuments  और   आकर्षण   साथ  under one  heading   ,  `` Kathmandu Valley-  युनेस्को  World Heritage Site ``  .
फ़ील्ड   हॉकी   ,  usually referred to  बस   as  hockey , is a team  खेल  of  the  hockey  परिवार   जिससे   is   निभाई  between  दो   टीमों  of eleven  खिलाड़ी  with hockey sticks  और   a  hard  ,  solid plastic  बॉल   .
At the turn of the  21st  century , the  खेल  is played globally , with particular  लोकप्रियता   throughout  Europe , Asia , Oceania ,  और   दक्षिण  America  –   in   जोड  to being the national sport of Pakistan and India .
The  पद  `` field hockey '' is used primarily in  कनाडा  , the United  राज्य   ,   और   अन्य  regions of the world  जहाँ   the  sport of ice hockey  is  more popular .
During play , goal keepers are the  तभी   खिलाड़ी  who are  अनुमत  to touch the  बॉल   साथ  any part of their  देह  ( with  the  exception of  a  player  's  hand considered 'part of  the   स्टिक   '  ) , with this only applying  भीतर  the shooting circle ( also known as the D ,  or   शूटिंग  arc  ,   or   बस  the circle  )  , while  फ़ील्ड   खिलाड़ी  play the ball with  the  flat side of their stick .
The team that scores the  सबसे  goals by the end  of   the  match wins  .
If the score is tied  at  the end of the  खेल  , either  a   चित्रण   is  declared or the game goes  into   अतिरिक्त  time  and/or  a penalty  गोलीबारी  ,  depending  on the competition 's format  .
The  शासी   देह  of hockey is  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Hockey Federation (  fih   )  , with men and women  होने  represented internationally in competitions including the Olympic games , Commonwealth games , Hockey  संसार  Cup ,  champions  Trophy and Junior Hockey World Cup  ,  with  अनेक   देशों  running extensive junior , senior , and  मास्टर्स  '  क्लबों  competitions  .
the  FIH is also  जिम्मेदार   लिये   organising  the  हॉकी  Rules Board and developing  the   नियम  for the  खेल  .
A  लोकप्रिय  variant of  फ़ील्ड  hockey is indoor hockey ,  जिससे  differs  in  a number of  respects  while  मूर्त  the primary principles of hockey .
अंदर  hockey is a  6-a-side  variant ,  साथ   a  field  जिससे  is  घटाया  to approximately 40m × 20m .
With  अनेक  of  the   नियम  remaining the same  ,   सहित  obstruction and  फीट   ,  there are several  कुंजी  variations -  खिलाड़ी   may  not raise the ball  जबतक   शूटिंग  on goal ,  खिलाड़ी  may not hit the  बॉल  ( instead  utilising  pushes  to  transfer the ball ) ,  और  the  sidelines  are replaced  साथ   ठोस   बाधाओं  which the ball will  rebound  off .
ethan   ``   cane   ''  Ashby ( né Atkinson  )   is  a fictional character  इससे  the American  सीबीएस   साबुन  opera The Young and  the  Restless .
He  is  portrayed  by  Australian actor Daniel Goddard  ,  who  originally  auditioned for Brad Snyder on As the  संसार  Turns but was recommended for  a  role on  the  Young and  the  Restless instead  .
The  भूमिका   थी  to be  portrayed  as  an   अमरीकी  , but  गोडार्ड  's  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई   descent  influenced  the  character  's  background .
पूर्व   सिर   लेखक  Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during  the  episode  airing   on   जनवरी  12  ,  2007  as  an Australian  बारटेंडर  in  ढूंढें   of  his  परिवार  ,  a  debut that received a  मिश्रित  response  .
Latham  निर्मित   cane   as  the son  of  Phillip  चांसलर   ii  ( Donnelly Rhodes  )  and Jill  फोस्टर   एबॉट  (  जेस  Walton )  लकिन   the  character 's background was  rewritten  by Maria Arena  घंटी   in  2009 , reestablishing him as the  बेटे   of  Colin  और  Genevieve Atkinson (  ट्रिस्टन  Rogers and Genie  फ्रांसिस  ) .
Though characterized as `` mysterious '' , Cane is ``  वफ़ादार  and dedicated  ''  , while  गोडार्ड  described the character  as  a `` typical  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई   ,   working-class   दयालु  of  guy  '' .
He  थी  the first member  of   the  Atkinson  परिवार   to  appear on  the  series , followed  by  his  अभिभावक  and  एकसमान  twin brother  .
Soon  बाद   उसके   डेब्यू  , he  became  a  अग्रणी  character , a decision praised by viewers and critics .
the  character  रै  been involved  साथ  Amber  मूर   (   adrienne   frantz   )  , Chloe Mitchell (  एलिज़ाबेथ  Hendrickson ) and  सबसे  notably Lily Winters  (  Christel  खलील  )  ,  a romance  कि  garnered  significant  fan attention .
in   2009  , Cane and  लिली  were  शादीशुदा  ; Global BC  होता  later call  लिली  the  प्रेम   of   cane  's  जीवन  .
The  जोड़ी  had two children , Charlie and Mattie Ashby .
In 2011  ,   the   कर्ता   थी   fired  , and Cane was shot to  मौत  onscreen  .
however  , Goddard  थी  rehired  जल्द   बाद  viewers campaigned for his  वापसी   ,  revealing  कि   cane   's  identical twin brother was  in  fact the man  जो  died .
This sacrificed  उसके   विवाह  to  लिली  , but the couple were  remarried  on Valentine  's  Day in  2012  .
Goddard  रै  been widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; Canyon News  कहा   कि  he portrays the character honestly ,  और   is   ``  always  dependable  , on fire and  रोमांचक  '' .
John Christopher `` Johnny '' Depp II (  born  June 9 , 1963 ) is an American actor  ,   फिल्मी   निर्माता  , and  संगीतकार  .
he  has won the Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild award  लिये   बेहतरीन  Actor .
Depp rose to prominence on the  1980s   टेलीविज़न  series 21 Jump Street  ,  becoming a teen  आइडल  .
Dissatisfied with that status , Depp turned  to   फिल्मी  for more challenging  भूमिकाएँ   ;   he  played the  शीर्षक  character  of  the acclaimed Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) and  बाद  found  बक्सा   दफ्तर   कामयाबी  in films  ऐसे  as Sleepy Hollow  (  1999 ) , Charlie and the Chocolate  फैक्टरी  (  2005  ) , Alice in  वंडरलैंड   (  2010 ) ,  rango  ( 2011 ) and  the  Pirates of the Caribbean film series ( 2003–present  )  .
He has collaborated  साथ  director and  dost   टिम  Burton in eight films  ;   the  most recent being Dark Shadows ( 2012  )   .
Depp has gained acclaim  लिये  his portrayals of such  लोगों  as Ed  लकडी  in Ed Wood  ,  Joseph D.  pistone  in Donnie Brasco ,  शिकारी  S. Thompson in  भय  and  loathing  in  लास   वेगास   ,  George Jung in Blow , and the  बैंको  robber John  dillinger   in  Michael  मन   's  Public Enemies .
Films  featuring   डेप  have grossed over $ 3.1 billion at the  संयुक्त  States  बक्सा   दफ्तर   और  over $ 7.6 billion worldwide .
He  रै  been nominated for top  पुरस्कार  many times , winning the Best Actor Awards  इससे  the Golden  –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy  Globes –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy for Sweeney  टॉड  : The  राक्षस   नाई  of Fleet  गली  and from  the  Screen Actors Guild for Pirates of the  caribbean  : The Curse  of  the  ब्लैक  Pearl .
He also has garnered a sex symbol status in American  सिनेमा  , being twice named as the `` Sexiest  man   जिंदा  `` by People magazine in 2003 and  2009  .
He has been listed  in  the 2012 Guinness Book of  संसार  Records as the highest paid actor  ,  with  $  75  लाख  .
The World Wide Web  (   abbreviated  as WWW or  w3  , commonly known as  the  web ) , is a  प्रणाली  of interlinked hypertext  दस्तावेज़  accessed  via  the Internet  .
With a web  ब्राउजर  ,  एक  can view web  पृष्ठों  that may contain text , images ,  वीडियो  , and other multimedia ,  और  navigate between them via  hyperlinks  .
using   अवधारणाओं  from his earlier hypertext systems like  enquire   ,   अंग्रेजों  engineer , computer scientist and  at  that time employee  of  the  cern  , Sir Tim  berners-lee   ,   अभी  Director  of  the World  चौड़ी  Web  consortium  ( W3C ) , wrote a  प्रस्ताव  in March 1989  लिये  what  होता  eventually become the World Wide Web .
At CERN ,  a   यूरोपीय  research organisation near Geneva straddling  the  border  between  France and Switzerland , Berners-Lee and  belgian  computer scientist  रॉबर्ट   cailliau  proposed in 1990 to use hypertext  ``  to link  और  access information of  विभिन्न  kinds  as  a  वेब   of  nodes in  जिससे  the user can browse at will ''  ,  and they publicly introduced the project in  दिसम्बर  of the same year .
Mark Travis John Sanchez ( born November 11 , 1986 ) is an American football  क्वार्टरबैक   लिये  the New York Jets of  the  National Football  लीग   (   एनएफएल   )  .
He was drafted in the first  गोलाकार  of  the   2009   एनएफएल  Draft as the fifth  overall   चयन   by   the   jets  and  the  second quarterback taken overall .
He played college football at  the  University of Southern California (  यूएससी  ) .
सांचेज़  grew up in a  well-disciplined   और  athletic family .
In the eighth grade ,  he  began to play football  और  learn the intricacies of  the  quarterback  स्थिति  , training with  उसके   पिता  , Nick  .
a  well-regarded prospect ,  सांचेज़   वचनबद्ध   to   दक्षिणी  California following his  कामयाब  high school career in which he  led  his team to a  चैंपियनशिप   शीर्षक  during  उसके  final season  .
at  USC , Sanchez  थी  relegated as the backup  क्वार्टरबैक   दौरान  his  पहला   तीन  years though he  रोज़  to prominence due to his  ब्रैड  appearances  on  the field  in   2007  due to injuries suffered by  starting  quarterback John David Booty .
Sanchez also became popular within  the  community due to his Mexican-American  विरासत  .
Named  the   प्रारंभ   in  2008 , Sanchez led USC to a 12–1 record and  जीती   the  Rose  कटोरी  against Penn State  लिये  which Sanchez was awarded the Most  मूल्यवान  Player award  लिये  his  प्रदर्शन   on  offense .
Although many considered  उसे  too inexperienced  ,  Sanchez  घोषित   उसके   इरादे  to enter  the  2009  एनएफएल  Draft .
He was selected by  the   jets  after they traded up  साथ  the Cleveland Browns ,  और  was named the starting quarterback prior  to  the  प्रारंभ  of the  ऋतु  .
despite   a  subpar performance  ,  Sanchez led the Jets  to  the AFC Championship Game  ,  a losing effort to the Indianapolis  कोल्टस  ,  बनने  the fourth  रुकी  quarterback  in  NFL  इतिहास  to win his first playoff  खेल   और   the   दूसरी  to  जीत   दो  playoff games .
In his  दूसरी  season , Sanchez continued  to   develop  and led the Jets  to  the playoffs  और  the team 's second consecutive AFC Championship Game  जहाँ   वे  narrowly  खोया  to  the   पिट्सबर्ग  Steelers  ,   24–19   .
With the win over the New England Patriots the week prior  ,  Sanchez tied four other  quarterbacks  for the second most post-season road  victories  by a quarterback in NFL history .
In  अग्रणी  the Jets to two consecutive conference championships , Sanchez  joined  quarterback Ben Roethlisberger as the only  दो   quarterbacks  in NFL history to reach the  सम्मेलन  championship  in  their first two seasons in the  लीग  .
The next two seasons would  be  a regression  लिये  both the team and Sanchez as  वे  failed to  पहुँचें  the playoffs  .
Fans and media critics called  लिये  a struggling  सांचेज़  to be benched .
He  आखिरकार  was replaced towards the end of  the  2012  ऋतु  with  ग्रेग  McElroy  .
Paul Avery  (   अप्रैल  2 ,  1934december   10  , 2000  )  was an  अमरीकी  police reporter , best known for  उसके  stories on the  infamous  serial killer known as  the   zodiac  , and later for  उसके  work on  the  Patricia Hearst kidnapping .
a  small submersible AC  sump  pump with a  गार्डन  hose connector
A sump pump is a  पंप   प्रयुक्त  to remove water that has accumulated  in  a water  collecting   sump  basin ,  commonly   मिला   in  the basement  of  homes .
The  जल  may enter via  the  perimeter drains  of  a basement waterproofing system  ,   funneling  into the  जलाशय  or  क्युकी   of  rain or natural ground  जल  ,  if   the  basement is  नीचे   the  water table level .
Sump pumps are used where basement flooding happens regularly and  to  remedy dampness where the water table is  ऊपर  the foundation of a  घर   .
Sump pumps send  जल  away from a  हाउस   to   कोई  place where it is no longer problematic , such  as  a  नगरपालिका  storm drain or a dry well .
Pumps may  निर्वहन   to  the  sanitary  sewer in  पुरानी   संस्थापना  .
Once  माना  acceptable , this  अभ्यास   may   अभी  violate the plumbing  कोड  or municipal bylaws , because  it   can   overwhelm  the municipal sewage  उपचार  system .
municipalities  urge homeowners  to  disconnect and reroute sump pump discharge away from sanitary  sewers  .
जुर्माना  may  be   imposed  for  noncompliance  .
Many  homeowners  have inherited their sump pump configurations and  do  not realize  कि  the pump  discharges   to  the sewer .
If the  निर्वहन   is  fed to a laundry sink  in   the  basement ,  it  's likely  going   to  the sewer .
Usually hardwired into a home 's  विद्युत  system , sump pumps may have  a  battery backup .
The home  's  pressurized water supply powers some pumps  ,  eliminating the  need  for electricity at the expense of  using  potable water , potentially  बनाना   उन्हें  more expensive to operate  than  electrical pumps and creating  an  additional water  निपटान  problem .
Since a sump basin may  अतिप्रवाह  if not constantly pumped , a backup system is important  लिये   मामले  when  the   प्रमुख   शक्ति   is  out for prolonged periods of time ,  as   दौरान  a  कठोर  storm  .
There are generally two types of sump pumps — pedestal and submersible .
the  pedestal pump 's  मोटर  is mounted  ऊपर  the sump ,  जहाँ  it is more easily serviced ,  लकिन  is also more  conspicuous  .
The pump impeller  is  driven by  a  long , vertical  एक्सटेंशन  shaft and the impeller is  in  a scroll housing  in  the base of  the   पंप  .
The submersible  पंप  is  entirely  mounted inside  the   sump   ,  and is  विशेषकर   sealed   to  prevent  विद्युत  short circuits .
Sump pump systems are  भी   utilized  in  औद्योगिक  and commercial applications  to  control  जल  table -related  समस्याएं   in  surface soil  .
An  आर्टेसियन  aquifer or  आवधिक  high water table situation  can  cause the ground to become unstable due to  जल  saturation .
As long as  the  pump functions ,  the  surface  मृदा  will remain stable .
ये  sumps are  typically   टेन  feet  in  depth or  अधिक  ;  lined   साथ  corrugated metal pipe that contains  perforations   or  drain holes throughout .
They may  शामिल  electronic  कंट्रोल   प्रणालियों   साथ  visual and  audible  alarms and are  प्रायः  covered to  prevent  debris and  पशु  from falling in .
Bleeding Kansas ,  खूनी  Kansas  or  the Border War ,  थी  a series  of  violent political confrontations involving anti-slavery  free-staters  and  pro-slavery  `` Border Ruffian  ``  elements  ,   कि  took place  in   the   कान्सास  Territory and the neighboring  कस्बों   of  Missouri between  1854  and 1861 .
at   the  heart of the conflict was the  सवाल  of whether Kansas would enter  the   संघ  as a  फ़्री  state or  स्लेव   राज्य  .
As such , Bleeding  कान्सास  was  a  proxy war between Northerners and Southerners over  the   समस्या  of slavery in the  संयुक्त   राज्य   .
The term ``  bleeding  Kansas ''  थी  coined by Horace  greeley   of   the  New  यॉर्क  Tribune ; the events  it  encompasses directly  presaged  the American Civil  युद्ध  .
Congress had long struggled to balance the interests of  pro-slavery  forces and anti-slavery forces .
The events later known as  bleeding  Kansas were set  into  motion by the Kansas–Nebraska Act of  1854  , which nullified the Missouri Compromise  और  instead implemented  the   अवधारणा   of  popular sovereignty .
An ostensibly democratic idea  ,   लोकप्रिय   प्रभुता   stated   कि  the inhabitants  of  each territory or state should decide whether  it  would  be  a free  or   स्लेव  state ;  however   ,   इस  resulted in immigration en masse to Kansas  by  activists from both sides  .
at  one  पाइंट  , Kansas  था  two  पृथक  governments , each with its own  संविधान  , although only one was federally recognized .
On  जनवरी  29 ,  1861  , Kansas was admitted  to  the  संघ  as a  फ़्री  state , less than three  महीने  before the Battle  of  Fort Sumter which began the  सिविल  War .
Benzene  is   an   सशुल्क  chemical compound  साथ  the molecular formula C6 H|Hydrogen|H6 .
Its  अणु   is   रचित   of   6   कार्बन   अणु  joined in  a  ring , with 1  हाइड्रोजन  atom attached to  प्रत्येक  carbon atom  .
क्युकी  its molecules contain only carbon  और  hydrogen atoms  ,  benzene  is  classed as a  हाइड्रोकार्बन  .
बेंजीन   is   a  natural constituent of crude oil  ,  and  is   एक  of the most  मौलिक   petrochemicals   .
बेंजीन   is  an aromatic  हाइड्रोकार्बन   और  the second [  n  ] - annulene  (   [  6 ] -annulene ) , a cyclic hydrocarbon  साथ  a  निरन्तर  pi  बंध  .
It is sometimes  abbreviated  Ph –H .  बेंजीन  is  a  colorless  और  highly flammable liquid with a  मीठी  smell  .
It  is  mainly used as a precursor  to  heavy chemicals  ,  such as ethylbenzene and  cumene  , which  हैं  produced on  a  billion kilogram scale  .
क्युकी   it  has a high octane number , it is an important  घटक  of  गैसोलीन  , composing a  few  percent of its  द्रव्यमान  .
Most  non-industrial   अनुप्रयोग  have been limited by  बेंजीन  's carcinogenicity .
Giovanni  virginio  Schiaparelli  (  ; 14 March 1835  –  4 July 1910  )  was  an  Italian astronomer and science  इतिहासकार  .
वी  homebrew  refers   to   the  reuse of  निन्टेंडो  's Wii game  कंसोल   to  run  तन्त्र  that has not been authorized  by  Nintendo  .
It  achieves  this by defeating  the  Wii 's  नक़ल   सुरक्षा   और   कोड  signing  उपायों  .
In more general terms , Wii Homebrew refers to the use of the Wii 's hardware , accessories and software for  उद्देश्य  outside those intended by the manufacturer  .
Original efforts focused  on  using  the  Wii Remote as  a   इंगित   यंत्र   on  other operating  प्रणालियों   ,  or running  web-based   खेल   in   the  built-in web  ब्राउजर  .
subsequent   developments  in  खेल  exploits , such as the `` Twilight hack `` , ``  bannerbomb  ''  और  its later incarnation  ``   letterbomb  ''  ,  `` Smash Stack ''  ,  `` Indiana  pwns  '' , `` Yu-Gi-OWNED  ''   ,   ``  bathaxx ''  ,  and `` Return of the  jodi   ''  ,  बना   installing  the `` Homebrew Channel  ``   संभावित   .
हैडली  (  सही  ) discussing the 2006 Israel-Lebanon crisis  साथ  Bush  और  Rice .
स्टीफन  John Hadley (  born  February 13 , 1947 )  थी   the  21st U.S. Assistant to  the   अध्यक्ष  for National Security Affairs ( commonly referred  as  National  सुरक्षा   सलाहकार  )  ,   सेवारत   अंतर्गत  President George W.  बुश  .
Take identical growing plants and give  उर्वरक  to half  of  them .
if  there are differences between the fertilized  संयंत्र  group  और  the  unfertilized  `` control ''  समूह  , these differences may  be  due to the fertilizer .
A  वैज्ञानिक   कंट्रोल  is an experiment or observation  designed  to minimize the  प्रभाव   of  variables other than the  सिंगल  independent  परिवर्तनीय  .
This  increases   the  reliability of the results  ,  often through a comparison between control measurements and the other  माप   .
Scientific controls are a  भाग   of   the  scientific  विधि   .
For example , during drug testing , scientists will try to control two  समूह   to  keep them as  एकसमान  as possible , then allow  एक  group to try the drug .
Another example might be testing plant fertilizer  by  giving  it  to  तभी   हाफ  the  पौधे  in a  गार्डन  : the plants  कि   प्राप्त  no fertilizer are  the   कंट्रोल   समूह   ,  because  वे  establish the baseline level  of  growth  कि  the fertilizer-treated  पौधे   होगा  be compared against .
Without a control group , the  प्रयोग  can not determine whether the  fertilizer-treated   पौधे  grow more than they would have  if  untreated .
ideally  ,  सब   परिवर्तनीय  in an  प्रयोग  will  be  controlled ( accounted for by the control measurements ) and none  होगा  be uncontrolled .
in  such an  प्रयोग   ,  if  सब   the  controls work as expected , it  is   संभावित  to  conclude   कि  the experiment is working  as  intended and that the results of  the  experiment  हैं  due  to  the effect of the  परिवर्तनीय  being tested  .
That  is  , scientific controls allow  an   अन्वेषक  to make  a  claim  जैसे   ``   दो  situations were  एकसमान   जबतक  factor  x  occurred  .
Since  फ़ैक्टर  X is the only difference  between  the two situations  ,  the new outcome  थी  caused  by  factor X . ''
< < Chemical elements data references
जॉन  Adams  (   अक्तूबर  30  ,  1735 ( O.S . October 19  ,  1735 ) – July  4  , 1826 ) was  the  second president  of  the United  राज्य   (  1797–1801 ) , having earlier served as the first vice  अध्यक्ष   of  the United States .
An  अमरीकी  Founding  पिता   ,   he   थी  a statesman  ,   राजनयिक   ,   और  a leading  एडवोकेट   of   अमरीकी  independence from  ग्रेट  Britain .
Well educated ,  he  was an Enlightenment political theorist who promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas , both in published  works   और  in letters to his wife and key adviser  अबीगैल   as   खूब  as to  अन्य  Founding Fathers  .
Adams came to prominence in  the   जल्दी   चरण   of  the American Revolution .
A lawyer and  पब्लिक  figure  in  Boston ,  as   a  delegate from Massachusetts to the  महाद्वीपीय   कॉंग्रेस   ,  he  निभाई  a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence .
he  assisted Thomas Jefferson in  drafting  the Declaration of Independence in 1776  ,   और  was its  प्राथमिक  advocate  in  the Congress .
Later ,  as  a diplomat  in  Europe , he helped negotiate  the  eventual  सलाम  treaty with Great Britain , and was  जिम्मेदार   लिये   obtaining  vital governmental  लोन  from  एम्सटर्डम  bankers .
A political  theorist  and historian  ,   एडम्स  largely  लिखा  the Massachusetts  संविधान  in  1780  , which together with his earlier  विचार  on Government , influenced American political thought .
One of his greatest roles  थी  as a judge of  अक्षर  :  in  1775 ,  he  nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief  ,  and 25 years  बाद   मनोनीत  John  मार्शल   to  be Chief  इंसाफ  of the United States .
Adams ' revolutionary credentials  secured  him two  शर्तें  as  जार्ज   वॉशिंगटन  's  वाइस  president  और  his own election  in  1796 as  the   दूसरी   अध्यक्ष   .
दौरान  his  एक   पद   ,  he  encountered  ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans , as well as the dominant faction in his  अपना   federalist  Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams signed the  विवादास्पद  Alien and Sedition Acts  ,  and built up the  फौज   और  navy  विशेषकर   in  the face of an  undeclared  naval  युद्ध  (  पुकारा  the ``  quasi-war  `` ) with France ,  1798–1800  .
The major accomplishment of  उसके  presidency was his  शांतिपूर्ण   रेज़ोल्यूशन  of the  विरोध  in  the   फेस  of Hamilton 's opposition .
In 1800 , Adams was defeated for re-election by  थामस  Jefferson and retired  to  Massachusetts .
he  later  resumed  his friendship with  जेफरसन  .
He and  उसके  wife , Abigail Adams , founded an accomplished  परिवार   लकीर  of politicians  ,   राजनयिकों  , and historians now referred to  as  the  एडम्स   राजनैतिक   परिवार  .
Adams was  the  father of  जॉन  Quincy  एडम्स   ,  the sixth President  of  the  संयुक्त  States .
His achievements have received greater recognition  in   आधुनिक   टाइम्स  , though his  योगदान  were not initially as  मनाये  as those  of  other Founders .
Adams  थी  the  पहला   u.S.  president to reside in the  भवन   कि  eventually  became   ज्ञात  as the  श्वेत   हाउस  .
A Watt steam engine .
The  भाप  engine  ,  fuelled  primarily  by  कोयले  , propelled the  औद्योगिक  Revolution in Great Britain  और   the  world .
The Industrial  क्रान्ति  was the transition to new manufacturing  प्रक्रियाओं  that  occurred  in the  काल  from  परिचय  1760 to  कुछ   समय   between   1820   और  1840 .
This transition  शामिल  going  इससे  hand production methods to machines , new chemical manufacturing and iron production processes , improved  दक्षता   of  water power  ,  the increasing use  of  steam power and development of  यंत्र  tools .
The transition also  शामिल  the change  इससे   लकडी   और  other bio-fuels to coal .
The  औद्योगिक  revolution  began  in Britain and within  a  few  दशकों   स्प्रेड  to Western  यूरोपीय  and the United States .
The  औद्योगिक   क्रान्ति   marks  a  प्रमुख  turning point  in   इतिहास  ;  लगभग   प्रत्येक  aspect  of  daily life was influenced in  कुछ  way .
Most notably  ,  average income and  जनसांख्यिकी  began to exhibit  unprecedented  sustained  विकास   .
in  the words of Nobel  पुरस्कार  winner Robert  E.  Lucas , Jr. , ``  लिये   the  first time in history , the living standards of the masses of ordinary people  have  begun to undergo  sustained   विकास   ...   nothing   remotely   जैसे  this economic behavior is  उल्लेखित   by  the  शास्त्रीय   अर्थशास्त्रियों   ,  even as a theoretical possibility .  ''
विलियम   घंटी   स्कॉट  Iron  और  Coal ,  1855-60
the   काल  of  समय  covered by the Industrial Revolution  varies   साथ  different historians .
Eric Hobsbawm held that it 'broke out '  in   ब्रिटेन  in the 1780s and  थी   नहीं  fully felt until the 1830s or 1840s , while T.  S.  Ashton held that  it  occurred roughly  between  1760 and  1830  .
Some 20th-century  इतिहासकारों   ऐसे  as John  clapham   और  Nicholas Crafts have argued  कि  the  प्रक्रम   of  economic and social change  took   प्लेस  gradually  और   the   पद  revolution is  a  misnomer .
This is still  a  subject of debate among historians .
जीडीपी   प्रति  capita was  broadly  stable before  the   औद्योगिक  Revolution  और  the  emergence  of the modern  पूंजीवादी  economy  .
the  Industrial  क्रान्ति  began an  era  of per-capita economic  विकास  in capitalist economies .
आर्थिक   इतिहासकारों  are  in  agreement  कि  the onset of  the  Industrial Revolution is  the   सबसे   महत्वपूर्ण  event in the history of humanity  चूंकि  the  domestication  of animals and  पौधे   .
The First Industrial  क्रान्ति  evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the transition years between 1840 and 1870 , when  technological  and  आर्थिक  progress gained momentum  साथ  the increasing adoption of  steam-powered   नौकाएँ  , ships and railways , the large scale manufacture of  यंत्र   टूल्स  and the increasing use of steam  संचालित   कारखानों  .
Juliet  annmarie  Huddy (  born   सितंबर  27  ,   1969  ) , is an  अमरीकी  television  न्यूज  reporter  ,   फिलहाल  appearing  on  Fox News Channel  .
इस  list  बाँधने  U.S.  शहरों   by   जमीन  area ( not  सहित  bodies of water  )  .
Total  क्षेत्रों  (  सहित   जल  )  हैं   भी   दिए  , but note that , when ranked by  कुल   क्षेत्रफल   ,  a number of coastal  शहरों   appear  disproportionately `` larger  ''  .
San Francisco is an extreme example ; water  makes   up  nearly 80 % of its total area  of  232  वर्गाकार   मील  ( 601  km2  )  .
Note  भी  that in many cases a city may  be   geographically  large primarily because its municipal  सरकारी  has  मिलाया   साथ   the  government of the surrounding  काउंटी  .
In  कुछ  cases the county  no  longer  exists  , while in others  the  arrangement has formed a Consolidated  city–county  ( or city-  बरो  in Alaska , or city- parish  in   louisiana  )  .
ये  are shown in  बिंदास  in  the  list below ( but  नहीं  all  उदाहरण  may be indicated )  .
** These  हैं  independent cities , meaning they  हैं  not  a  part of any county .
the   विशाल  intestine ( or bowel , colon  )  is  the  last part of the digestive system in vertebrate animals .
Its function  is   to  absorb water from the remaining indigestible food matter ,  और  then to pass useless waste material from the body  .
इस  article is  primarily   परिचय  the human gut  ,  though the  सूचना   परिचय   इसके  processes are  सीधे   लागू  to most  स्तनधारियों   .
The large intestine  consists   of  the  cecum  , rectum and anal  कनाल  .
it  starts  in  the  सही   iliac  region  of  the  pelvis  ,  बस  at  or  below  the   सही  waist , where it is joined to the bottom end of the small  आंत   .
From here it continues up  the  abdomen  ,  then across  the  width  of   the  abdominal  गुहा  , and then  it  turns  bas  , continuing  to  its endpoint  at  the anus .
the  large  आंत  is about  long  , which is about one-fifth  of  the  पूरे  length of the intestinal canal .
In  terminologia  Anatomica the large intestine includes the cecum , colon  ,  rectum , and  गुदा  canal .
However ,  कुछ  sources exclude  the  anal canal  .
The Green Bay Packers  हैं  an American  फ़ुटबॉल   टोली  based in Green Bay  ,  Wisconsin .
They are members  of   the  North Division of  the  National Football Conference (  nfc   )  in the National Football League  (  NFL ) .
ग्रीन   खाड़ी   is  the third-oldest franchise  in  the NFL ,  having   महरूम  organized  और  playing in 1919  .
The Packers  हैं   the   तभी  non-profit , community-owned major league professional  खेल  team in  the  United  राज्य   .
The Packers  हैं  the  पिछला   vestige   of  `` small town  टीमों  ''  कि  were once common in  the  NFL during  the  1920s  और   1930s  .
Founded in 1919 by Earl  ``  Curly  ''  Lambeau ( hence the  नाम  Lambeau Field  on  which the  टोली  plays ) and  जार्ज  Whitney Calhoun  ,  the Green Bay Packers can  ट्रेस  their  lineage  to  अन्य  semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to  1896   .
In  1919  and 1920 the  पैकर्स  competed as a semi-professional football  टोली   विरूद्ध  clubs  इससे   around  Wisconsin and  the  Midwest .
They joined the  अमरीकी  Professional  फ़ुटबॉल  Association ( APFA )  in  1921 , the forerunner to what is  ज्ञात  today as  the  National  फ़ुटबॉल   लीग  ( NFL  )  .
हालांकि  Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town ''  टोली   ,  its local  प्रशंसक  base  और   मीडिया   extends  into  आसपास  Milwaukee ;  the   टोली  also played selected home  खेल   वहीँ  between 1933 and 1994 .
the   ग्रीन  Bay Packers have won 13  लीग  championships  (  more  than   कोई  other  टोली  in the NFL  )  , including  नौ  NFL  championships  prior to the  सुपर   कटोरी  era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967  (  Super  कटोरी   i  ) , 1968 ( Super Bowl  ii  ) ,  1997   (   सुपर  Bowl XXXI ) and  2011   (  Super  कटोरी  XLV ) .
The Packers have long-standing  ,  bitter  rivalries   साथ  their  nfc  North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents , the Chicago Bears  ,   मिनेसोटा  Vikings and  the  Detroit Lions  .
The  bears-packers  rivalry  is  one of the oldest rivalries in NFL history , dating back  to  1921 .
The  सैन  Fernando Valley ( locally  ज्ञात  as ``  the  Valley  ''  )  is  an urbanized  घाटी  located in the Los  एंजिल्स  metropolitan area  of   दक्षिणी  California , United States , defined by the mountains  of  the  अनुप्रस्थ  Ranges circling  it   .
Home to 1.76  लाख   लोगों  ,  it  lies north of the  larger  and more populous  लॉस  Angeles Basin  .
Nearly  दो   तिहाई  of the  घाटी  's  जमीन  area  is  part of the City of Los Angeles .
the   अन्य  incorporated cities  in  the  घाटी  are Glendale  ,   burbank  ,  सैन  Fernando ,  छुपा  Hills and Calabasas  .
San Fernando  घाटी   ,  Los Angeles
The exterior  of  the current World of  coca-cola  at Pemberton  प्लेस  .
The World  of   coca-cola   ,  is  a   स्थाई  exhibition featuring the history of The Coca-Cola Company  .
इसके   well-known  advertising as well as a host  of   entertainment  areas and attractions , and  is  located in  अटलांटा  , Georgia ( where the company 's headquarters are located ) at  pemberton  Place  (  named  in  honor of  जॉन   pemberton   ,  the inventor of  coca-cola   )  .
as  part of Georgia 's museums .
the complex  स्तिथ   आरपार   बेकर  Street from  centennial   ओलम्पिक  Park that is home to the Georgia  एक्वेरियम   और   भविष्य  Center for Civil & Human Rights .
it  opened to the  पब्लिक   on  May 24  ,  2007 , relocating  इससे   और  replacing the original exhibit .
Pretties is a 2005 science fiction  अनोखा  and the second book of  the  Uglies  त्रयी  written by Scott  westerfeld  .
It is set in a  भविष्य   dystopian   संसार   in  which everyone  is  turned `` Pretty  ''  by extreme cosmetic surgery upon  reaching   आयु  16  .
It tells the story of teenager Tally Youngblood who rebels against society  's  enforced conformity .
Susan Leigh  vaughan  Smith  (  born September 26  ,   1971  )  is  an American woman sentenced to life in prison for murdering  उसके   children   .
Born in Union , South Carolina  ,  and a former student of the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of  दक्षिण   कैरोलिना   संघ  , she  थी  convicted  on  July 22 , 1995 for murdering  उसके  two sons , 3-year-old  माइकल   डेनियल  Smith , born October 10 , 1991 ,  और   14-month-old   सिकंदर   टायलर  Smith , born August 5 ,  1993  .
the  case  gained  worldwide attention  shortly  after it developed ,  due  to  उसके  claiming  कि  a  ब्लैक   man  stole her car and  kidnapped   उसके   बेटे  .
She later  claimed  that she suffered  इससे  mental health issues  कि  impaired her judgment .
According  to  the South Carolina  विभाग  of Corrections , Smith will be  योग्य   लिये  parole on November 4 , 2024  ,  after  सेवारत  a minimum of  तीस  years  .
She is  incarcerated  at South  कैरोलिना   's   leath   correctional   संस्था  , near Greenwood .
Mount  mckinley  ( also  ज्ञात  as  denali  taken from the Inuit Koyukon  athabaskan   भाषा  meaning ``  the   ग्रेट  One  ''  ) is  the   उच्चतम  mountain peak  in  the United  राज्य  and  in  North America with a  समिट  elevation  of  above sea level .
at  some ,  the  base to  शिखर  rise is considered the  largest   of  any  पहाड़   situated   entirely  above sea level .
measured  by topographic prominence ,  it  is the third most prominent peak after Mount Everest and Aconcagua .
Located  in  the Alaska Range in the interior of US state of Alaska  ,  it is the centerpiece of Denali National  पार्क  and  बचाना  .
the   पहला   यूरोपीय   to   दस्तावेज़   sighting  the mountain was George Vancouver  in   1794  .
In  1903  , James  wickersham  recorded the first attempt at climbing McKinley which was  unsuccessful  .
in  1906 ,  फ्रेडरिक  Cook claimed the first ascent which was  बाद  proven  to   be   गलत  .
The first  verifiable   ascent   to  McKinley  's  summit was  हासिल   on  June  7  , 1913 by climbers Hudson Stuck  ,  Harry Karstens  ,  Walter Harper , and Robert Tatum .
in  1951 , Bradford Washburn  pioneered  the West Buttress route considered to be the safest  और   easiest   रूट  and therefore the most  लोकप्रिय  currently in use  .
the  Honda S600  is  an automobile manufactured by Honda  .
it  was launched in March 1964 .
Available as  a  roadster – bearing strong  प्रतिरूप   to  the Honda  s500  – and  as   a   fastback  coupé – introduced in March 1965 – the  s600  was  the   पहला   होंडा  available in  दो  trim  स्तर  .
दौरान   इसके  production run up to 1966  ,   the  model  स्टाइलिंग   होता   remain  pretty much the  वही  , with  the  most  notable  changes coming to  the  front grille ,  बम्पर  , and headlights .
Powered by a DOHC  ,  water-cooled , four-cylinder  इनलाइन  engine  साथ  four  carburetors  ,  the   इंजन  capacity was increased to 606 cc  इससे   the  S500 's 531 cc  .
The engine produced at  8,500  rpm and  था   a  top speed  of   .
With  the   convertible  weighing  in  at mere , the extra sheet metal of  the  coupe  तभी  added to the overall weight .
Suspension was independent with  sealed  roller chain drive to each rear  व्हील  .
The S600 was the  पहला   द्रव्यमान  marketed Honda car  .
पहला  offered only  in  right-hand  ड्राइव   ,  it soon became available  in   left-hand  drive to  अपील  to export markets  .
There were  a  few  pre-production  S500s manufactured  in  left hand  ड्राइव  , two or  तीन  even being shown  in   कुछ  early sales brochures  .
Both the  s600  roadster  और  coupé  यहूद  available  in   मानक  trim  और   a  special  ,  upgraded  पैकेज  called the SM600  जिससे  included , among other  वस्तुएं  , special paint colors , exclusive badging , a standard radio  और  speaker ,  a  special antenna in  the  passenger  पक्ष  sun visor , standard  reversing  lights , a standard cigarette  हल्का  , a  मानक   हीटर  , better cushioned seats ,  और  a detachable seat track for quick removal  of  the passenger seat .
Honda built 3,912 roadsters  in  1964 , with production  चढ़ाई  to 7,261 convertibles and  1,519  coupes in 1965  .
उत्पादन  dropped off  in  1966  (   as  they were shifting to the  s800   )  with only 111 roadsters and 281  coupes  , giving tallies  of  11,284  convertibles  and  1,800  coupes  लिये  the 3  साल   स्पैन  .
Everybody  hates  Chris is an American  टेलीविज़न   काल  sitcom that  depicts  the  teenage  experiences of comedian Chris Rock  (  who is  भी  the narrator ) while growing up  in  the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of  ब्रुकलीन  ,  नई  York .
The show  is  set between 1983 and 1987  ;  however  ,   चट्टान   खुद  was  a   किशोरावस्था  between 1978  और   1983   .
Rock grew  up   साथ  a  लड़के  named Kenny  montero  , whom he has often  referred  to  as  the inspiration  लिये  a  लॉट   of  the episodes .
In many interviews , Rock has described  केनी   as  the reason he got into comedy  in  the first  प्लेस  .
The show  's   शीर्षक  parodies the CBS  sitcom  Everybody Loves Raymond  .
Rock stated : `` Everybody Loves Raymond but  everybody  Hates Chris ! `` .
The show  's  lead actors are Tyler James Williams , Terry Crews  ,  Tichina Arnold , Tequan Richmond ,  imani  Hakim  ,  and Vincent Martella  .
In Fall 2008 , the  the   cw  moved Everybody Hates Chris and The  खेल  to the Friday night  मौत   स्लॉट   .
The fourth  ऋतु  of  the  series  premiered   शुक्रवार  , October 3  ,  2008 , at 8:00PM  eastern/7:00pm  Central .
On  may  21 , 2009 , The CW announced that it had cancelled Everybody Hates Chris  .
Prior to this , executive producer Chris Rock announced that the end  of  season 4  matched   up  with his own past—dropping out  of  high school  to  become a comedian—and that it  थी   समय   to   समाप्त  the show .
Pleural effusion is excess  द्रव   कि  accumulates between the two  pleural   परतों  ,  the   fluid-filled   स्पेस   कि  surrounds the lungs .
Excessive  amounts  of  ऐसे  fluid can impair breathing  by  limiting  the  expansion of the lungs  दौरान  ventilation .
Beowulf ( ; in  बूढ़ा  English or  )  is the  conventional  title of an  बूढ़ा   अंग्रेज़ी   वीर  epic poem consisting of 3182 alliterative long lines ,  नियत  in Scandinavia , commonly cited as one of  the  most  महत्वपूर्ण  works  of   anglo-saxon   साहित्य  .
it  survives in  a   सिंगल  manuscript  ज्ञात   as  the Nowell Codex  .
इसके   संयोजन  by  an  anonymous  anglo-saxon  poet is dated  between  the  8th  and the early  11th  century .
in   1731  , the manuscript was  badly  damaged by a fire that swept  through  a building housing a collection of Medieval  पांडुलिपियों   समवेत  by  सर  Robert Bruce Cotton .
the   कविता  fell  into   अस्पष्टता   लिये   दशकों   ,  and its  अस्तित्व  did not become widely known again until it  थी   मुद्रित  in 1815  in  an  संस्करण   prepared  by  the   icelandic-danish  scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin .
In the  कविता   ,  Beowulf , a hero of the Geats  in   scandinavia  , comes  to  the help of  hroðgar  ,  the   किंग  of the  danes  ,  जिनकी  mead hall ( in Heorot )  रै   महरूम   अंतर्गत  attack by  a   दानव  known as Grendel  .
After  बियोवुल्फ़  slays him ,  grendel   's  mother  हमले  the hall and is  तब  also defeated .
Victorious , Beowulf goes home  to  Geatland in  स्वीडन  and  बाद  becomes  किंग  of the Geats .
After a period of fifty years has  passed  , Beowulf defeats a dragon , but is fatally wounded in the battle .
After his death  ,   उसके  attendants bury him in a tumulus , a burial mound , in Geatland .
Shem Ham  और  Japheth by James  tissot   1904  .
Shem ( ; Sēm ;  अरबी  : Sām  ;  Ge'ez : ሴም  ,  Sēm  ;   ``  renown ; prosperity ; name '' ) was  एक  of  the  sons  of   नूह  in the Hebrew Bible  as  well as  in   इस्लामी   साहित्य  .
He is most  popularly   regarded  as the eldest  बेटे  , though some traditions regard him as the  दूसरी   बेटे  .
Genesis 10:21 refers  to  relative  आयु  of Shem  और  his  bhai   japheth  ,  लकिन  with  sufficient  ambiguity to have yielded different  अनुवाद   .
The verse  is  translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also ,  the   पिता   of  all the  children  of Eber , the brother of Japheth the elder , even to him  यहूद  children born . ``  .
However ,  the  New American Standard  बाइबल  gives , ``  भी  to Shem , the  पिता  of all  the  children  of  Eber  ,   और  the older  bhai  of  japheth  , children were born .  ''
Genesis 11:10 records  कि  Shem was still 100 years old at the birth of Arphaxad , ( but nearly 101  -  see Chronology  नोट  , ) two  सालो   बाद  the flood ,  बनाना  him barely 99  at  the time the flood began  ;  and  कि   he  lived for another  500  years after  इस  , making his age at  मौत   600  years .
The children of Shem were Elam , Asshur ,  arphaxad   ,  Lud , and  aram  ,  in  addition to daughters  .
Abraham , the patriarch of  the   hebrews  and Arabs , was  एक  of the descendants of Arphaxad  .
Islamic  साहित्य  describes Shem as one of the believing  बेटे   of   नूह   .
Some  स्त्रोत  even identify  shem  as a prophet  in  his own right and  कि  he was the  अगला  prophet  बाद   उसके  father .
In one  मुस्लिम  legend  ,  Shem was  एक  of the people that God  बना  Jesus resurrect as a sign to the Children of Israel  .
The 1st  सदी   इतिहासकार  Flavius Josephus  ,   among  many others , recounted the tradition that these five sons were  the  progenitors of the nations of Elam  ,  Assyria ,  chaldea  , Lydia , and Syria , respectively  .
Semitic  is  still a  commonly  used  पद   लिये  the  सामीती   भाषाएं   ,  as a subset of  the  Afro-Asiatic languages ,  denoting  the  आम  linguistic heritage of Arabic ,  aramaic  , Akkadian  ,  Ethiopic , Hebrew and Phoenician languages .
According to  कुछ  Jewish  परंपराओं   (  e.g. , B. Talmud Nedarim  32b  ; Genesis Rabbah  46:7  ; Genesis Rabbah 56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah  25:6  ; Numbers Rabbah 4:8  .   )  , Shem is believed to have  महरूम  Melchizedek , King  of  Salem whom Abraham  is   अंकित  to have met  बाद   the  battle of  the   चार  kings .
In a few of the many extra-biblical  स्त्रोत   कि  describe  उसे  , Shem is also credited with  हत्या   nimrod  ,  बेटे  of Cush  .
Shem is mentioned in Genesis  5:32  , 6:10 ; 7:13 ;  9:18,23,26-27   ;  10  ;  11:10  ;   भी  in 1 Chronicles 1:4 .
भौगोलिक   identifications  of Flavius Josephus , c. 100 AD  ;  Japheth 's sons  दिखाया   in  red ,  हैम   's   बेटे  in  ब्लू  ,  shem  's sons in green .
go   पापा   or  Go  पापा   समूह   inc.  is  a  privately held company that  is  primarily  an  internet  डोमेन  registrar and web hosting company  .
Go  पापा  Group Inc.  दायर   लिये  an IPO in 2006 ,  लकिन  later  रद्द  it ,  due  to `` market  uncertainties   ''  .
in  addition to  डोमेन   पंजीकरण  and  होस्टिंग  Go Daddy also sells e-business  सम्बन्धित  software and services .
On June 24 , 2011 , The  वॉल  Street Journal reported that private-equity firms  केकेआर  and Silver Lake  साझेदार  ,  साथ  with  a  third investor , were  nearing  a deal to  ख़रीदे  the  कम्पनी  for between $ 2–2.5  अरब  .
on  July 1 ,  2011   go  Daddy confirmed that KKR , Silver  झील  Partners  और  Technology Crossover  ventures  had closed the deal  .
Although the purchase  दाम   थी   नहीं   officially  announced  it  was reported  to  be $ 2.25 billion  ,  for 65 % of the  कम्पनी  .
,   bob  Parsons  था  ceded the CEO  भूमिका   of  Go Daddy to Warren Adelman  ,  who  था  been with the  कम्पनी   लिये   परिचय  10 years .
The  andorran   कोट  of  बाहें   at  the  andorran  parliament .
अंडोरा  ( ; , ) ,  officially   the   principality  of  अंडोरा  (  )  , also called the Principality of the  घाटियों   of   अंडोरा  ,  (  ) , is  a  landlocked microstate in  southwestern   यूरोपीय  ,  स्तिथ   in  the  पूर्वी  Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain  और   फ़्रांस  .
It is the sixth  smallest  nation in Europe  ,   having   an  area of and an estimated population of 85,000 in  2012   .
इसके   पूंजी   ,  Andorra  la  Vella ,  is  the highest  पूंजी  city in Europe  ,  at an elevation of above sea level .
The official  भाषा  is Catalan , although  स्पेनी  , Portuguese  ,  and  फ्रेंच   हैं  also  commonly  spoken  .
निर्मित   अंतर्गत  a  चार्टर   in  988  ,  the present  principality  was formed in 1278 .
it  is known as a principality as  it  is a monarchy headed  by  two co-princes – the Bishop of Urgell and  the  President of France  .
अंडोरा   is  a  prosperous  country  मुख्यतः  because of  इसके  tourism industry , which  सेवाएं  an  अनुमानित  10.2  लाख   विज़िटर  annually , and  भी  because of  इसके   औकात   as  a  कर  haven .
it  is not a member of the  यूरोपीय  Union  ,  but the  यूरोपियन  is the de  facto   करेंसी  .
the   लोगों  of  अंडोरा  have  the   4th  highest human  जीवन  expectancy  in  the world — 82 years at birth  .
The George  वॉशिंगटन  University  (  GW  ,  GWU ,  or  George Washington ) is  a  comprehensive  निजी  , coeducational  शोध   विश्वविद्यालयों  located  in  Washington  ,  D.C. .
it  awards certificates , Bachelor  डिग्री  , Masters degrees  ,  and PhDs across several dozen  disciplines  .
The university  थी  chartered by an  अधिनियम  of  कॉंग्रेस   on  February 9  ,  1821 as The Columbian College in  the   ज़िला  of Columbia .
Kimberly Noel  ``  Kim '' Kardashian  (  born  अक्तूबर  21 , 1980 ) is an American  socialite  , television personality and occasional  अभिनेत्री   .
In 2007  ,  she  gained  notoriety  as   the   विषय  of  a   sex   टेप  that subsequently  resulted   in  a court awarding her $ 5 million ; later in  कि   वही  year  ,  she and her family rose  to   prominence  with their E !
reality television series Keeping  up  with the Kardashians , and  इसके  subsequent spin-offs  ,  including Kourtney and Kim  लो  New York and Kourtney  और  Kim  लो  Miami  .
In  2010  , Kardashian  थी  the highest-earning reality star , with estimated earnings of  $   6  million  .
साथ   बहनों   कोर्टनी   और  Khloé  ,  Kardashian co-owns the fashion  बुटीक   कड़ी  D-A-S-H .
She has been  शामिल   in   the   उत्पादन   of  several  लाइनों  of clothing  और   सुगंध  .
In  अगस्त  2011 ,  कार्दशियन  married  बास्केट  player  क्रिस   humphries  in  a   widely   publicized  ceremony .
कि   अक्तूबर  , Kardashian filed for  तलाक   following   72  days  of  marriage .
The move garnered significant backlash from the media , who labeled it a `` publicity stunt '' .
बाद  536  दिनों  , Kardashian and Humphries reached  an   अघोषित  settlement at the Los  एंजिल्स   श्रेष्ठ  Court ,  finalizing   the   तलाक  in April 2013 .
Aerial view  of  Oahu with freeways  और  highways  ,  3D computer-generated image
Fly-around tour of  the  island
oahu  ( )  or  Oahu  ,  known  as  ``  the  Gathering Place  ''  ,  is  the  तीसरा   largest  of the Hawaiian  आइलैंड्स  and the most populous of the  आइलैंड्स  in the U.S. state  of  Hawaii .
The state capital ,  होनोलूलू  , is  on   oahu  's southeast coast .
Including small close-in offshore  आइलैंड्स  such as Ford Island and  the  islands in  kaneohe  Bay  और   बंद  the eastern ( windward ) coast  ,  it has a total land  क्षेत्रफल  of , making it  the   20th   largest   द्वीप  in the United States .
In the greatest  आयाम  , this volcanic island  is  long and across .
the  length of the shoreline is .
The island  is  the  परिणाम  of two  पृथक   शील्ड  volcanoes : Waianae and Koolau , with a broad  ``  valley '' or saddle  (  the central Oahu  मैदान   )  between  उन्हें  .
The highest  पाइंट  is Mt . Ka'ala in  the  Waianae Range  ,   उठती   to  above sea level .
The base currency of the United States is the  u.S.   डालर  ,  और  is  मुद्रित  on bills in denominations of $  1  , $ 2 , $ 5 ,  $  10 ,  $  20  ,   $  50 , and $  100   .
At  एक  time , however , U.S. currency  शामिल  five larger denominations .
Notes  in  the  denominations  of  $  500  ,  $  1,000  , $ 5,000 , and  $   10,000  were  मुद्रित  for  सामान्य  use ,  और  a  $   100,000  note was printed for certain  आतंरिक   ट्रांजेक्शन  .
अंग्रेजों  Honduras was a  अंग्रेजों   उपनिवेश  in Central America .
In 1981 ,  the  colony gained full independence , and  is  now  the   स्वतंत्र  nation  of   बेलीज़  .
First colonised by Spaniards in the 17th century , the  territory   on  the east  coast  of Central America  ,   दक्षिण  of Mexico  ,  became a British  क्राउन  colony in  1862  .
In 1964  ,  it became a  self-governing  colony .
Belize became  fully   स्वतंत्र  from  the   संयुक्त   किंगडम  in  1981  .
Belize was  the  last  महाद्वीपीय  possession  of   the  United  किंगडम  in  the   americas  .
Spelt  ,  also known as dinkel  गेहूं  , or hulled wheat , is an ancient species of  गेहूं  from  the   पांचवां  millennium BC  .
Spelt was  an  important  स्टेपल  in parts of Europe from the Bronze Age to  मध्यकालीन  times ;  it  now  survives  as a  relict   क्रॉप  in Central Europe and northern Spain and has found a new market  as  a health food .
Spelt is sometimes considered  a  subspecies of the closely related  प्रजाति  common wheat ( T. aestivum  )  , in which case its  वनस्पति  name is  माना  to  be   triticum  aestivum subsp . spelta  .
It is a hexaploid wheat  ,   जिससे  means  it   रै  six sets  of  chromosomes .
Sherlock Holmes ( or )  is  a  fictional  detective  निर्मित  by author and physician Sir  आर्थर  Conan Doyle .
A London-based  ``   परामर्श  detective  ''  whose abilities border on the fantastic , Holmes is  प्रसिद्ध  for his astute logical reasoning  ,  his ability  to  adopt almost any disguise , and his use of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases .
Holmes  ,   जो  first appeared in publication  in   1887   ,  was featured in  चार  novels and 56  छोटी  stories  .
The first novel , A Study in Scarlet , appeared in Beeton 's Christmas Annual  in  1887 and  the   दूसरी  , The  चिह्न  of  the  Four , in  lippincott  's Monthly Magazine in 1890  .
The character  grew  tremendously in  लोकप्रियता   साथ  the  पहला   श्रेणी  of  छोटी  stories  in  The Strand Magazine , beginning with A Scandal in  बोहेमिया  in 1891 ;  further  series  of  short  कहानियां  and  दो  novels published in  सीरियल  form appeared between then and  1927  .
the   कहानियां  cover a  काल   इससे  around  1880  up  to  1914 .
All but  चार   कहानियां  are narrated  by  Holmes 's  dost  and biographer  ,  Dr.  जॉन  H.  वाटसन  ; two are narrated  by   holmes  himself ( `` The Blanched Soldier  ``  and `` The  शेर  's Mane  ``  )  और  two others are written  in   the   तीसरा   व्यक्ति  (  ``  The  mazarin  Stone `` and ``  उसके  Last Bow  ``  )  .
In two  कहानियां  ( `` The  musgrave  Ritual `` and `` The Gloria Scott  ``  ) , Holmes tells Watson  the  main  स्टोरी  from his memories , while  वाटसन  becomes the narrator of the frame story  .
The first and fourth novels , A Study in  स्कारलेट   और   the  Valley  of  Fear  ,  each include a long interval of omniscient  narration   recounting  events unknown to either  holmes   or   वाटसन  .
the   संयुक्त  States House of Representatives is one of  the  two houses  of   the  United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature  )  .
It is frequently referred  to  as the House .
the  other house  is  the Senate .
The composition and powers of the  हाउस   हैं   स्थापित  in Article One of the United States Constitution .
The major power of the  हाउस  is to pass federal  विधान  that affects the entire country although its bills must  भी  be  passed  by the Senate and  further  agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law (  जबतक   दोनो  the House and Senate  re-pass  the  विधान   साथ  a  two-thirds  majority in each  कक्ष   )  .
The House has several  विशेष   शक्तियां   :  the power to initiate  आय  bills , to  impeach   officials  ,  और   to  elect the  u.S.  President in  मामला  there is  no  majority in  the  Electoral  कॉलेज   .
Each U.S. state is represented  in  the House  in  proportion  to   इसके  population but is entitled to  at  least  एक  representative  .
The most populous state  ,  California , currently has  53  representatives  .
The  कुल  number of voting  प्रतिनिधि  is  फिक्स्ड   by   विधि  at 435 .
प्रत्येक  representative serves  लिये  a  two-year  term .
The Speaker  of  the United States House of Representatives  ,  who presides over the chamber ,  is   निर्वाचित   by  the members of the  हाउस  ,  और  is  इसलिए  traditionally the leader  of   the   हाउस   लोकतांत्रिक  Caucus or the House Republican Conference  ,  whichever party has  अधिक  voting members .
The  हाउस  meets in the  दक्षिण  wing of the United  राज्य  Capitol  .
Jell-O  is  a brand name belonging to U.S.-based Kraft Foods for  a  number  of  gelatin desserts , including fruit gels ,  puddings  and no-bake cream pies .
The  ब्रांड   's   लोकप्रियता  has led  to  it being used as  a  generic  पद  for  जिलेटिन   मिठाई  across  the  U.S. and Canada .
Kennywood is an amusement park located  in  West Mifflin , Pennsylvania , a suburb of  पिट्सबर्ग   .
the  park first opened  in   1898  as a  ``  trolley  पार्क  '' attraction at the end of the Mellon family  's  Monongahela  गली  Railway .
The park was purchased in 1906 by F. W. Henninger and Andrew McSwigan and  यूँ   began  the  kennywood  Entertainment company that has  remained   a   closely   आयोजित   परिवार  business  लिये  over 100  सालो  .
This traditional amusement park  स्टिल   रै  structures and rides  डेटिंग  back  to   इसके  opening and  the   जल्दी  1900s  .
Along with Rye Playland  पार्क  ,  it  is one  of  only two amusement  पार्क  listed  in  the  नेशनल  Register  of  Historic  स्थान  .
Kennywood is  स्वामित्व  by  kennywood   entertainment  Company , which  जबतक  December 2007  थी  a closely held family business owned by the Henninger and McSwigan families .
Kennywood Entertainment is now operated by California-based Palace Entertainment ,  a  subsidiary of Parques Reunidos , an international  मनोरंजन  park  कम्पनी  based in Madrid , Spain  .
Parque Reunidos is  in  turn  a   subsidiary  of Candover Investments  ,  an investment  निधि  based in  the  UK  .
a  Social Security  कार्ड  issued by  the  Railroad Retirement Board  in  1943 to  a   अभी  deceased person .
In the United States , a Social Security number  (  SSN )  is   a  nine-digit number  जारी  to  u.S.  citizens , permanent  निवासियों  , and temporary ( working )  निवासियों  under section 205 ( c  )   (   2   )  of the  सोशल  Security Act  ,  codified as .
The number  is   जारी   to  an individual  by  the Social  सुरक्षा   प्रशासन   ,   an  independent agency of the  संयुक्त  States government .
Its primary  purpose  is to track  individuals  for Social Security  उद्देश्य  .
A Social  सुरक्षा   क्रमांक   may  be obtained by applying on Form  ss-5   ,  `` Application  लिये  A Social Security  क्रमांक  Card ''  .
minimalism  describes movements in various forms of  आर्ट  and design , especially visual art and music , where the work  is  set  आउट  to  expose  the  essence  or  पहचान   of   a  subject through eliminating all non-essential forms , features or  अवधारणाओं  .
Minimalism is any design or style  in   जिससे  the  सरलतम  and fewest elements are used to create the maximum effect .
As a specific  गति  in the arts  it  is identified  साथ   developments  in post–World War II Western Art  ,  most strongly with  अमरीकी  visual arts in the 1960s and early 1970s .
Prominent  कलाकारों  associated with this movement include  डोनाल्ड  Judd , John McCracken , Agnes Martin  ,  Dan Flavin ,  रॉबर्ट  Morris  ,  Anne Truitt  ,   और   फ़्रैंक  Stella .
It  is  rooted in the reductive aspects of Modernism , and is often interpreted  as  a reaction against Abstract  अभिव्यंजनावाद  and a  सेतु  to  postminimal  art practices  .
The terms have expanded to  encompass   a  movement  in  music which  सुविधाएँ   repetition  and iteration , as  in  the compositions of La Monte Young , Terry  रिले  , Steve Reich ,  फिलिप  Glass , and John Adams .
Minimalist compositions are sometimes known  as  systems music .
The term `` minimalist  ''  is often applied  colloquially   to  designate anything that is spare  or   stripped   to  its  अनिवार्य   .
It  रै  also been used to  describe  the plays  और  novels of Samuel Beckett , the  films   of  Robert Bresson , the stories  of   रेमंड  Carver , and  भी  the automobile designs of Colin  chapman   .
The word was  पहला  used in English  in  the early 20th century  to  describe the  mensheviks  .
in   रसायन   और  physics  ,  Dalton 's law ( also  पुकारा  Dalton 's law of partial  pressures  )  राज्य   कि  the  कुल  pressure exerted by  the  mixture  of  non-reactive gases is equal  to   the  sum of the partial pressures of individual gases .
इस   अनुभवजन्य  law  थी  observed by John Dalton  in  1801  और   is  related  to  the ideal  गैस  laws .
Mathematically , the pressure of a  मिश्रण  of  गैसों  can be defined as the summation
or
जहाँ  represent the partial pressure  of  each component .
It  is   assumed  that the gases do not react with each other
where is the mole fraction of the i-th component in the total mixture of  n  components .
The relationship below provides a way to determine the  आवाज़  based  विशेषज्ञता  of any individual gaseous  घटक
where is  the  concentration  of  the i-th component expressed in ppm  .
Dalton 's  विधि   is  not exactly followed  by  real gases .
Those deviations are  considerably  large at high  pressures  .
In such  शर्तें  , the  आवाज़  occupied by  the   अणुओं  can become significant compared to  the  free space between  उन्हें  .
in  particular , the short average distances between  अणुओं  raises  the   तीव्रता   of   intermolecular   शक्तियां  between gas  अणुओं  enough to substantially change the  दबाव   exerted  by  उन्हें  .
Neither of those effects are considered by the ideal gas  मॉडल  .
इस   is  a list of the largest United States  कॉलेजों  and universities by enrollment for colleges and universities in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   .
What this list includes:
Colleges and universities within the United States
विश्वविद्यालयों  systems if the system  is   चलाएं   अंतर्गत  a  सिंगल  administration
Enrollment  is   the   योग  of the headcount  of  undergraduate and graduate students
नामांकन  is  गिने  by the Integrated  post-secondary  Education  प्रणाली   भीतर   the  U.S. Department of Education  .
Enrollment  is  the 12-month unduplicated headcount , indicating  the   क्रमांक   of  unique students who  attended  the university  दौरान  the year  .
What  इस   सूची  does not include:
Any indication of how  अनेक  of the enrolled students are full or  भाग  time  (  e.g. , some universities may have a  ऊँची  enrollment  ,  but have most  विद्यार्थी   नामांकित   in  only a single  क्लास   )
For other lists  कि   माप   विश्वविद्यालयों  enrollment  ,  see the  देखिए   भी   खण्ड   नीचे  .
``  Right Round '' is  a   सोंग   performed   by   अमरीकी   rapper  Flo Rida , released  as  the lead single from his second studio  एल्बम  ,  r.o.o.t.s  . ( 2009 )  .
The song  सुविधाएँ  guest vocals from  kesha  .
it  was released to radio on  27  January 2009 and  थी  digitally released on 10  फ़रवरी   by   पो  Boy Entertainment and Atlantic Records .
The  सोंग  lyrically  बोलती   of  Flo  rida  's net ball  रेफरी   enthusiasm  , while adapting the  कोरस   of  the 1984 Dead  or   जिंदा  song  ``  You  स्पिन  Me Round  (   जैसे  a Record ) `` in its hook .
According to one of  the   सोंग  's  लेखक   ,  the  कोरस  refers  to  oral  sex   .
Kesha contributed  अतिथि  vocals  to  the  सोंग  , but in the United States ,  दौरान   the   चलाएं  atop the chart , Kesha  थी  uncredited .
The song received mostly  ऋणात्मक  reviews from  आलोचकों   ,  who claimed it was  kitsch  and  misogynistic  .
however   ,  it was a  वाणिज्यिक   कामयाबी  ,  reaching   the   शीर्ष  ten  of  the charts in nineteen countries worldwide .
In the  संयुक्त   राज्य  , it became  flo  Rida  's  second number-one single and broke  the  record for first-week sales when it was released  to   डिजिटल  retailers  .
the  single  's   accompanying  music video  थी  directed by Malcolm Jones and  मनोनीत  for  an   एमटीवी   वीडियो  Music Award .
The song has  महरूम  used  in  several movies , such as The Hangover , The  भद्दा  Truth and the Telugu movie  pilla  Zamindar .
In  the  movie  पिच   पूर्ण  ,  the  song is performed by the a cappella group the Treblemakers .
The Chief  इंसाफ  of the United States is  the  head of the  संयुक्त  States federal court system ( the judicial branch  of   the  federal government of the  संयुक्त  States  )   और   the  chief  न्यायधीश  of the Supreme Court of the United States .
The Chief Justice  is   एक  of nine Supreme  अदालत   justices   ;  the other eight are the Associate Justices of the  परम्  Court  of  the United  राज्य  .
इससे  1789 until 1866 , the office  थी   ज्ञात  as the  मुख्य  Justice of the Supreme  अदालत  .
The Chief Justice  is   the  highest judicial  अधिकारी  in  the  country , and  अधिनियमों   as  a chief administrative officer for  the  federal courts  और   as   सिर  of the  न्यायिक  Conference of  the  United States  appoints  the director of the  प्रशासनिक  Office of the United States  न्यायालयों  .
The  मुख्य   इंसाफ  also serves as  a  spokesperson  लिये   the   न्यायिक   शाखा   .
The Chief  इंसाफ  leads the business  of   the  Supreme Court .
He  presides  over oral arguments before the court  .
When  the  court renders an opinion ,  the   मुख्य  Justice—when  in  the  majority—decides  who  writes   the  court  's   राय  .
The Chief  इंसाफ  also has significant agenda-setting power over the  अदालत  's meetings .
in  the case  of  an impeachment of a President  of  the United  राज्य  ,  जिससे  has occurred  twice  , the  मुख्य  Justice presides  over  the trial  in  the  सीनेट  .
in  modern tradition  ,  the Chief Justice  रै  the ceremonial duty of administering  the  oath of  दफ्तर   of  the President of  the  United States .
The  पहला  Chief Justice  थी  John Jay  .
the  17th and current Chief  इंसाफ   is  John  G.  Roberts , Jr .
Caribou near  prudhoe   खाड़ी  ,  1973
Prudhoe Bay Oil Field is  a   विशाल   आयल   फ़ील्ड  on Alaska 's North Slope  .
It is  the   largest  oil field  in  both the United States and in North America  ,  covering and originally containing approximately of oil .
The amount of  recoverable  oil in  the  field is more than double  कि   of   the  next  largest  field in the  संयुक्त  States , the  ईस्ट  Texas oil field .
the  field is operated by BP ; partners are ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips Alaska .
Labor unions  हैं   legally  recognized  as  representatives  of  workers in many industries in the United States  .
Their activity today centers on collective bargaining over wages , benefits  ,   और   working  conditions for their membership , and  on  representing their  सदस्यों  in  विवादों  with management over  उल्लंघनों   of  contract  प्रावधानों   .
larger  unions also typically engage in  lobbying  activities and electioneering  at  the state and federal level .
सबसे   संघ  in America  हैं   लकीर  with one  of  two  larger  umbrella organizations :  the  AFL-CIO created in 1955 , and  the  Change to Win Federation which split from the AFL-CIO in 2005 .
दोनो   एडवोकेट  policies and  विधान   on  behalf of workers in the United States and Canada  ,  and take  an  active role  in   राजनीती  .
The  afl-cio  is especially  चिंतित  with global trade issues  .
In  2010  , the percentage of workers  belonging   to  a  संघ  in the United  राज्य   (  or total labor union  ``   घनत्व  ''  )  was  11.4   %  , compared to 18.4 %  in  Germany ,  27.5   %  in Canada  ,  and 70  %   in  Finland .
संघ  membership in the private sector  रै  fallen under 7  %  — levels not  देखी  since 1932 .
संघ  allege  कि  employer-incited opposition has contributed  to  this decline in  सदस्यता   .
The  सबसे  prominent unions  हैं   among  public  सेक्टर   कर्मचारी  such  as  teachers  और  police .
सदस्यों  of unions are  disproportionately   पुरानी  , male and  निवासियों  of  the  Northeast , the Midwest , and California .
Union workers average 10-30  %  higher  अदा   than   non-union  in America after controlling for  व्यक्तिगत   ,  job  ,   और  labor market  विशेषताएँ  .
हालांकि   much   छोटी  compared  to   उनके  peak membership in the 1950s , American unions  remain  a prominent political factor , both through mobilization  of   उनके  own  सदस्यताएँ  and through coalitions  साथ  like-minded activist organizations around  मुद्दे  such as immigrant  अधिकारों   ,  trade policy , health  परवाह  , and living wage campaigns .
to   लड़ो   कथित   नियोक्ता   anti-union  programs  ,  unions are  फिलहाल  advocating new `` card  जाँच   ``  federal legislation that would require employers  to  bargain with a  संघ   if   अधिक  than 50 % of workers signed  फ़ॉर्म  , or  ``   ताश  , '' stating  वे   काश   to   be  represented  by  that union  .
The current procedure  involves  waiting 45  to  90 days for a  federally   पर्यवेक्षित  secret-ballot employee referendum on  the  subject .
The  अर्थशास्त्री   जोसेफ  Stiglitz  रै   asserted   कि  , `` Strong unions have helped to reduce inequality  ,  whereas weaker  संघ  have  बना  it easier for CEOs  ,   sometimes   working   साथ  market forces that they have helped shape ,  to  increase it .  ''
The decline in  unionization  since WWII in the United States  रै  been associated with  a   सुनाया   वृद्धि  in income  और   माल  inequality .
A Christian Lacroix fashion boutique
A boutique is  a   छोटी  shopping outlet , especially  एक  that  specializes   in  elite and fashionable items such as clothing  और  jewelry .
The word is  फ्रेंच  for `` shop  ''   ,  via  लैटिन  from Greek ἀποθήκη (  apothēkē  ) , `` storehouse '' .
The term entered into everyday English  उपयोग  in  the  late 1960s when  ,  for a  ब्रैड  period  ,   लंदन  was the centre  of  the fashion trade  .
Carnaby Street and the Kings Road were the  फ़ोकस  of much media attention as home to  the  most fashionable  boutiques  of  the  era .
Now the East  of   लंदन   रै  been regenerated and more Boutiques  पॉप  up in fashionable areas , such as Tower Bridge Road .
It can also refer to a specialised  कड़   ऐसे   as  a  बुटीक  investment bank or  बुटीक   विधि   कड़  .
The word is often  प्रयुक्त  to describe a property in  the  independent  खण्ड  of the hotel  मार्केट   (  such  as  The Rockwell in London )  in  order to distinguish themselves  इससे  larger chains ( such  as  Hilton Hotels ) .
In such cases the establishments aim to convey  the  idea that  the  operation is elite and  अत्यधिक  specialised .
In  the  strictest  भाव  of  the  word , boutiques would be  one-of-a-kind  but more generally  बोलना  , some chains can be  referred  to as boutiques  if   वे  specialize in particular  शैलियाँ  .
recently  ,  the   पद  `` boutique '' has  प्रारंभ   होने  applied to normally-mass-market items that  हैं  either niche or produced in  intentionally  small numbers at  बहुत  high prices .
This may  be   referred   to  as boutique  निर्माण  .
For  उदाहरण  ,  पहले   the   रिलीज  of the Wii , a Time  पत्रिका  article  सुझाया  that Nintendo could become  a  ``  बुटीक  video-game  कम्पनी  '' , producing games  लिये  niche audiences , rather  than   trying  to compete directly with  microsoft   और  Sony .
In the  परंपरागत  luxury- watch industry Scalfaro International  is   माना   as  the precursor  in  manufacturing and sale of bespoke  घड़ियाँ   .
The Swiss company uses a highly flexible boutique  निर्माण  site , which  allows  producing small  श्रेणी  or even  अद्वितीय   timepieces  .
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made items and other truly one-of-a-kind items , others  बस   उपज   t-shirts  ,  स्टिकर  , and  अन्य  fashion accessories  in  artificially small runs and sell them  at   unusually  high prices .
In  the   जल्दी  1990s Selena  प्रारंभ  manufacturing her own line of women 's clothing .
Opening two  boutiques  labeled as  ``  Selena Etc .  बुटीक  & Salon ''  एक   स्तिथ   in   कॉर्पस  Christi and  एक  located  in  San  अंतोनियो  , Texas .
One  थी  due to open in Monterrey , Mexico , in 1995  लकिन  due to  उसके   मौत   it  was not  खोली  .
around  1999 the San  अंतोनियो   स्थान  closed and  the   कॉर्पस  Christi  स्थान   थी  closed in  2009  .
In  लेट  1990s some European retail traders  विकसित  the idea of  tailoring  a shop  towards  a lifestyle  थीम  ,  in   the  form  of   ``  concept stores '' , which specialised in  cross-selling  without using  पृथक  departments .
One of the  पहला  concept stores was 10  कोरसो  Como in  मिलान  , Italy followed  by   colette  in Paris and Quartier 206 in  बर्लिन  .
Several well-known  अमरीकी   जंजीरों   ऐसे   as   शहरी   outfitters  ,  d-a-s-h   ,   और  The Gap , Australian  कड़ी  Billabong and , though less common  ,  Lord  &  Taylor adapted  to  the concept store trend  बाद  2000 .
Navy  संघीय  Credit Union (  or  Navy  संघीय  )  is  a  क्रेडिट  union headquartered in Vienna , Virginia , chartered and regulated under the authority of the National Credit  संघ  Administration  (  NCUA  )   of  the U.S. federal government .
Navy Federal is the  largest  natural member  (   or  retail )  क्रेडिट  union in  the  world , both in asset size and  in  membership .
as  of September 2012 , Navy  संघीय  had over  $  50 billion USD in  एसेट  ,  और  over 4 million members .
stevland  Hardaway Morris  (   born   may   13  ,  1950  as Stevland Hardaway Judkins ) , known by his stage name Stevie Wonder ,  is  an  अमरीकी  singer  ,  songwriter  ,   और  multi-instrumentalist , a  चाइल्ड  prodigy who developed  into  one of the  सबसे  creative musical figures of  the  late 20th century .
अँधा  since shortly after birth , Wonder signed with Motown 's Tamla  लेबल  at  the  age of eleven  ,   और  continues to perform  और  record  लिये  Motown  to  this day  .
among   अचरज  's best  ज्ञात  works are singles  ऐसे  as ``  अंधविश्वास   ``  , `` Sir  ड्यूक  `` , `` You Are the Sunshine  of  My  जीवन   ``  and  ``  I  बस  Called to  कह  I Love You `` .
Well known albums also include Talking Book , Innervisions  और  Songs in the  कुंजी  of Life .
He has recorded  अधिक  than  तीस  U.S. top  टेन  hits  और  received twenty-two Grammy Awards , the  सबसे  ever  awarded  to a male  सोलो  artist  .
अचरज  is  भी   विख्यात  for his work as  an   activist  for political causes , including  उसके  1980 campaign to make Martin Luther  किंग   ,  Jr. 's  जन्मदिवस  a holiday  in   the  United States .
In 2009  ,  Wonder was named  a  United Nations Messenger  of  Peace .
In  2008  , Billboard magazine  released   a  list of  the  Hot  100  All-Time Top Artists to  celebrate  the US singles chart 's  पचासवें  anniversary , with Wonder at number five .
By  लोकप्रिय  vote ,  स्टीवी  was inducted into The SoulMusic Hall  of  Fame  at  SoulMusic.com in December  2012  .
Psychosis (  इससे   the   यूनानी  ψυχή `` psyche '' , for mind/soul , and -ωσις `` -osis  ''  , for  असामान्य   कंडीशन   or   derangement  )  refers  to an abnormal condition of the mind  ,  and is  a  generic psychiatric term for  a  mental  राज्य  often  वर्णित   as   involving  a `` loss of contact with  वास्तविकता  `` .
People suffering from  मनस्ताप  are described as psychotic .
Psychosis is given to the more severe forms of psychiatric disorder ,  दौरान  which hallucinations and  delusions   ,   सकल  excitement or  बेहोशी  and  impaired   इनसाइट   may  occur .
the  term  ``   मनस्ताप  '' is very broad and can mean anything from  अपेक्षाकृत  normal aberrant experiences  through  to the complex and  catatonic  expressions of  schizophrenia  and  द्विध्रुवी  type 1  विकार  .
moreover   a  wide  किस्में  of central nervous system diseases  ,  from both  बाह्य   substances  and internal physiologic  बीमारी  ,  can  produce  लक्षण   of  psychosis .
This led many professionals to  कह  that psychosis  is  not specific enough  as   a  diagnostic term .
despite  this ,  ``  psychosis  ''  is generally given to noticeable  deficits  in normal  बर्ताव  ( negative  लक्षण  )  और  more  commonly  to diverse types of hallucinations  or   delusional  beliefs  (  e.g . grandiosity  ,  delusions  of   persecution  ) .
Someone  exhibiting  very obvious signs may  be   वर्णित  as  ``  frankly psychotic  ''   ,  whereas one exhibiting very subtle signs could be classified in the category of  an  `` attenuated  psychotic  risk  सिंड्रोम  ''  .
an   excess   in  dopaminergic signalling  is  traditionally linked to  the   धनात्मक   लक्षण  of psychosis  ,   विशेषकर  those of schizophrenia  .
This  is  thought to occur through a mechanism of aberrant salience  of  environmental stimuli .
Many antipsychotic  दवाएँ  accordingly  निशाना  the  dopamine  system ;  meta-analyses   of  placebo-controlled  ट्रायल  of these drugs , however  ,   दिखाएँ  either  no  significant difference between drug and placebo  ,  or a very small  प्रभाव  size  ,  suggesting that the  pathophysiology   of   मनस्ताप  is  much   अधिक  complex  than  an overactive dopamine system .
लोगों  experiencing psychosis may exhibit  कुछ   व्यक्तित्व  changes and  विचार  disorder  .
Depending on  इसके  severity ,  इस  may be  accompanied  by unusual or  विचित्र   बर्ताव  , as well as difficulty with social interaction and impairment  in  carrying  आउट  daily life  क्रियाएँ  .
General Grievous is  a   fictional   अक्षर  in the Star Wars  ब्रह्मांड  .
A  पुनरावर्ती  antagonist , he  is  the Supreme Commander of the  confederacy  of Independent Systems , a political faction  of  planetary systems  waging   युद्ध  on the Galactic  गणतंत्र  .
Trained  in  all seven forms  of  lightsaber combat by Count  dooku  , he is  a  ruthless and  शक्तिशाली  warrior  devoted  to  जेडी  's destruction during  the  Clone Wars .
His  अधिनियमों  of wanton aggression  और  high Jedi body  गिनती   होता  prompt  the  galaxy to give  उसे  the nickname  the   knightslayer  .
हालांकि  the notorious  जेडी  slayer was  the  being in  the   आकाशगंगा   दौरान  the Clone  युद्धों   जो  had killed  the  most Jedi  in  single combat  ,  he  किया   नहीं   संकोच  to flee  इससे  battles he knew he would  खोना  .
आंकडे  play  an  important role in summarizing  बेसबॉल  performance  और   evaluating  players in the sport  .
Since the flow of  a  baseball game has natural breaks to  it  , and normally players act individually rather  than   performing  in clusters  ,  the sport lends  itself  to easy record-keeping and  आंकडे  .
Statistics  have   महरूम  kept for professional baseball since the creation of the  नेशनल  League and American League  ,   अभी  part of Major League Baseball .
Many statistics are also available from outside of Major League  बेसबॉल  , from leagues such as the National Association of Professional  आधार   बॉल   खिलाड़ी  and  the  Negro  लीग  .
Dorothea  lange  's  migrant  Mother depicts destitute  मटर  pickers in California  ,   centering  on  फ्लोरेंस   ओवेन्स   थॉम्पसन  ,  आयु  32  ,  a mother of  सात  children , in Nipomo  ,  California ,  कूच   1936   .
यूएसए  annual  रियल  GDP  इससे  1910–60 , with the years  of  the Great  अवसाद  ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
the  unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960  ,  with the years of the Great Depression (  1929–1939   )   highlighted  .
the  Great Depression was a severe worldwide  आर्थिक  depression in  the   दशक  preceding  संसार  War II  .
The timing of  the   ग्रेट  Depression varied across nations , but in  सबसे   देशों   it   प्रारंभ  in  1930  and lasted until the  लेट  1930s or middle  1940s  .
it  was the longest , most  फैली  , and  deepest  depression of  the   20th  century  .
In the  21st  century ,  the  Great Depression is  commonly   प्रयुक्त  as an  उदाहरण  of how far the  संसार   's  economy  can  decline .
The depression originated in  the   u.S.  ,  बाद  the fall in  भण्डार  prices that began  around   सितंबर  4 , 1929  ,  and became worldwide news with  the  stock market crash of October 29 , 1929 ( known as  ब्लैक  Tuesday  )   .
the  Great Depression had devastating  प्रभाव  in countries  समृद्ध  and poor  .
Personal income , tax  आय   ,  profits and  कीमतें  dropped , while international  व्यापार  plunged  by  more than 50 % .
Unemployment  in  the U.S. rose to 25  %  , and  in   कुछ  countries rose as high as 33  %  .
Cities all around the world were hit hard ,  विशेषकर  those dependent on heavy industry .
Construction  थी  virtually  halted  in many countries .
Farming  और  rural areas suffered as  क्रॉप  prices fell by approximately 60 % .
facing  plummeting demand with  few   वैकल्पिक   स्त्रोत   of  jobs , areas dependent on primary sector industries  ऐसे  as  नकदी  cropping ,  खनन  and  लॉगिंग  suffered  the  most  .
Some  economies  started to recover by the mid-1930s  .
In many countries  ,  the negative  प्रभाव   of  the  ग्रेट   अवसाद  lasted until the  समाप्त   of  World War II .
A premature ventricular contraction  (   पीवीसी  )  ,   भी  known as  a   असामयिक   ventricular   जटिल  , ventricular premature  संकुचन   (   or  complex or  देवालय  ) ( VPC  )  ,  ventricular  premature beat  (  VPB  )  ,  or   ventricular  extrasystole  (   ves   )   ,  is a  अपेक्षाकृत   आम  event where  the   धड़कन  is initiated by  purkinje   मछली  in the ventricles rather  than  by  the   sinoatrial  node ,  the  normal heartbeat  initiator  .
The electrical  कार्यक्रम   of  the heart detected  by  the electrocardiogram allow a PVC  to  be easily distinguished from a normal heart beat .
A  पीवीसी  may be perceived  as  a `` skipped beat `` or felt as  palpitations  in the chest .
In a normal  धड़कन  , the  ventricles  contract after the  atria  have  helped  to  भरण  them by  contracting   ;  in this way the  ventricles  can pump a maximized amount of  रक्त   दोनो   to  the  फेफड़े  and to  the  rest  of  the body  .
In a PVC , the  ventricles  contract first  और  before  the  atria have optimally filled the ventricles  साथ  blood  ,   जिससे  means  कि   परिसंचरण   is   अकुशल  .
However  ,  single beat  पीवीसी  arrhythmias do  नहीं   प्रायः   पोज़  a danger and can  be  asymptomatic in healthy individuals  .
William  गेरी   busey   (   born  June  29  ,  1944  )  ,  better known  as  Gary Busey , is an  अमरीकी  film and  स्टेज  actor , and artist  .
he  has appeared  in  a variety of films , including  lethal   हथियार  ,  पाइंट  Break  ,   और  Under  घेरा  , as  खूब   as   अतिथि   दिखावे   on  Gunsmoke ,  वाकर  , Texas Ranger , Law & Order  ,  and  अनुगामी   .
he  was nominated for an Academy Award  लिये  Best Actor  in  1978 for  उसके  role  in   the  Buddy  होली   स्टोरी  .
the  Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( ACTA  )   ,   is  a  बहुराष्ट्रीय  treaty for the purpose  of  establishing international standards for intellectual property  अधिकारों  enforcement .
the  agreement aims to establish an international  विधिक  framework for targeting counterfeit goods  ,   जेनेरिक   दवाइयाँ  and copyright  infringement  on the Internet ,  और   होता   बनाएँ  a new governing  देह  outside existing forums  ,  such as the World Trade  संगठन  , the World  बौद्धिक  Property Organization  ,   or   the   संयुक्त  Nations  .
The agreement was  हस्ताक्षरित  in October 2011 by Australia , Canada ,  जापानी  , Morocco , New Zealand , Singapore , South Korea , and  the   संयुक्त  States  .
In 2012  ,   मैक्सिको  , the  यूरोपीय   संघ  and  22  countries  जिससे  are member states  of  the European Union  हस्ताक्षरित  as well .
One signatory ( Japan )  रै   ratified  ( formally  स्वीकृत  ) the  अनुबंध  , which would come into  फ़ोर्स  in  देशों  that  ratified  it  बाद  ratification by six countries .
समर्थक   have  described the  अनुबंध  as  a  response  to  `` the  बढ़ाएँ  in  वैश्विक  trade  of   नकली   goods  and pirated  कापीराइट   सुरक्षित  works ''  .
ट्रेड  Unions representing workers in the  म्यूज़िक  , film  और   tv  industries  और   विशाल   बौद्धिक  property-based organizations such  as  the Motion Picture Association of America and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers  of  America  यहूद  active in the treaty 's development .
Opponents  कह  the convention adversely affects  आधारभूत  rights including freedom of expression and  गोपनीयता  .
ACTA has also been criticised  by  Doctors  बगैर   सीमायें  for endangering access to medicines  in  developing countries  .
The  रहस्य  nature of negotiations has excluded  सिविल  society groups  ,  developing countries and the general public  इससे  the  अनुबंध  's negotiation  प्रक्रम  and it has been described as policy laundering  by   आलोचकों  including the Electronic  frontier  Foundation and the Entertainment Consumers  संघ  .
The signature of the  eu  and  अनेक  of its member states resulted in the resignation  in  protest of  the  European Parliament 's appointed  मुख्य  investigator  ,  rapporteur Kader Arif , as well as widespread  विरोध  across Europe .
In 2012  the  newly-appointed rapporteur  ,  British MEP David Martin  ,  recommended against  the   सन्धि   ,  stating  :  `` The intended benefits  of  this international  अनुबंध   हैं  far outweighed by  the  potential  खतरे   to   सिविल  liberties '' .
On 4 July  2012  ,  the  European Parliament rejected the agreement  in   plenary  session  ,  with 478  मतदान  against  the  treaty  ,  39  in   पक्ष  and  165   meps   abstaining  .
faw  semi-trailer truck in China
Tractor  साथ  side dump trailer  semi-trailer
A  ट्रैक्टर  with an auto-transport semi-trailer  .
Semi-trailer truck with sleeper behind  the   टैक्सी  .
a  semi-trailer truck is  an   articulated  vehicle that  consists   of  a towing engine , known as a  ट्रैक्टर  in  the  United States and truck  in  many other places , attached to  एक   or  more semi-trailers to carry  भाड़ा  .
It is also  ज्ञात  as  a   हस्तांतरण  in Canada , prime mover in Australia , semi , tractor-trailer , truck and trailer , transfer  ट्रक  ,  18-wheeler  , mack truck ,  बिग   रिग  in the United  राज्य  , or artic  ,  short for  articulated  lorry ,  in   ब्रिटेन   और  Ireland  .
a  semi-trailer does not trail completely behind  the   towing  vehicle , but is attached  at   a  point  कि  is just forward of  the  rear-most axle of  the  towing unit .
This is done  so  that a fraction of the weight of the trailer  is   carried  by  the  prime  प्रस्तावक  .
This arrangement means that both tractor and semi-trailer  होगा  have a  distinctly  different design  than   a  rigid  ट्रक  and trailer .
The Pittsburgh  स्टीलर्स  are a  पेशेवर   फ़ुटबॉल   टोली  based  in  Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania .
The team currently belongs  to  the North Division of the American Football Conference ( AFC  )  in  the  National Football League (  एनएफएल  )  .
Founded in  ,  the Steelers are  the  oldest franchise  in  the AFC .
Pittsburgh has won more  सुपर  Bowl titles ( six ) ,  जीती  more  afc  Championship  खेल  ( eight ) and played in (  पंद्रह   )   और  hosted more  (   ग्यारह  ) conference  चैंपियनशिप  games  than  any other AFC  or  NFC  टोली  .
the  Steelers  share  the record for most Super  कटोरी   दिखावे   साथ   the  Dallas  cowboys  (  आठ  ) .
The  स्टीलर्स  won  उनके  most recent championship ,  सुपर   कटोरी  XLIII  ,   on  February 1  ,   2009  .
The Steelers  यहूद   संस्थापित  as the Pittsburgh Pirates  on  July 8  ,  1933  ,   by   आर्ट   रूनी   ,  taking  इसके   असली   नाम  from the  बेसबॉल  team of the same name , as was common practice  लिये  NFL teams to  do   at  the time .
The ownership  of  the Steelers  रै  remained within  the  Rooney family since its founding .
The current owner  is  Art 's  बेटे  , Dan Rooney ,  जो  has given much control of the franchise  to  his son Art Rooney II .
Long one  of   the   एनएफएल   's  flagship  टीमों  ,  the  Steelers enjoy a large , widespread fanbase nicknamed Steeler  स्वदेश   .
The Steelers currently  खेल   उनके  home  खेल  at Heinz Field  on   पिट्सबर्ग  's North Side  in   the   उत्तर   shore  neighborhood  ,   जिससे  also  होस्ट  the University of Pittsburgh  पैंथर्स  .
Built in 2001 , the stadium  replaced  Three Rivers Stadium  जिससे  hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons .
Prior  to   तीन   नदियाँ  , the Steelers  था  played their games in  pitt  Stadium and Forbes Field .
Three  अलग  kinds of wheat and  rye   आटा
आटा  is a  चूर्ण  which is  बना   by  grinding cereal grains ,  or  other seeds or  जड़ें  ( like  कसावा  )  .
It is  the  main  संघटक  of bread ,  जिससे  is  a   स्टेपल  food  लिये  many cultures , making  the  availability of  पर्याप्त  supplies of flour  a   प्रमुख   आर्थिक  and  राजनैतिक  issue at various times  throughout  history .
Wheat flour  is  one of  the  most important foods  in  European , North American  ,   मध्य   पूर्वी  , Indian  और  North African cultures , and is the defining  संघटक  in most  of  their styles of breads and  pastries  .
While wheat is the  सबसे  common  आधार  for flour , corn  आटा  has been  महत्वपूर्ण  in  mesoamerican   भोजन   चूंकि  ancient times  ,  and remains  a   स्टेपल   throughout  the  americas   .
Rye flour  is   an  important constituent of bread  in  much of  सेंट्रल  Europe , and rice can also be  प्रयुक्त  in flour , though this is  अपेक्षाकृत   uncommon  .
Heart rate is  the   क्रमांक  of heartbeats per  ईकाई  of time  ,  typically expressed as beats per  मिनट  ( bpm )  .
Heart rate can  vary  as the body 's need to  अवशोषित   ऑक्सीजन  and excrete  कार्बन   डाइऑक्साइड  changes  ,  such as  दौरान   शारीरिक  exercise  ,  sleep , illness  ,   or  as a result of ingesting drugs :
Central nervous  प्रणाली  stimulants such as amphetamines  बढ़ाएँ  heart rate .
Central  बेचैन  system depressants  or  sedatives decreases  the   दिल  rate ( apart from  कुछ   विशेषकर  strange ones with equally strange effects ,  ऐसे  as  केटामाइन  which can  कारण  -  amongst  many other things -  stimulant-like   प्रभाव   ऐसे  as tachycardia )  .
There are many ways in which the heart rate speeds up or slows  bas   .
Most  involve  stimulant-like endorphins and  हार्मोन   होने   released  in  the  brain , many  of  which  हैं   those   कि  are 'forced'/'enticed ' out by  the   ingestion   और  processing of  दवाएँ  .
Due to individuals  having   a   निरंतर   रक्त  volume , one  of   the  physiological ways to deliver more oxygen to  an  organ is  to  increase  दिल  rate  to  permit blood to pass  by  the  अंग   अधिक  often .
Normal resting  दिल   दरों   दायरा  from 60-100 bpm  .
मंदनाड़ी  is defined as a  resting  heart  रेट   नीचे   60  bpm .
However , heart  दरों   इससे  50 to 60 bpm are common  among  healthy people and  do  not necessarily require  खास  attention  .
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart  रेट   ऊपर  100 bpm , though persistent  बाकी  rates  between   80-100  bpm ,  मुख्यतः  if they are present  दौरान  sleep ,  may   be  signs  of   हाइपरथाइरॉयडिज़्म  or anemia ( see below ) .
Catherine II 's  carved  , painted  और  gilded Coronation Coach ( Hermitage  संग्रहालय  )
A carriage  is  a wheeled vehicle  लिये  people , usually horse-drawn  ;  litters ( palanquins ) and sedan  कुर्सियां  are excluded  ,   चूंकि  they  हैं  wheelless  वाहनों  .
The  carriage   is  especially designed  लिये  private  यात्री  use and  लिये  comfort or  लालित्य  ,  हालांकि  some are  भी  used  to  transport  goods  .
it  may be light , smart  और   तेज़  or  भारी  ,  विशाल  and  आरामदायक  .
Carriages  सामान्यतः  have suspension  using   पत्ता  springs , elliptical springs ( in the 19th century )  or   चमड़े   दीर्घकाय  .
A public passenger  गाडी  would not  प्रायः  be called  a  carriage  –  terms for such include  stagecoach  , charabanc  और  omnibus .
working  vehicles  ऐसे   as   the   (  four-wheeled ) wagon and ( two-wheeled ) cart  share  important parts  of  the  इतिहास  of the carriage ,  as  is the fast  (  two-wheeled  )  chariot .
the  2004 Indian Ocean  भूकंप  was an undersea megathrust  भूकंप  that  occurred   at  00:58:53 UTC on Sunday ,  26   दिसम्बर  2004 , with an epicentre  बंद   the   वेस्ट  coast of Sumatra ,  इंडोनेशिया  .
the  quake  itself  is known  by  the scientific  जातियाँ  as  the  Sumatra–Andaman earthquake  .
The resulting  सुनामी  was  दिए  various  names  , including the 2004 Indian  समंदर   सुनामी  ,  दक्षिण  Asian tsunami  ,   इंडोनेशियाई  tsunami , and  the  Boxing Day tsunami .
the   भूकंप  was caused by  subduction  and  triggered  a series of  विनाशकारी  tsunamis  साथ   the  coasts  of   सबसे  landmasses bordering the Indian Ocean  ,  killing over 230,000 people in fourteen  देशों  , and inundating coastal  समुदायों  with  लहरें   up   to   ऊँची   .
It  थी  one of the deadliest natural disasters  in   अंकित  history .
Indonesia was the hardest-hit country , followed by  श्री  Lanka  ,   इण्डिया  ,  और  Thailand .
साथ  a magnitude of Mw 9.1–9.3 , it  is  the third largest earthquake ever recorded on  a  seismograph .
The earthquake had  the  longest duration of faulting ever observed , between  8.3  and 10 minutes .
It caused the entire planet to vibrate  as  much as  और   triggered  other earthquakes  as  far away as Alaska .
Its  epicentre  was between  simeulue  and  मेनलैंड  Indonesia  .
The  दुर्दशा  of  the  affected people and  देशों  prompted a worldwide humanitarian response .
In all ,  the  worldwide community donated more  than  $  14  billion ( 2004  us  $ ) in  humanitarian  aid  .
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir  geothermal  Power Station in  आइसलैंड  .
Geothermal energy is thermal  उर्जा   उत्पन्न  and stored in the Earth .
थर्मल  energy is the energy that  determines   the  temperature of matter .
The Geothermal energy of the  धरती   's   क्रस्ट  originates  इससे  the original formation of  the  planet (  20  % ) and from  रेडियोसक्रिय  decay  of  minerals ( 80  %   )  .
The geothermal  अनुपात  , which is the  अंतर  in temperature between the core  of   the   ग्रह   और  its surface ,  ड्राइव   a  continuous  conduction  of thermal energy in  the  form of  ऊष्मा  from the  कोर  to the surface .
the  adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη (  ge  ) , meaning earth , and θερμος ( thermos ) , meaning hot  .
At  the  core of the  धरती   ,  thermal  उर्जा   is  created by  रेडियोसक्रिय  decay and  temperatures   may   पहुँचें   over  5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ) .
ऊष्मा   conducts  from  the  core to surrounding  कूलर  rock .
The high temperature and  दबाव   कारण  some  चट्टान  to melt , creating magma convection  upward   चूंकि   it   is  lighter than  the   ठोस  rock .
the   मैग्मा  heats  चट्टान  and  जल  in the crust  ,   sometimes  up to 370 °C  (  700 °F ) .
From hot springs , geothermal energy has been used  लिये   स्नान   चूंकि   paleolithic  times and for space heating since  प्राचीन  Roman times ,  लकिन  it is now  बेहतर  known  लिये  electricity generation .
Worldwide ,  परिचय  10,715 megawatts (  mw   )  of geothermal  शक्ति  is online  in   24  countries .
an   अतिरिक्त  28 gigawatts of direct  geothermal  heating  क्षमता  is installed  लिये   ज़िला  heating , space heating , spas  ,  industrial processes , desalination and agricultural applications  .
Geothermal  शक्ति   is  cost effective  ,   विश्वसनीय  , sustainable , and environmentally friendly ,  लकिन  has historically  महरूम  limited to  क्षेत्रों  near  tectonic   थाली   सीमाएँ  .
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded  the  range and size  of   सुगठित  resources , especially  लिये   अनुप्रयोग   ऐसे   as   घर  heating , opening a potential for widespread exploitation .
geothermal  wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth , but  ये  emissions are much  निम्नतर  per  उर्जा  unit than those of fossil fuels .
As  a  result , geothermal power has  the  potential  to  help mitigate global  वार्मिंग   if   widely   तैनात  in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth  's   geothermal   संसाधन   हैं  theoretically more than adequate to supply  मानवता   's  energy needs , but only a  बहुत  small fraction may  be  profitably exploited .
Drilling and  खोजी  for deep resources is very expensive .
Forecasts  लिये   the   भविष्य  of geothermal power depend on assumptions  परिचय  technology  ,  energy prices ,  subsidies  , and interest  दरों  .
Pilot programs  जैसे  EWEB 's customer opt in  ग्रीन   शक्ति  Program show that customers  होता  be willing  to  pay a  छोटी  more for  a   बेदर्दी  energy  सोर्स   जैसे  geothermal .
But  as  a  परिणाम  of government assisted research and industry experience ,  the  cost of generating geothermal power has  decreased  by  25  % over the past two  दशकों   .
In 2001 ,  geothermal  energy cost  between   दो  and ten cents per kwh .
the   पद   घन   पैर   is  an Imperial  और  US  प्रथागत  ( non- metric )  ईकाई  of  आवाज़  , used in  the  United  राज्य  and  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom .
It  is   पारिभाषित   as  the volume  of  a  घन   साथ  sides  of   एक   पैर  ( 0.3048 m ) in length  .
To  गणना   घन  feet multiply length  x   चौडाई  X height .
hồ   chí  Minh ( Northern  वियतनामी  pronunciation :  ,  Southern Vietnamese pronunciation  :   )  ;  19  May  1890   –  2 September 1969 ) ,  born  Nguyễn Sinh Cung and  भी  known as Nguyễn Tất Thành  और   nguyễn  Ái  quốc  , was a  वियतनामी   कम्युनिस्ट  revolutionary leader who was prime minister (  1945–1955  ) and president ( 1945–1969 ) of the  लोकतांत्रिक  Republic of Vietnam ( North Vietnam  )  .
He was a  कुंजी  figure in the foundation of  the  Democratic  गणतंत्र   of  Vietnam in  1945  , as  खूब  as the  people’s   फौज   of  Vietnam ( PAVN  )  and  the  Việt Cộng ( NLF  or  VC ) during the Vietnam  युद्ध   .
he  led the Việt  मिन्ह  independence movement  इससे   1941  onward ,  establishing  the communist -ruled  लोकतांत्रिक  Republic of  वियतनाम  in  1945  and defeating  the  French Union in  1954  at  the  battle of Điện Biên Phủ .
he  officially  stepped   bas  from power in 1955  due  to  स्वास्थ्य   समस्याएं  , but remained a highly  दृश्य   figurehead  and inspiration for  those   वियतनामी  fighting for his cause—a united , communist Vietnam—until his death  .
After the war ,  साइगॉन  , capital  of  the  गणतंत्र   of  Vietnam , was  renamed   hồ  Chí  मिन्ह  City  .
All  सड़कें  Lead Home is a feature  फिल्मी   released  on September  26   ,   2008   .
Directed by Dennis Fallon  ,   it  stars Peter Boyle , Patton Oswalt ,  जेसन   लंदन   ,  Vivien Cardone , Vanessa  शाखा  , Peter  कायोटी   ,   स्टीफन  Milton , and Allan Kayser  .
The movie was filmed in and  around  Kansas  नगर   ,  Missouri .
the   फिल्म  made its World Premiere  जनवरी  27 at the Santa Barbara International Film  पर्व  .
The film  रै   भी   recently   महरूम   in  several  फिल्मी   त्यौहार   ,   और   रै  received  ख़राब  reviews  .
Peter Boyle died before  the   फिल्म  's release .
It  थी  the last  फिल्म  he appeared in .
बिक्री  taxes  in  the  संयुक्त  States  हैं  taxes placed on  the  sale or lease  of   goods  and services  in  the United States  .
While no national general sales tax exists , the federal  सरकारी   levies  several national selective  बिक्री  taxes on the sale or lease of  particular  goods and services  .
Furthermore , forty-five states , the District  of   कोलंबिया   ,  and Guam  थोपने   सामान्य  sales  कर   कि  apply to the sale or  पट्टे  of most goods and some services  ,  and states also may levy selective sales  कर  on  the   बिक्री  or lease of  particular  goods or  सेवाएं   .
States may also  प्रतिनिधि  to  लोकल  governments the authority to  थोपने   अतिरिक्त  general  or  selective  बिक्री  taxes .
Sales tax is  गणना  by multiplying the  खरीदें   दाम  by the applicable tax  रेट  .
Tax rates vary  widely   by   क्षेत्राधिकार  and range  इससे  less  than   1  % to  over  10  %  .
बिक्री   कर   is  collected  by  the  विक्रेता  at the  समय  of sale  .
Use tax is self assessed by a  खरीदार  who  रै  not  सशुल्क  sales  कर  on a  taxable   खरीदें   .
नापसंद   the  value added tax ,  a  sales  कर   is  imposed  तभी  once , at  the  retail level  .
However ,  in  cases where items  हैं   बेची  at retail more than once  ,  such as used cars , the sales tax can  be  charged  on  the  वही   मद  indefinitely .
The  परिभाषा   of  retail sales  और  what goods  और  services are taxable vary among the states  .
nearly  all jurisdictions provide numerous  श्रेणी   of   goods  and services that are  exempt  from sales tax ,  or  taxed  at  reduced rates .
The  खरीदें   of  goods for  further  manufacture or for  पुनर्विक्रय   is  uniformly  exempt  from  बिक्री  tax .
सबसे  jurisdictions exempt food  बेची  in grocery stores , prescription medications ,  और  many  agricultural  supplies .
Sales taxes , including those imposed by local governments ,  हैं   generally   administered  at  the  state level .
राज्य  imposing sales tax  आवश्यकता  retail  विक्रेता   to  collect tax from customers , file returns , and  remit  the tax to the  राज्य  .
Procedural rules vary widely .
विक्रेता  generally  जरूर  collect tax from  in-state   purchasers  unless the purchaser provides an exemption certificate .
सबसे  states  allow  or  आवश्यकता  electronic remittance .
a  central processing  ईकाई  ( CPU  )  , also referred to as  a   सेंट्रल  processor unit  ,   is   the  hardware within a  कंप्यूटर  that carries  आउट   the  instructions  of   a   कंप्यूटर   कार्यक्रम   by  performing  the  basic arithmetical  ,  logical  ,  and  input/output   परिचालन  of  the  system .
the  term  रै  been in  उपयोग  in  the   कंप्यूटर  industry at least  चूंकि  the  जल्दी   1960s   .
The form , design  ,   और  implementation of CPUs  have  changed over  the  course of their  इतिहास  , but their fundamental operation remains much the same  .
A computer  can   have   अधिक   than   एक  CPU  ;  this is  पुकारा  multiprocessing .
Some integrated  circuits   (  ICs )  can  contain multiple  cpu   on   a  single chip  ;  those  ics  are called multi-core  processors  .
Two typical components of a  cpu  are the arithmetic logic unit (  alu  )  ,   जिससे  performs arithmetic and logical  परिचालन  ,  और   the  control unit ( CU )  ,   जिससे  extracts  निर्देश  from  मेमोरी  and decodes  और  executes  उन्हें  , calling  on  the ALU when  जरुरी   .
Not all computational systems  rely   on  a central processing unit  .
an  array processor or vector processor has multiple parallel computing  तत्व  , with no one unit  माना  the `` center '' .
in  the distributed  कम्प्यूटिंग  model  ,   समस्याएं  are solved by a distributed interconnected set  of  processors .
rfid  chip next to  a  grain  of   राइस  .
This  चिप  contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an external magnetic  फ़ील्ड  to  ट्रांसफ़र  a  coded  identification number when queried by a reader  यंत्र  .
इस  small type  is  incorporated in consumer  उत्पाद  , and  implanted  in  पालतु  , for identification purposes .
radio-frequency   पहचान  ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of  radio-frequency   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  fields to transfer data , for the  उद्देश्य  of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects  .
The tags contain electronically stored information .
कुछ   टैग  are powered  और   पढ़ा   at   छोटी   सीमाएँ   (  a  few  meters  )  via magnetic  फ़ील्ड   (   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  induction )  .
Others  उपयोग  a local power source such as a battery ,  or  else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating EM  फ़ील्ड  , and then  अधिनियम  as a passive transponder  to  emit microwaves  or  UHF radio waves  (  i.e. , electromagnetic  विकिरण  at high frequencies )  .
बैटरी   संचालित  tags  may  operate  at  hundreds of meters .
नापसंद  a bar  कोड  ,  the  tag  करता  not necessarily  need  to be within line of  sight  of the reader ,  और  may be  अंतःस्थापित   in  the tracked object .
RFID tags  हैं  used in many industries .
An RFID tag attached to  an  automobile during production can  be   प्रयुक्त   to  track its progress through the assembly line .
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked  through  warehouses .
Livestock and pets may have  टैग  injected ,  allowing  positive  पहचान  of  the  animal .
Since  rfid   टैग  can be attached  to  clothing , possessions  ,  or even  implanted  within people , the  सम्भावना  of reading  personally-linked  information without consent  रै  raised privacy  चिंताएं  .
Overtime is  the  amount of time  किसी  works  परे   सामान्य  working hours  .
सामान्य  hours may be determined  in  several ways:
by  कस्टम  ( what is considered healthy or  उचित  by society ) ,
by practices  of   a  given trade or profession,
by  legislation,
by  अनुबंध  between employers and  मजदूर  or  उनके  representatives  .
सबसे   राष्ट्र   have   ओवरटाइम   मजदूर   कानून  designed  to  dissuade or prevent  नियोक्ता   इससे  forcing their  कर्मचारी   to  work  excessively   long   घंटों  .
These laws  may  take into account other considerations  than  the  humanitarian  ,  ऐसे  as  preserving   the  health of workers  so  that they  may   continue  to  be  productive  ,   or   increasing   the   overall  level  of  employment  in  the economy .
एक   आम  approach to regulating overtime is  to  require employers  to   अदा  workers  at   a  higher  hourly   रेट   लिये  overtime work  .
कंपनियाँ  may choose  to   अदा  workers  उच्चतर  overtime  अदा  even  if  not  obliged  to  do   so  by law  ,   विशेषकर  if  वे   मानना  that  वे  face a  पिछड़ा  bending supply  वक्र  of  श्रमिक  .
Overtime  अदा   दरों  can  कारण  workers to  कार्य  longer hours than  वे  would  at  a flat hourly rate .
ओवरटाइम   कानून  , attitudes toward overtime and hours of work vary greatly  इससे  country to country  और   between  different economic sectors .
Visualization of links between  पृष्ठों  on a wiki using  a  force-directed layout .
force-directed   आलेख   आरेखण   algorithms   हैं  a class  of   algorithms  for drawing  रेखाचित्र  in an  aesthetically  pleasing  रास्ता  .
उनके  purpose is to position  the  nodes  of  a  आलेख  in  two-dimensional  or  three-dimensional   स्पेस  so that all  the   किनारे  are  of   अधिक  or less equal length and there are as few  क्रासिंग  edges as possible , by assigning forces among the set  of  edges and the  नियत  of  नोड   ,  based  on   उनके  relative  स्थितियाँ  , and then  using  these  शक्तियां  either to simulate  the  motion  of   the   किनारे  and nodes  or  to minimize  उनके   उर्जा   .
While  आलेख  drawing  can  be a  मुश्किल   प्रॉब्लम   ,  force-directed algorithms  ,  being physical  simulations   ,  usually require no special knowledge about graph  सिद्धान्त  such as planarity .
Purchasing power ( sometimes retroactively  पुकारा  adjusted  लिये  inflation )  is  the  राशि  of goods or services that can  be  purchased with  a  unit of  करेंसी  .
For example  ,  if  तुम  had taken one  डालर  to a  स्टोर  in the  1950s  , you would have been able to buy a greater number  of   वस्तुएं  than you would today , indicating  कि  you would  have  had  a  greater purchasing power  in  the 1950s .
करेंसी  can  be  either  a  commodity money , like gold  or  silver , or fiat currency , or  free-floating  market-valued currency like US  डॉलर  .
As  आदम  Smith noted , having money gives  एक   the   क्षमता  to ``  कमांड  ''  अन्य  '  मजदूर  , so purchasing power to some  extent  is power  over  other  लोगों  , to the  extent   कि  they are willing  to  trade their labor or goods for money  or  currency .
If  एक   's   मौद्रिक  income stays  the   वही  , but the price level increases , the  खरीदना  power of that income  जलप्रपात  .
महंगाई  does not always imply falling purchasing power of one 's  धन  income since it may rise faster than the price  स्तर  .
A higher real  आय   अर्थात्  a  उच्चतर  purchasing power  चूंकि  real income  refers  to  the   आय  adjusted  लिये  inflation  .
For a  दाम  index ,  इसके  value in the  आधार  year  is  usually normalized  to   a   मान  of 100  .
The purchasing  शक्ति  of a unit of  करेंसी   ,  say  a  dollar , in  a  given year  ,  expressed in  डॉलर  of the base year  ,  is  100/p  , where P is the price index in that year .
So ,  by  definition  the  purchasing  शक्ति   of  a  डालर  decreases as the  दाम  level rises .
The  खरीदना  power  in  today 's money of  an  amount C of  धन  , t years  into   the   भविष्य  , can be computed with the formula  लिये   the   उपस्थित  value  :
where in this case i is an assumed  भविष्य   सालाना  inflation  रेट   .
Education  in  South Korea is viewed  as   होने  crucial for success  और  competition  is  consequently very  heated   और  fierce .
a  central administration oversees  the  process for  the  education  of  children from  किंडरगार्टन   to  the  तीसरा  and final year  of   ऊँची  school  .
Mathematics ,  विज्ञान  , Korean  ,  English , and social studies are  generally   माना  to be the most important subjects .
Normally physical education is not considered  महत्वपूर्ण  as it is not recognised , by the generally  अकादमिक   elitist  South Korean  populace  , as education and therefore many  स्कूलों   कमी  high-quality gymnasiums  और   varsity  athletics .
South Korea  थी  the  पहला  country  in  the  संसार  to provide  high-speed  internet access  to  all primary ,  जूनियर   ,  and high schools .
Although South Korean students  प्रायः  rank highly on international  तुलनात्मक  assessments when compared to  विद्यार्थी  of most Western education  प्रणालियों  , the South Korean  शिक्षा  system  is  criticised for emphasising  too   much  upon  passive   सीखना   और  memorisation .
The South Korean education system is  बल्कि   notably   सख्त  and overly structured as compared to its counterparts in most Western  समाजों  .
Also , the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes  ऐसे  as  अकादमियों  or cram-schools ( Hagwon  [   학원   ]  ) ,  जिससे  too  emphasise   on  passive memorisation ,  as   opposed  to  conceptual  understanding , in  विद्यार्थी   हैं   criticised   as   a  major social  प्रॉब्लम   .
The My  lai  Massacre  (  , ; ,  ,  or ) was the Vietnam War mass murder of between  347  and  504  unarmed civilians in South Vietnam on March  16  , 1968 ,  by  United  राज्य   फौज  soldiers of `` Charlie  ''  Company  of   1st  Battalion , 20th  infantry  Regiment  ,   11th   ब्रिगेड  of  the  Americal Division .
Victims included  महिलाओं  , men , children , and infants  .
Some of the women were gang-raped  और   उनके  bodies were later found  to  be mutilated and many  महिलाओं  were allegedly raped prior to the killings .
While  26  U.S. soldiers were initially charged with  दण्ड  offenses for  उनके  actions at Mỹ  lai  ,  तभी  Second Lieutenant William Calley  ,  a platoon leader in Charlie Company  ,  was  convicted  .
Found guilty of killing 22  ग्रामीणों  , he was originally given a  जीवन  sentence  ,  but  तभी  served three  और  a half years under house  गिरफ़्तार   .
the   नरसंहार  took place in the  hamlets  of My Lai and My  khe  of Son My village  .
The event is also known as the Son My  नरसंहार  , especially  in  the Vietnamese  राज्य  media .
the  U.S. military codeword for  the  `` Viet Cong stronghold ''  थी  ``  pinkville  '' .
The incident  prompted  global outrage  जब  it  became  public knowledge in 1969 .
The  नरसंहार  also increased domestic opposition to the U.S.  भागीदारी  in  the  Vietnam  युद्ध  .
तीन  U.S.  servicemen  who  था  tried to halt the  नरसंहार  and protect the wounded were initially denounced  by  several U.S . Congressmen as  traitors  .
They received hate  मेल  and death threats and found mutilated animals on  उनके  doorsteps .
The  तीन  were later  widely  praised and decorated by  the  Army for  उनके   वीर   क्रियाएँ  .
The hijackers in the September  11  attacks were 19  मेन  affiliated with  al-qaeda   ,  and 15  of  the 19 were  नागरिकों  of Saudi Arabia .
Others were from Egypt ,  लेबनान   ,   और   the  UAE .
the  hijackers were organized  into  four teams , each led by  a  pilot-trained hijacker with four  ``   मांसपेशी   hijackers  '' who were trained to help  subdue   the  pilots  ,  passengers , and crew .
The  पहला  hijackers to arrive in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  were Khalid  al-mihdhar   और  Nawaf al-Hazmi  ,   जो  settled in the San Diego area  in  January 2000  .
वे   यहूद  followed  by   तीन  hijacker-pilots  ,  Mohamed Atta , Marwan  al-shehhi  , and  ziad   jarrah   जल्दी  in the summer  of  2000  to  undertake  उड़ान  training in  दक्षिण   फ्लोरिडा  .
the   चौथी  hijacker-pilot ,  hani  Hanjour ,  arrived  in  सैन   डिएगो  in  दिसम्बर   2000  .
The rest of the `` muscle hijackers  ''  arrived in  the  spring and early summer of 2001 , just months  पहले  the September 11  हमले   .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad  इब्न  ʿAbd Allāh ibn  ʿabd  al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim (  )  ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632  )   ,   भी   transliterated  as  मुहम्मद  ( ) , was  a   धार्मिक  , political  ,  and military leader from  मक्का  who unified  अरब   into  a  सिंगल  religious  polity  under  islam  .
he  is believed  by  Muslims and Bahá'ís to be a messenger  और  prophet of God .
Muhammad  is  almost universally considered by Muslims  as   the  last prophet  भेजा  by God for mankind .
Non-Muslims regard Muhammad as the founder of  islam  .
Muslims consider him  to   be  the  restorer   of  an unaltered  असली  monotheistic faith of Adam , Noah , Abraham , Moses , Jesus , and other prophets .
Born  in   परिचय   570  CE in the Arabian city  of   मक्का   ,  he was orphaned  at  an  जल्दी  age and brought up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib  .
He  बाद   worked  mostly as a merchant , as well as a shepherd  ,  and was first  शादीशुदा  by age 25 .
होने   in  the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding  kyu  for several nights of  seclusion  and  दुआ   ,  he later  reported   कि  it was there , at age  40  , that he  प्राप्त  his first revelation from God  .
तीन  years after  इस  event Muhammad  प्रारंभ  preaching  ये  revelations publicly  ,   proclaiming   कि  `` God  is   एक  `` ,  कि  complete ``  आत्मसमर्पण  '' to Him ( lit .
islām  )   is   the  only way ( dīn ) acceptable to  परमेश्वर   ,  and  कि  he himself was a prophet and messenger of  परमेश्वर   ,   in   the  same vein as  अन्य  Islamic prophets  .
Muhammad gained few followers early on , and was met with hostility  इससे   कुछ  Meccan  जनजातियों   ;   he  and his  अनुसरणकर्ता  were treated harshly  .
to  escape persecution  ,  Muhammad sent some  of   उसके  followers to Abyssinia before he  और  his followers in  मक्का  migrated  to  Medina  (   तब  known  as  Yathrib )  in  the year  622  .
This event , the Hijra ,  marks  the beginning of the  इस्लामी   पंचांग  , which  is  also known as  the  Hijri Calendar .
in  Medina , Muhammad united  the  tribes  अंतर्गत   the  Constitution of Medina  .
After eight  सालो  of  लड़   साथ   the  Meccan  जनजातियों  , his followers  ,  who by  तब  had grown to  10,000  ,  took  control  of   मक्का   in   the   largely  peaceful Conquest of  मक्का  .
he  destroyed  the  pagan idols in the  नगर  and then  भेजा  his followers  आउट   to   नष्ट  all  of  the remaining  pagan  temples  in  Eastern Arabia  .
In 632 ,  a  few  महीने  after returning to Medina  इससे  The Farewell  यात्राएं  , Muhammad fell ill and  died  .
By the time of his death  ,  most of the  arabian  Peninsula  था   परिवर्तित  to Islam  ,  and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity .
The revelations ( or Ayah  ,  lit .
``  लक्षण  [ of God ] '' ) —  जिससे   मुहम्मद  reported receiving  जबतक  his death – form  the   आयतें  of the Quran  ,  regarded by Muslims as the ``  शब्द  of God '' and  around   जिससे  the  धर्म  is based .
Besides  the  Quran , Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions (  सुन्नत  ) are also upheld by Muslims as  the  sources of  शरीयत   विधि  .
They discuss  मुहम्मद  and other  नबियों  of Islam with reverence , adding the phrase  सलाम   be  upon  उसे  whenever  उनके  names are mentioned .
While conceptions of  मुहम्मद   in  medieval  christendom  and premodern  टाइम्स  were largely negative , appraisals in modern history have been far less so  .
This is  a   सूची  of  टेबल  of the verified  oldest  people  in  the  संसार  in ordinal  रैंक  , such as  oldest  person or oldest man .
in   ये   टेबल  , a supercentenarian is  माना  'verified  '   if  his  or   उसके  claim  रै  been validated by an international body that  specifically   सौदे  in  आयु   शोध  , such  as  the  जराविद्या  Research Group (  grg  ) or Guinness World  रिकॉर्ड  .
The  longest  unambiguously documented  इंसान   जीवनकाल  is  कि   of  Jeanne Calment of France (  1875–1997  )  ,  who  died  at  आयु  122 years , 164 days .
She met Vincent van  gogh  when she  थी  12 or  13  .
This led to news media attention in 1985 ,  बाद   calment   turned  110  .
Subsequent investigation found  दस्तावेज़ीकरण  for  calment  's age , beyond any reasonable question , in  the  records of her native city , Arles  ,  France .
अधिक  evidence of  calment   's  lifespan has been  उत्पादित  than for any  अन्य   supercentenarian  ; her case serves as  an  archetype in the methodology for verifying  the  ages  of  the  संसार  's oldest people .
The  longest  undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is  कि   of   jiroemon   किमुरा   ,  who currently lives  in  Japan  और  is age as of .
Since the death of 115-year old  दीना  Manfredini  of  the United States , on 17 December  2012   ,  Kimura  ,   born  19 April 1897  ,   is  the  oldest  living person in the  संसार  whose  आयु   can  be documented .
He  रै  also been the oldest  जीना  man since  the  death of  114-year   बूढ़ा  Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011 .
Since the  मौत  of  115-year  old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013 ,  the  oldest living  स्त्री   रै  been -year-old Misao  okawa  , also  इससे  Japan  ,  born on 5 March 1898  .
This  is   a  timeline of the African-American Civil Rights Movement .
The  सिविल  Rights movement  थी  a freedom  संघर्ष  by African Americans  in  the 1950s and 1960s to gain  समता  .
The  लक्ष्य  of  the  movement  यहूद  freedom from discrimination  ,  equal opportunity in employment ,  शिक्षा   और  housing  ,  the  सही  to vote and  बराबर  access to  पब्लिक  facilities  .
Heavy metal ( often referred to as metal  )  is a  विधा   of  rock music that developed in the  लेट   1960s   और   जल्दी   1970s  , largely in  the  United  किंगडम   और  in the United States  .
साथ  roots  in  blues  चट्टान  and  साइकेडेलिक  rock  ,  the bands that  निर्मित  heavy metal  विकसित  a thick , massive sound ,  characterized  by highly amplified distortion  ,   विस्तारित  guitar solos , emphatic  बीट्स  , and overall  loudness   .
Heavy  मेटल  lyrics  और  performance styles are generally  संबद्ध  with masculinity  और   machismo  .
The first heavy  मेटल  bands such as Led Zeppelin  ,  Deep Purple  और   ब्लैक  Sabbath attracted large  ऑडियंस   ,  though they were  प्रायः  derided by critics , a status common throughout  the   इतिहास   of  the genre .
In the  mid-1970s  Judas Priest helped  spur  the  विधा  's evolution by discarding much of  इसके  blues influence ; Motörhead introduced a punk rock sensibility and an increasing emphasis on  गति  .
bands  in the New Wave of British  भारी  Metal such as Iron Maiden followed  in  a  समान  vein .
Before the end of the  दशक   ,  heavy  मेटल   प्रशंसक  became known  as  `` metalheads ``  or  `` headbangers  ``   .
दौरान  the 1980s , glam metal became  a   वाणिज्यिक   फ़ोर्स  with groups like Mötley Crüe and Poison  .
Underground scenes produced  an   सरणी  of more extreme ,  आक्रामक  styles : thrash metal  broke  into the mainstream with bands such as Metallica ,  मेगाडेथ  , Slayer , and Anthrax  ,   जबकि  other styles of  the  most extreme subgenres  of  metal like death metal and black  मेटल   remain   subcultural  phenomena  .
Since the  mid-1990s   ,   लोकप्रिय  styles such as nu metal , which often incorporates elements of grunge and hip  हॉप  ;  और  metalcore , which blends extreme  मेटल  with hardcore punk , have  further  expanded  the  definition of the genre .
The far-right  (  also known as the extreme  सही  )  refers  to  the   उच्चतम  degree of rightism in right-wing politics .
Far  सही  politics  involves   support  of strong  or  complete social hierarchy  in  society ,  और  supports supremacy of  निश्चित  individuals  or   समूह  deemed to  be   innately   श्रेष्ठ  or preferable who are  to  be more valued than those  deemed  to be  innately  inferior or undesirable .
The far right  's  advocacy of  supremacism  is  आधारित  on what its adherents perceive as innate characteristics of people that  can   नहीं   be  changed .
This stands as  a  point of  अंतर  with the centre-right 's attribution of behaviours , such as laziness or decadence , as  the   प्राथमिक  sources  of  social  inequalities  .
The  केन्द्र  right—unlike the far right—claims  कि  people  can   समाप्त  their behavioural inferiority through  बदलना  their habits  और  choices .
The  असली  far right ,  जिससे  emerged in  फ़्रांस  after the  फ्रेंच   क्रान्ति  , refused to accept  the  French  गणतंत्र   और  supported a counter-revolution  to  restore  the  French monarchy and aristocracy .
The far  सही  is commonly associated  साथ   व्यक्तियों  or  समूह  who hold  चरम  nationalist ,  xenophobic  , racist ,  धार्मिक  fundamentalist or reactionary  दृश्य  .
The most extreme-right movements  have  pursued  दमन  and genocide against groups  of  people on the  आधार   of   उनके  alleged inferiority .
थामस  Hobbes of Malmesbury (  5  April 1588  –   4  December 1679 )  ,  in  कुछ  older texts Thomas Hobbs  of  Malmsbury  ,  was  an   अंग्रेज़ी   पारस  , best  ज्ञात  today for  उसके   कार्य   on   राजनैतिक  philosophy .
His 1651  किताब   leviathan  established the  न्यास  for most of  पश्चिमी  political philosophy from  the  perspective of  सोशल  contract theory .
Hobbes was  a  champion of absolutism for the sovereign , but he  भी  developed some of the  fundamentals  of  यूरोपीय  liberal thought : the  सही  of the individual ; the  प्राकृतिक  equality of all men  ;   the  artificial character  of   the  political order ( which led to the  बाद   भेद  between  सिविल  society and the  राज्य   )  ;  the  view that all legitimate political  शक्ति  must  be  `` representative '' and  आधारित  on the  सहमति  of the people ; and  a   उदार  interpretation  of   विधि  which leaves people free to do whatever  the  law does  नहीं  explicitly forbid .
he   थी  one of  the  founders  of   आधुनिक  political philosophy .
His understanding of  इंसानो  as being matter and motion  ,   obeying   the   वही  physical laws  as  other matter  और  motion  ,  remains  influential   ;  and his account of human nature as self-interested  सहयोग  , and  of   राजनैतिक  communities as being based upon a ``  सोशल  contract ``  remains   एक  of the  प्रमुख  topics  of  political philosophy .
In  जोड  to  राजनैतिक   दर्शनशास्त्र  , Hobbes  भी  contributed to  a  diverse  सरणी   of   अन्य  fields , including history  ,  geometry  ,   the  physics  of  gases ,  धर्मशास्त्र  , ethics  ,  and  सामान्य  philosophy  .
Emotional intelligence  (   ei  ) is the  क्षमता  to identify , assess , and  कंट्रोल   the  emotions of oneself ,  of  others , and of groups  .
it   can  be  विभाजित   into  ability  ei   और   trait  EI .
Ability EI is  प्रायः  measured  using   अधिकतम   प्रदर्शन   परीक्षण  and has stronger  संबंध  with traditional intelligence , whereas  trait  EI is usually  measured  using  self-report  questionnaires and has stronger relationships with  व्यक्तित्व  .
Criticisms have centered on whether  ei  is  a  real intelligence and whether it has incremental  वैध  over IQ and the Big Five  व्यक्तित्व  traits .
आनुवंशिकता  is  the  passing of traits to offspring from its parents or  पूर्वज  .
इस   is  the  प्रक्रम  by which an offspring cell or organism  acquires   or  becomes predisposed  to   the  characteristics of its parent cell or organism .
Through heredity ,  विसंगतियाँ  exhibited by individuals can accumulate and cause  कुछ  species to  evolve  .
The study of heredity in biology is  पुकारा  genetics , which  शामिल  the field  of  epigenetics .
लिये  United  राज्य  individual income  कर  ,  समायोजित  gross income ( AGI  )  is total gross income minus  विशिष्ट  reductions  .
Taxable income  is  adjusted gross  आय  minus allowances for personal  छूटों  and itemized deductions .
For  सबसे  individual tax purposes  ,  AGI  is  more relevant  than  gross income .
सकल  income is  बिक्री   दाम   of  goods or property  ,  minus cost of the property sold , plus other  आय  .
It includes wages  ,   ब्याज  , dividends , business income ,  rental  income  ,  and all other types  of   आय  .
समायोजित   सकल   आय  is  सकल   आय   कम  deductions from a business or rental activity and 21 other specific  वस्तुएं   .
Several  deductions  (  e.g  .  चिकित्सा  expenses and  विविध  itemized  deductions  ) are limited based on a  प्रतिशत   of  AGI .
Certain phase  outs  , including those of lower tax rates and itemized  deductions   ,  are  आधारित   on  levels  of  AGI .
अनेक  states  आधार  state  आय  tax  on  AGI  साथ   निश्चित  deductions .
``  आलसी  Eye '' is  the  third single from Silversun Pickups ' debut  एल्बम  Carnavas  .
The band performed  the  song on  the  Late  दिखाएँ   साथ  David Letterman  ,  The Tonight Show with  jay  Leno , Later With  jools   हॉलैंड  , and Last Call  साथ  Carson Daly .
the  song is a playable  track  on Rock  बैंड  2 and  गिटार   नायिका  : World  दौरे  .
An  वैकल्पिक  version of the  सोंग  , with  a  length of 7:27  ,  was played  on   xmu  before  the  shorter version was  निभाई   on  FM  और   अन्य   xm  channels .
इस   संस्करण  was featured  on   उनके  demo CD ( which featured early versions of four tracks ) .
a  telephone prefix is the first  नियत  of  अंक   of  a  टेलीफोन  number ;  in  the North American Numbering Plan countries  (  country code 1 ) ,  it  is the first three  अंक  of  a  seven-digit phone number  .
In other countries both the  उपसर्ग  and  the   क्रमांक  may  have  different lengths  .
It  shows   जिससे   एक्सचेंज  the  बाकी  numbers refer  to   .
A  पूरा   टेलीफोन  number is  प्रायः  made up of country  कोड  ( required for international calls only ) , area code ( required for calls between  टेलीफोन  areas  )  , prefix , and subscriber number .
कुछ  places restrict certain prefixes to fax numbers or  कोशिका  phones only ;  in  other places such  समर्पित   prefixes   हैं  not  प्रयुक्त  .
As  टेलीफोन   प्रौद्योगिकी  advanced , the  precise  significance of the prefix  became  blurred  in  many  स्थान  ; 485  in  London  ,   uk  ,  थी   एकबार  the GULliver exchange , but  अभी  44207485xxxx is just considered  एक   of  many  क्रमांक   ब्लॉक  served by the CLKEN  kentish   कस्बा  exchange ; 4420770703xx  is  another .
Metformin (  bp   ,   सुनाया   ,  ;  originally   बेची  as Glucophage )  is  an oral  antidiabetic  drug in  the   biguanide  class  .
it   is  the  first-line  drug  of  choice  लिये  the  उपचार   of  type  2   मधुमेह  , in particular  ,   in  overweight and obese people  और  those with normal kidney function .
Its use in gestational diabetes  रै   महरूम   सीमित   by   सुरक्षा  concerns .
It is also used in the treatment  of   polycystic  ovary syndrome , and  रै  been  investigated   लिये  other  रोगों  where insulin resistance  may   be   an  important  फ़ैक्टर   .
metformin  works by  suppressing  glucose production  by   the  liver  .
metformin  is  the  only antidiabetic drug that has  महरूम  conclusively shown to prevent the  cardiovascular   जटिलताओं  of diabetes .
It  helps   reduce  LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels  ,   और  is not associated  साथ  weight gain .
,  metformin  is one of  तभी  two oral  antidiabetics   in  the World Health Organization Model  सूची  of  अनिवार्य  Medicines ( the  अन्य  being  glibenclamide  ) .
जब   विहित  appropriately  ,  metformin causes few  प्रतिकूल   प्रभाव  (  the   सबसे  common is gastrointestinal upset ) and is associated with a low  रिस्क   of   hypoglycemia  .
लैक्टिक  acidosis  (  a buildup  of  lactate in  the  blood ) can be a serious concern in overdose  और  when it is prescribed to people  साथ  contraindications ,  लकिन  otherwise , there is  no  significant risk .
पहला  synthesized  और  found to reduce blood  शुगर  in  the  1920s , metformin was forgotten for the  अगला   दो  decades as research shifted  to  insulin and  अन्य   antidiabetic   दवाएँ  .
Interest in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several reports that  it  could reduce  रक्त  sugar levels  in  people  ,   और   in  1957 , French physician Jean  sterne  published the first clinical trial of metformin as a  उपचार  for  मधुमेह   .
It  थी   introduced  to the United Kingdom in  1958   ,  Canada in  1972  ,  और   the  United States in 1995 .
metformin  is now believed to be the most widely  विहित   antidiabetic  drug in  the  world  ;  in the United States alone , more than 48  लाख   prescriptions  were filled  in  2010 for its generic formulations .
The  माउंट  Rushmore National Memorial is a  मूर्तिकला  carved  into   the  granite  फेस  of Mount  rushmore  near  keystone  , South  डकोटा   ,  in the United States .
Sculpted by  danish-american   gutzon   borglum  and his son  ,   lincoln  Borglum  ,   माउंट  Rushmore  सुविधाएँ   sculptures  of the  heads  of four United States  राष्ट्रपतियों  : George Washington , Thomas  जेफरसन   ,  Theodore  रूज़वेल्ट  and Abraham  lincoln  .
the   संपूर्ण  memorial  कवर  and is  ऊपर   समुद्र  level .
the  tallest mountain  in  the region is Harney Peak ( ) .
दक्षिण   डकोटा  historian  दोने  Robinson is credited with  conceiving   the  idea of carving the likenesses  of   प्रसिद्ध   लोगों  into the Black  पहाड़ियाँ  region of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in the  प्रदेश  .
रॉबिन्सन   's   आरंभिक   विचार  was to sculpt the Needles ; however  ,  Gutzon Borglum  अस्वीकृत  the Needles site because of the poor  विशेषता   of  the  ग्रेनाइट   और  strong opposition from environmentalists  और  Native American groups .
वे  settled  on  the  माउंट  Rushmore location ,  जिससे  also has the advantage of facing southeast for maximum sun  एक्सपोज़र  .
Robinson wanted it to feature  पश्चिमी   नायक  like  लुईस   और  Clark , Red  बादल  and Buffalo  विधेयक  Cody but  borglum   decided  the sculpture should have a  अधिक  national  फ़ोकस   ,  and chose the  चार  presidents whose likenesses would be carved into  the  mountain .
After securing  संघीय   funding  ,  निर्माण   on  the memorial began  in  1927  ,   और  the presidents  '   चेहरों  were completed between  1934  and  1939  .
Upon Gutzon  borglum  's death in March 1941 ,  उसके  son Lincoln Borglum  took  over  निर्माण  .
Although the initial concept called for each president to  be   चित्रित  from head to  कमर  ,  कमी  of funding  मजबूर  construction  to  end in late October 1941  .
the   u.S.  National Park Service took  कंट्रोल  of the memorial in  1933  , while  it  was  स्टिल  under construction ,  और  has managed  the   मेमोरियल  to the present day .
It  attracts  nearly  तीन  million people annually  .
Charvet dress shirt from the 1930s , Norsk Folkemuseum ,  ओस्लो  .
A shirt , dress  कमीज़  , button-front , button-front shirt ,  or   button-up  shirt  is  a  परिधान  with a  कॉलर  ,  a   full-length  opening at the front  इससे   the  collar  to   the  hem  ,  and  टाँक  with cuffs .
Shirts  हैं  predominantly  प्रयुक्त   by  men , since women usually wear  blouses  .
the   सामने  opening is fastened using  बटन  or studs , and the cuffs  बंद   साथ   बटन   or  cuff links .
Shirts are normally made  इससे  woven cloth , and are often accompanied by  a  jacket and  टाई  , for example with  a   सूट  or  formalwear  ,  लकिन   शर्ट  are also worn  अधिक  casually .
in  British English , dress  कमीज़  means specifically the more  औपचारिक  evening garment worn with black- or white- tie  ,  also  discussed  below .
कुछ   of   ये  formal shirts have  stiff  fronts and detachable collars attached with collar studs .
the  term `` button-down  ''   (  which refers  a  type  of  shirt  जिससे  has a collar fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes used  in  error to apply to all shirts (  साथ  or without buttoned  bas   छल्लों  ) , being used as a  पर्याय  for ``  button-up  ''  or  ``  button-front   ''  .
Administrative Professionals  दिन  ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is  an  unofficial secular holiday observed in several countries to recognize the work  of  secretaries  ,   प्रशासनिक  assistants , receptionists ,  और  other administrative support professionals  .
in  North America , it is  मनाये   on  the Wednesday of  the   पिछला   पूरा   सप्ताह  of  अप्रैल  (  अप्रैल  24  in  2013  )  .
In  फ़्रांस  it is celebrated on  the  third  गुरुवार   in  April  (   अप्रैल  18 in 2013 )  .
In  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  it is celebrated on  the   पहला   शुक्रवार  in May
Blasting can be:
अक्खड़   धमाकेदार
Blast furnace
चट्टान  blasting
निकोलस  Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594  –  19  नवम्बर   1665  ) was  the  leading painter of  the  classical French  बरॉक  style , although he spent most  of   उसके  working life  in   रोम  .
His  कार्य   is   characterized  by clarity ,  लॉजिक  ,  और  order , and favors line over color .
जबतक  the 20th century he remained a  प्रमुख  inspiration for such  classically  oriented artists as Jacques-Louis  दाउद  ,  jean-auguste-dominique   ingres   और   पॉल   cézanne   .
he   worked   in  Rome for a circle of leading collectors there and elsewhere , except  लिये  a short  काल  when Cardinal Richelieu  ordered  him back to  फ़्रांस  to serve as First Painter  to  the King .
Most of his works are history paintings of religious  or  mythological subjects that very  प्रायः  have a large landscape  तत्व  .
जैकी   कैथ  Whitley ( July 1 ,  1954stambler  , Irwin  ,   और  Grelun Landon ( 2000 ) . -  देश  Music  :  The Encyclopedia . - New York  :  St. Martin  's   दबायें  .  -  p.533 .  -  ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin  ,   रिचर्ड  (  2003  )  .   -   देश  Music  :  A Biographical  शब्दकोष  .  -  New York : Routledge -  p.427  . -  isbn  978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin ,  कोलिन  ( 1995 ) . - The  गिनीज   ज्ञानकोष  of Popular Music .  -   नई  York  :  Stockton Press - P.4462 .  -  ISBN  978-0-85112-662-3.—stanton  ,  स्कॉट  ( 2003 ) . - The Tombstone Tourist : Musicians  .  -  नई  York  :  Pocket Books . -  p.395   .  - ISBN  978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks  ,  जोकर  .  -  `` Singer  कैथ   whitley   's  Memory  जिंदा   through  Songs ,  प्रेम   in  Home Town  ''  . -  the  Kentucky  पोस्ट  .  -  September  25   ,   1991.—  '' Country Music Star Keith Whitley  मुर्दे  at 33 '' . - Lexington Herald-Leader . -  may  10 , 1989.——Hurst ,  जोकर  .  -  ``  whitley  's Last Days  ''   .  -  शिकागो   ट्रिब्यून  .  -  May 14 , 1989.— '' Alcohol Kills Country Singer  कैथ  Whitley '' .  -  United Press International . - ( c/o The San Francisco  वृत्तान्त  ) .  -  May  10  ,  1989   .   —   may  9 , 1989 ) , known professionally  as  Keith  whitley   ,   थी  an American  देश  music  सिंगर   .
Whitley  's   ब्रैड   करियर   in  mainstream country music lasted  इससे  1984 until his  मौत  in 1989 ,  लकिन  he continues to influence  an  entire generation of singers and songwriters .
He charted 19 singles  on  the  बिलबोर्ड   देश  charts , including five consecutive  क्रमांक  Ones : ``  do  n't Close  अपना  Eyes `` , ``  जब   तुम  Say  nothing  at All  ``  , `` I  'm  No  अजनबी  to the  बरसात  `` , `` I Wonder Do  तुम  Think of Me  ``  and `` It  ai  n't Nothin '  ``   (   the  last two posthumously ) .
Statute of Grand Duchy of  लिथुआनिया  , written in Polish
a  statute  is  a formal written enactment of a legislative  प्राधिकार  that governs a state , city  ,   or  county .
Typically , statutes command  or   prohibit  something ,  or  declare policy .
The  शब्द  is often used to  फर्क   विधि  made  by   विधान  bodies from case law  ,  decided by courts , and regulations issued  by   सरकारी   एजेंसियों   .
statutes  are sometimes referred to as legislation or ``  ब्लैक  letter law . ''
As  a  source  of   विधि   ,   statutes   हैं   माना  primary  प्राधिकार  ( as  opposed  to secondary authority ) .
Ideally all statutes must be in harmony with the fundamental  विधि   of  the land  (  constitutional  )   .
इस   शब्द  is used  in  contradistinction to the common  विधि  .
Statutes acquire  उनके  force from  the  time of  उनके   ड्योढ़ी   ,   however  unless otherwise provided .
Statutes are  of   अनेक  kinds ; namely , Public  or   निजी  .
Declaratory or remedial .
Temporary or perpetual .
A temporary statute  is  one which  is  limited in its duration  at   the  time of its enactment .
it  continues in force until  the   समय  of its limitation has expired , unless sooner repealed .
A  perpetual   statute  is one for the continuance of which  वहीँ  is no limited time  ,  although it  may  not  be  expressly declared  to  be  so  .
If  ,   however  ,  a   statute  which did  नहीं  itself contain any limitation is to  be  governed by  another  which is temporary only , the former will also be  अस्थाई  and dependent  upon  the existence of the latter .
पहले  a statute becomes law in some  देशों  ,  it  must be agreed upon by  the  highest  कार्यपालिका   in  the government , and finally published  as  part of a code  .
in   अनेक  countries ,  statutes  are organized  in   topical  arrangements ( or  ``   संहिताबद्ध  '' ) within publications called codes , such as  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   कोड  .
In many  राष्ट्र  statutory law is distinguished  इससे  and subordinate to  संवैधानिक  law  .
The external  iliac  arteries  हैं  two  प्रमुख  arteries which  bifurcate  off the common iliac  धमनियों  anterior to  the   sacroiliac   संयुक्त  of the pelvis .
They proceed  अग्रवर्ती  and  अवर   साथ  the medial  किनारा  of the psoas major muscles  .
वे  exit the pelvic girdle posterior and inferior to  the   वंक्षण  ligament about one third  laterally  from the insertion point of the  वंक्षण  ligament  on  the  जननांग  tubercle  at   जिससे   पाइंट  they are referred to  as  the  नैया   धमनियों  .
The external iliac artery  is  usually  the  artery used to attach the  renal  artery  to   the   प्राप्तकर्ता  of  a  kidney  प्रत्यारोपण  .
Steam is a digital  वितरण  , digital rights management , multiplayer  और   संचार  platform developed by Valve  निगम  .
It is used to  वितरित  games  और  related  मीडिया  online  ,  from small independent  डेवलपर   to   larger  software houses  ;   in  October 2012 , Valve expanded the service  to  include non-gaming software .
भाप   provides  the user with installation and automatic  प्रबन्धन   of  software across multiple  कंप्यूटर  , community  सुविधाएँ   ऐसे  as  मित्रों  lists and groups ,  बादल  saving , and  in-game   आवाज़   और  chat functionality .
The software provides a freely available  अनुप्रयोग  programming interface ,  steamworks   ,  that  डेवलपर  can take advantage  of   to   integrate  many  of  Steam 's functions within  उनके  software products ,  सहित  copy  सुरक्षा  , networking and matchmaking , in-game achievements and micro-transactions , and support for user-created  सामग्री  through  भाप  Workshop .
Though  initially  developed  लिये   उपयोग  on Microsoft Windows  ,  the client has expanded to  शामिल  OS X and Linux  संस्करण  ,  और   क्लाइंट  with limited functionality on the PlayStation 3 console and for both iOS and Android  मोबाईल  devices  .
in  addition to being a  सेंट्रल  hub for gaming software  ,   वाल्व  has  निर्मित   a   संस्करण  of  भाप  with  altered  functionality to  be   प्रयुक्त   in   स्कूलों  for educational  तन्त्र   ,   सहित  a  परिवर्धित  version of  पोर्टल  2  लिये  teaching science  और   नाजुक   सोच  lessons .
,  वहीँ  are  nearly   2000  games available through Steam  ,  and 54 million active user  खाते  .
As of January 2013 ,  भाप   रै  seen over 6.6 million concurrent players  .
Steam has an estimated 50–70  %  share of the digital distribution market for video  खेल   .
The  भाप   लोगो  is a stylised left-side fly-crank and rod  इससे  the Walschaerts  वाल्व  gear of  a   भाप  locomotive .
Jerry  लुईस  ( born March 16 , 1926 )  is  an American  हास्य  ,  कर्ता   ,  singer , film producer ,  screenwriter  and film director .
He is known  लिये   उसके  slapstick humor in  फिल्मी   ,   टेलीविज़न  , stage and radio  .
he   थी  originally  युग्म  up with Dean Martin in 1946 ,  forming  the famed comedy  टोली  of Martin and  लुईस  .
In  जोड  to the  duo   's  popular  nightclub  work ,  वे   स्ट्रक्चर   in   a  successful series of comedy  films   लिये   सर्वोपरि  Pictures  .
Lewis is  भी   ज्ञात   लिये  his charity fund-raising telethons and  स्थिति  as  नेशनल   अध्यक्ष   लिये  the  muscular   dystrophy   संघ   (  MDA  )  .
लुईस  has won several awards for  आजीवन  achievements from  the   अमरीकी  Comedy Awards  ,  Los Angeles  फिल्मी  Critics Association , and  वेनिस   फिल्मी   पर्व   ,  and he has  दो   सितारों  on the  हॉलीवुड  Walk  of   कीर्ति  .
in  2005  ,   he   प्राप्त  the Governors Award  of  the  अकादमी   of  Television  कला  &  sciences  Board of Governors  ,   जिससे   is  the highest Emmy Award  प्रस्तुत  .
On February  22  ,  2009   ,   the  Academy  of  Motion  चित्र  Arts and Sciences awarded  लुईस  the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award .
The  राइन  ( ; ; ) is a European river  कि  runs from the  स्विस  canton  of  Grisons in  the  southeastern Swiss Alps through Germany  और  eventually flows into  the   उत्तर  Sea  coast   in   the  Netherlands  और  is the twelfth longest river in Europe , at about , with  an   औसत  discharge  of   अधिक  than .
the  Rhine and the  डेन्यूब   formed  most of the northern inland frontier of the Roman Empire and , since  those   दिनों  , the  राइन  has been a vital and navigable waterway carrying trade and goods deep inland  .
it  has  भी  served as a defensive feature  और  has been the basis for regional  और   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   सीमायें  .
The  अनेक  castles and prehistoric  fortifications   साथ   the  Rhine testify  to   इसके  importance  as  a  जलमार्ग  .
River  ट्रैफ़िक   could  be stopped at  ये  locations  ,  usually  लिये   the   purpose  of collecting tolls , by  the  state that  नियंत्रित  that portion of  the  river  .
Sri ( Sinhala )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री ,  iast  ; Śrī ) ,  भी  transliterated as Sree or  shri  or Shree  is   a   शब्द  of Sanskrit  उत्पत्ति   ,  used in the Indian  उपमहाद्वीप  as polite form of address equivalent to the  अंग्रेज़ी   ``  Mr. ''  in   लिखा  and spoken  भाषा  ,  or  as a  शीर्षक  of veneration for deities ( usually translated as ``  पावन   ''   )  .
डिज़ाइन  of complex structures  जैसे  the International Space Station needs in-depth  समझना   of  Structural Analysis .
सिविल  engineering is  a  professional engineering discipline  कि  deals  साथ  the design ,  निर्माण  ,  और   मेंटेनेंस   of  the physical and naturally  निर्मित  environment , including works  जैसे  roads , bridges , canals  ,  dams , and buildings .
Civil engineering  is  the  oldest  engineering discipline after  सैन्य   अभियान्त्रिकी  , and it was defined to distinguish  non-military  engineering from military engineering  .
It is  traditionally  broken into  अनेक  sub-disciplines  सहित  environmental engineering , geotechnical engineering  ,  geophysics ,  भूगणित  , control engineering  ,  structural engineering  ,  biomechanics  ,  nanotechnology , transportation engineering , earth  विज्ञान  , atmospheric sciences ,  forensic   अभियान्त्रिकी   ,   नगरपालिका   or  urban  अभियान्त्रिकी  , water  संसाधन  engineering  ,  materials engineering  ,  coastal engineering ,  सर्वेक्षण  , and construction engineering .
Civil engineering  takes   प्लेस  on  सब  levels  :   in  the public  सेक्टर  from municipal through to national governments ,  और  in  the   निजी  sector from individual homeowners through to international  कंपनियाँ  .
Katherine Dunham in Tropical Revue
Katherine Dunham in Studio
Katherine Dunham  in  Tropical  पुनर्विलोकन   तीव्र  Review ,  मार्टिन  Beck  थिएटर
Katherine Dunham wearing dance costume
Katherine  dunham  in Cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( June 22  ,  1909  –   may  21  ,  2006 ) was an  अमरीकी   नर्तकी  ,  कोरियोग्राफर  , author ,  educator  , and  सोशल  activist  .
dunham   था   एक   of  the  सबसे   कामयाब  dance careers  in   अमरीकी  and European theater of the 20th  सदी  , and  निर्देशित  her  अपना  dance company  लिये  many years .
She has been  पुकारा  the ``  matriarch   और   महारानी  mother of  ब्लैक   नृत्य  '' .
During  उसके  heyday in the  1940s  and  1950s  , Dunham  थी  renowned  throughout  Europe  और   लैटिन  America and  थी  widely  लोकप्रिय   in  the United States  ,  where the Washington  पोस्ट   पुकारा  her `` dancer Katherine the  ग्रेट  '' .
For almost thirty years she maintained  the  Katherine Dunham Dance Company , the  तभी  self-supported  अमरीकी  black dance troupe  at  that time , and  over  her long career she choreographed more  than  ninety individual dances .
Dunham  थी  an innovator in African-American modern  नृत्य   as   खूब  as a leader in  the   फ़ील्ड  of  नृत्य   मानवशास्त्र  ,  or  ethnochoreology .
Sphagnum  is  a genus  of   between  1510  और  3500  प्रजाति  of mosses  ,   commonly  called  peat  moss  due   to  its prevalence  in  wet habitats where it contributes  to  the formation of peat bogs and mires .
Sphagnum accumulations can store water ,  चूंकि  both  जीना  and dead plants can  थाम  large quantities of  जल  inside their cells ;  पौधे  may hold from 16-26 times as much water  as  their dry weight depending on the  प्रजाति   .
The empty  कोशिकाएं  help retain  जल   in  drier conditions .
Hence , as sphagnum moss grows ,  it   can   धीरे  spread into drier  शर्तें   ,   forming   larger  peatlands  ,  both raised bogs and  कंबल  bogs .
ये  peat  accumulations  then  provide   आवास  for a wide array of peatland plants , including sedges and  ericaceous  shrubs , as well as orchids  और   मांसाहारी  plants .
sphagnum  and  the  peat formed from  it  do  नहीं  decay readily  क्युकी  of the phenolic compounds embedded in the moss  's  cell walls .
In  जोड   ,  bogs , like all wetlands , develop anaerobic soil conditions  ,  which  produces  slower anaerobic decay  बल्कि  than aerobic microbial action .
peat  moss can also acidify its surroundings  by  taking up cations  ,   ऐसे  as calcium and magnesium , and releasing  हाइड्रोजन  ions  .
Under the right conditions , peat can accumulate  to  a depth of many meters .
Different species of Sphagnum  have  different tolerance limits for flooding and  ph  , so any one peatland  may  have a number of different  sphagnum  species .
व्यक्तिगत   peat  moss  पौधे  consist  of  a main stem , with tightly arranged clusters of branch  fascicles  usually consisting  of  two  or   तीन  spreading  शाखाओं  and  दो   to  four hanging branches .
the  top of the plant ,  or  capitulum , has compact  क्लस्टर  of young branches .
Along the stem are  बिखरे  leaves of various shapes  ,  named  स्टेम  leaves ; the shape  varies   according  to  प्रजाति   .
The  पत्ते  consist of two  kinds  of cells ; small  ,   ग्रीन  ,  जीना   कोशिकाएं  ( chlorophyllose cells  )  ,  और   विशाल   ,  clear  ,  structural  ,  dead cells ( hyaline cells ) .
The latter have the large  water-holding   क्षमता  .
the  earliest version of the Network Card ,  जारी  manually  बल्कि   than   through  an APTIS  यंत्र  .
The first APTIS version of  the  Network Card .
This  थी  used from the start  of  the APTIS  era  in 1986/1987 until well  into  the 1990s , as  स्टॉक्स  had  to   be  used up despite the introduction of the  new-look  orange-banded  संस्करण  in 1991 .
the   परिचय   of   the   weekday  minimum fare  कंडीशन  in 2002  resulted   in  a minor change  :  the  रेड  ``  r  '' shows that this is the `` Revised '' version  of  the  railcard  .
This version is still in  उपयोग   as   of  2007 .
The Network Railcard is a  छूट  card introduced in  1986  by British Rail , upon  the   सृष्टि  of their Network SouthEast area  around   लंदन  ,  इंग्लैण्ड  .
The card is intended to encourage leisure travel by  रेल   by  offering discounts for adults and accompanying  children  on a wide range of  off-peak  fares .
The range  of  discounts available , and  the  price  of   the  card , have varied since  कि   समय   ,  but the card  रै   सदा  been  मान्य   लिये  a year  's   असीमित  use .
It can be purchased  by  any person aged 16 or over  इससे  any staffed National  रेल  station or  रेल  Appointed Travel Agent  ,  by completing  an   अनुप्रयोग  form  -  no photographic  पहचान  or  अन्य  documentation is needed to  ख़रीदे   or  use the card .
It is one  of  a number of concessionary  किराया  schemes  उपलब्धियाँ  on the British railway system .
The United Nations ( UN ; French :  संगठन   देस  Nations Unies  ,   onu  )  is  the world 's largest ,  foremost  ,  और  most  prominent  international organization .
The stated aims of the United  राष्ट्र  include promoting  और  facilitating cooperation in international  विधि  , international security , economic development , social progress , human rights ,  सिविल  rights  ,  civil liberties , political freedoms  ,   लोकतंत्र  ,  और   the  achievement of lasting world peace  .
the   un  was  संस्थापित  in 1945  बाद   संसार  War II to replace  the   लीग  of Nations , to stop  युद्धों  between  देशों  , and to provide a platform  लिये   संवाद  .
It contains  अनेक   subsidiary  organizations  to  carry out its  मिशन  .
at  its founding , the UN had 51 member  राज्य   ;  as of  2011   ,   वहीँ  are 193 .
From  इसके  offices  around  the world ,  the  UN and its specialized agencies decide  on   सत्य  and administrative  मुद्दे   in   नियमित   बैठक   आयोजित  throughout the  साल  .
The organization has  छह  principal organs : the General  सभा  ( the main deliberative  सभा  )  ;  the  सुरक्षा  Council (  लिये  deciding certain resolutions  लिये  peace and  सुरक्षा  ) ;  the   आर्थिक  and Social Council  (  for assisting  in   promoting  international economic and social  सहयोग  and development )  ;   the  Secretariat  (  for  providing  studies  ,   सूचना   ,  and facilities  needed   by   the   un  )  ;  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   अदालत   of  Justice ( the  प्राथमिक   न्यायिक   अंग   )  ; and  the  United Nations Trusteeship  परिषद   (  which is currently inactive ) .
Other prominent UN  प्रणाली   एजेंसियों  include  the  World Health  संगठन  (  जो  ) ,  the  World Food  कार्यक्रम   (   wfp  ) and United Nations Children 's  निधि  ( UNICEF  )  .
The UN 's  सबसे   prominent  position is that of  the  office  of  Secretary-General which has been held by Ban Ki-moon of South Korea  चूंकि  2007 .
The United Nations  मुख्यालय   resides   in   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  territory in New York  नगर  ,  साथ   further   प्रमुख   कार्यालयों  at Geneva , Nairobi  ,  and Vienna  .
the  organization  is  financed from assessed and voluntary contributions  इससे  its  सदस्य   राज्य  , and has six official languages :  अरबी  ,  चाइनीज   ,  English ,  फ्रेंच   ,  Russian , and  स्पेनी   .
South Beach ,  भी   nicknamed   sobe   ,  is  a   पड़ोस  in the city of Miami Beach , Florida , United States  ,  located due east  of  Miami city  उचित  between Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean  .
The  क्षेत्रफल  encompasses  सब  of the barrier islands of Miami Beach south of Indian  क्रीक   .
This area was the first section of Miami  बीच  to be developed ,  starting   in  the 1910s  ,  thanks to the development efforts of  कार्ल  G.  फिशर  ,  the  Lummus Brothers ,  और   जॉन  S.  कॉलिन्स  , the latter whose construction of  the   कॉलिन्स  Bridge provided  the  first vital land link  between  mainland Miami and the beaches .
The area  रै  gone through numerous artificial  और   प्राकृतिक  changes  over  the  सालो  , including  a   booming  regional economy , increased tourism  ,  and the 1926 hurricane  ,  which  नष्ट  much  of   the  area .
As  of   2010   ,  about 39,186 residents  सजीव  in  दक्षिण  Beach .
The  संयुक्त  States presidential election  of  1960  थी  the 44th  quadrennial  presidential election , held  on  Tuesday ,  नवम्बर  8 ,  1960  .
The Republican Party nominated  लाज़िम   vice-president  Richard  निक्सन   ,   जबकि  the Democratic Party  मनोनीत   जॉन  F. Kennedy  ,   सीनेटर  from Massachusetts .
The incumbent President  ,  Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower  ,   थी  not  योग्य  for re-election after serving  the   अधिकतम  two terms allowed by the  twenty-second  Amendment  .
Kennedy  थी  elected with a lead of  112,827  votes , or 0.17 % of the popular vote , giving  उसे  a victory of 303 to 219 in  the  Electoral College , the  closest  since 1916  .
इस  was  the  first election  in   जिससे  all fifty of the  वर्तमान  United  राज्य  participated .
A  क्रमांक   of  factors  बताइये  why the election was  so  close  .
Kennedy gained since  वहीँ   थी  an  आर्थिक  recession which  ठेस  the incumbent Republican ,  और  he had the  लाभ   of   17   लाख  more  पंजीकृत   डेमोक्रेट   than   republicans  .
Furthermore , the new votes that  कैनेडी  gained  among  Catholics  लगभग   neutralized  the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants  .
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon  's   .
in  the end , Nixon  's   जोर  on his experience carried little weight , and he wasted energy  by   campaigning  in  सब  50  राज्य   बजाय  of  concentrating   on   the  swing  राज्य   .
Kennedy  प्रयुक्त  his large , well-funded campaign organization to  जीत  the nomination ,  सुरक्षित  endorsements  ,  and , with the  सहायता  of  the  last of the  big-city   bosses   ,   to  get out  the  vote in  the  big cities .
He relied on running mate Lyndon  B.   जॉनसन  to hold the  दक्षिण  and used television effectively .
इस  election is notable  as  being the first time in U.S. history that  दो   बैठे   u.s  . Senators  (   कैनेडी   और  Johnson ) were elected  as  president  और  vice-president  ,  a phenomenon  कि  has  महरूम  repeated  एकबार   ,  by Barack Obama and Joe  बिडेन   in  2008  (  in both  मामले   ,  the president  थी   the  younger  ,   अधिक  junior senator ) .
a  poster for  a  c.  1884  American production  of  Macbeth  ,  starring Thomas W.  keene  .
Depicted , counter  clockwise  from top-left , are : Macbeth and Banquo meet the witches  ;  just  बाद  the murder of Duncan ;  banquo   's  ghost ; Macbeth duels Macduff ;  और  Macbeth .
मैकबेथ  is a play written  by  William Shakespeare .
It  is  considered one of his darkest and most powerful  tragedies  .
Set  in  Scotland  ,  the  खेल  dramatizes  the  corroding psychological and  राजनैतिक   प्रभाव  produced when  इसके  protagonist , the  स्कॉटिश   रब   मैकबेथ  ,  chooses  evil as the  रास्ता  to fulfill his ambition for power  .
He  commits  regicide to become king and  तब  furthers his moral descent with  a  reign of murderous terror to  रहो  in  शक्ति  ,  आखिरकार  plunging the country into civil  युद्ध  .
In  the  end , he loses everything that gives meaning and purpose  to  his  जीवन  before losing  उसके  life  itself  .
the   खेल  is believed to  have  been written  between  1603 and 1607  ,  and is most commonly dated 1606  .
The earliest  खाता  of a performance  of  what was probably Shakespeare 's play is April 1611 ,  जब  Simon Forman recorded seeing such a play at the  ग्लोब  Theatre .
It was first published  in  the Folio  of  1623 ,  संभवतः  from a prompt book .
it  was  सबसे  likely written during the reign of James I ,  जो   था  been James VI of  स्कॉटलैंड  before he  succeeded   to  the English throne in 1603 .
James  थी  a patron  of  Shakespeare’s  एक्टिंग  company , and of all the plays Shakespeare wrote during  james’s  reign ,  मैकबेथ  most clearly  reflects   the  playwright’s relationship with the sovereign  .
मैकबेथ   is   shakespeare’s  shortest tragedy  ,  and tells the story  of  a  वीर  Scottish general named  मैकबेथ  who  receives  a prophecy  इससे  a trio  of  witches that one  दिन  he will  become   किंग   of  Scotland .
खपत   by  ambition and spurred to action by his wife , Macbeth murders  किंग   डंकन  and takes  the  throne  लिये  himself .
His reign is racked with  guilt   और   paranoia  ,  और  he soon  becomes  a tyrannical ruler  as  he is  मजबूर  to commit more and more murders  to  protect himself from enmity and suspicion  .
the  bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth and Lady Macbeth into realms of  arrogance   ,   दीवानगी  , and death .
Shakespeare 's source  लिये  the tragedy is  the  account of King  मैकबेथ  of Scotland , Macduff , and Duncan in Holinshed 's Chronicles ( 1587 )  ,  a history of England  ,  Scotland and Ireland  परिचित  to  शेक्सपियर   और  his  contemporaries   ,  although the events in  the  play differ extensively from  the   इतिहास  of the real Macbeth  .
In the  बैकस्टेज   संसार  of theatre , some believe  कि  the play is cursed , and will not mention  इसके  title  aloud  ,  referring  to it  बजाय   as   ``   the  Scottish play `` .
Over  the  course of many centuries  ,   the  play has  आकर्षित  some of the  सबसे  renowned actors to the roles  of  Macbeth and  महिला  Macbeth  .
It has  महरूम  adapted to film , television  ,  opera  ,  novels , comic books , and  अन्य  media .
The  मिल्टन   hershey  School is a private philanthropic  (  pre-K through  12  )  बोर्डिंग  school  in  Hershey ,  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
Originally named  the  Hershey Industrial  स्कूल  ,  the   संस्था   थी  founded  और  funded  by   चॉकलेट   उद्योगपति   मिल्टन  Snavely Hershey  और  his wife  ,  Catherine  स्वीनी  Hershey .
The school was originally  स्थापित  for impoverished ,  स्वस्थ  , Caucasian  ,  male orphans , while  आज  it serves students of various backgrounds  .
The  मिल्टन  Hershey  स्कूल   विश्वास  ,  जिससे  funds  the  school , owns controlling interest in The  hershey   कम्पनी  and owns the Hershey Entertainment  और  Resorts Company  (  HERCO )  जिससे  oversees  अनेक  of  the  area  होटल  along with a theme  पार्क  called  hersheypark   .
With  over   छह  billion  डॉलर  in  एसेट   ,  the Milton Hershey School is one  of  the wealthiest schools in the world .
the  school  is  overseen by a Board of  प्रबंधक  .
the  school  फिलहाल   serves  1,818  विद्यार्थी  ,  और  plans  to   grow   to  2,100 students by 2013  .
A member  of  CORE  :  Coalition for Residential Education ,  it  is the largest residential education program in the  us  .
Epub may refer to:
epub  , a free and open e-book standard
Electronic article , articles  in  scholarly journals or magazines that can be  पहुँचा  via electronic transmission
the  Controlled  substances  Act ( CSA ) was  enacted  into  विधि   by   the  Congress of  the  United States as Title II of the  व्यापक  Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act  of   1970  .
The CSA is  the   संघीय   u.S.  drug policy under which  the  manufacture  ,  importation  ,  possession  ,   उपयोग  and distribution  of  certain substances is regulated .
The  अधिनियम   भी   परोसा  as the national  implementing   विधान  for  the  Single  सम्मेलन   on  Narcotic  दवाएँ   .
The legislation created five  schedules   (  classifications )  ,   साथ  varying qualifications for  a  substance to be included  in  each .
Two  संघीय  agencies  ,  the Drug  प्रवर्तन  Administration and the  खाना   और  Drug  प्रशासन  , determine which  substances  are added to or removed  इससे  the  विभिन्न  schedules , though the  statute  passed by Congress  निर्मित  the initial listing , and Congress has sometimes  अनुसूचित  other substances through legislation  ऐसे  as  the  Hillory J.  farias  and  सामन्था   reid  Date-Rape Prevention Act  of  2000  ,  which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification  निर्णय  are required to be made on criteria including potential for  गाली  ( an  अपरिभाषित   पद  ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United  राज्य   ,  and international treaties .
second-language   अधिग्रहण   or  second-language learning is  the   प्रक्रम   by  which people  सीख  a  दूसरी  language .
Second-language  अधिग्रहण  ( often  abbreviated  to  sla  )  भी   refers   to  the scientific discipline devoted to studying  कि   प्रक्रम  .
दूसरी   भाषा  refers to any language learned in addition  to  a person  's  first  भाषा  ;  हालांकि  the concept is named second-language acquisition , it can also incorporate the learning of third  ,  fourth , or subsequent languages .
Second-language acquisition refers to what learners do ; it does not refer to practices  in  language teaching  .
The academic  अनुशासन   of  second-language  अधिग्रहण  is a subdiscipline of applied linguistics .
It is  broad-based  and relatively new .
As well as the various branches of  भाषाविज्ञान  , second-language acquisition  is  also closely related to psychology  ,  cognitive  मनोविज्ञान  , and education .
to  separate  the   अकादमिक  discipline from the learning process itself , the terms  second-language  acquisition research , second-language studies  ,  and second-language acquisition studies  हैं  also used  .
SLA research began  as  an interdisciplinary field  ,  and  क्युकी  of this  it  is difficult  to   पहचानो  a precise  starting   तिथि  .
However , it does appear  to  have  विकसित  a  ग्रेट   सौदे  since the mid-1960s .
the  term acquisition was originally used  to  emphasize the subconscious  प्रकृति   of  the learning  प्रक्रम  , but  in  recent years learning  और  acquisition  have   become  largely synonymous  .
Second-language acquisition can  चरितार्थ  heritage language learning ,  लकिन  it  करता   नहीं  usually  चरितार्थ  bilingualism  .
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism  as  being the  समाप्त   परिणाम  of learning a language  ,  not  the  process itself  ,  and see  the  term as referring  to  native-like fluency .
Writers in fields  ऐसे  as  शिक्षा  and psychology ,  however   ,  often use bilingualism loosely to refer to  सब  forms of  बहुभाषिकता   .
Second-language acquisition is also not  to   be   contrasted  with the acquisition of a foreign language  ;   बल्कि  ,  the  learning of second languages and the learning of foreign languages  involve   the   वही   आधारभूत  processes  in  different situations..
वहीँ  has been  much  debate  परिचय  exactly how language is learned , and  अनेक  issues  हैं  still unresolved .
वहीँ  are many  theories  of  second-language  acquisition , but none  हैं  accepted as a complete explanation by all SLA researchers .
due   to  the interdisciplinary nature  of   the  field  of  second-language  अधिग्रहण   ,  this  is  not expected  to  happen in the  foreseeable   भविष्य  .
Forbes list of billionaires is an  सालाना  ranking of the world 's wealthiest people  ,  compiled and published  by  Forbes ,  an  American national  कारोबार  magazine .
the  total net  लायक  of each individual on the list is  अनुमानित  ,  in  United States  डॉलर   ,   आधारित  on their assets  और  accounting for  कर्ज़  .
The list only represents each  व्यक्ति   's  valuation on a  सिंगल   दिन  , due  to  daily  fluctuations  among exchange rates and stock  valuations  .
the   संयुक्त  States Secret Service is a U.S.  संघीय   विधि   प्रवर्तन  agency  कि  is  भाग  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  Department  of  Homeland Security .
The sworn members  हैं  divided among the Special Agents and the Uniformed Division  .
Until March 1 ,  2003  ,  the  Service was part of the United States Department of the Treasury .
The U.S. Secret Service has two  पृथक  areas of responsibility:
Financial  अपराधों   ,   covering  missions such as  रोकथाम  and investigation  of  counterfeiting of  u.S.  currency  और  U.S. treasury  प्रतिभूति  ,  और  investigation  of   प्रमुख  fraud .
Protection  ,  which entails ensuring the safety of current  और  former national leaders  और   उनके  families , such  as  the  अध्यक्ष  , past presidents ,  वाइस  presidents , presidential candidates , visiting heads of state  ,  and foreign embassies ( per  an  agreement with the  u.S.  State  विभाग   's  Bureau  of   राजनयिक  Security ( DS ) Office  of  Foreign Missions ( OFM  )  , etc . )
The  रहस्य  Service 's  आरंभिक  responsibility was  to  investigate counterfeiting of  u.S.  currency , which was rampant  following  the  u.S.  Civil War  .
The agency then  विकसित  into  the  United States '  पहला  domestic intelligence and counterintelligence agency .
Many of the  एजेंसी  's missions were later taken over by  subsequent  agencies such as the  संघीय   ब्यूरो   of  Investigation  (  FBI ) , Bureau of  दारू  , Tobacco , Firearms  और  Explosives (  atf   )   ,  Immigration and Customs Enforcement (  बर्फ  )  ,  and Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) .
`` Me  और  Bobby McGee ''  is  a song written by Kris Kristofferson  और  Fred Foster , originally performed by Roger Miller  .
अन्य  performed  the  song later , including Kristofferson himself , and  janis  Joplin  जो  topped the  u.S.  singles chart with the song in 1971  बाद  her  मौत  ,  बनाना   the   सोंग   the  second  posthumous   number-one  single in U.S. chart history  बाद   ``  ( Sittin ' On ) The  डॉक   of   the  Bay  ``  by  ओटिस  Redding  .
फ्रैंकलिन  Delano Roosevelt ( or  ;  January 30 , 1882 – April  12   ,  1945  )  ,  भी  known by his initials , FDR , was the 32nd President of the United States (  1933–1945   )   और   a   सेंट्रल   फिगर   in  world events during  the  mid-20th century  ,  leading the United States during  a  time  of  worldwide economic  अवसाद  and  कुल   युद्ध  .
a  dominant leader of the Democratic Party and  the  only American president elected to  अधिक  than two  शर्तें   ,  he  निर्मित  a New  सौदे  Coalition  कि  realigned American politics  बाद  1932  ,  as his domestic policies defined  अमरीकी  liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century  .
साथ  the  bouncy  popular song  ``  Happy Days Are Here Again  ``   as   उसके  campaign theme , FDR defeated  लाज़िम  Republican Herbert Hoover in November  1932   ,  at the depth  of   the  Great Depression .
सक्रिय  by his personal victory over  पोलियो  , FDR 's unfailing optimism and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He  worked   closely  with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and  सोवियत  General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies against  जर्मनी  and Japan in  संसार  War  ii   ,   और   restoring  prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred  दिनों  in  दफ्तर  , which  began   कूच  4 , 1933  ,   रूज़वेल्ट  spearheaded major  विधान   और   जारी  a profusion of executive orders  कि  instituted the New Deal —a variety of  कार्यक्रम  designed to produce relief  (  government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth  )  , and reform  (  through  विनियमन   of  Wall Street , banks and  परिवहन  ) .
The economy improved  rapidly   इससे  1933 to  1937  , but then relapsed into a  गहन  recession  .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in  1937  prevented his packing the Supreme  अदालत  or  गुजर  any considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the  राहत  programs  जब  unemployment  diminished   दौरान  World War II .
Most of the  regulations   on   कारोबार   यहूद  ended about  1975–85  ,  मगर  for the  विनियमन  of  वॉल  Street by the Securities and Exchange  आयोग  , which still exists .
Along with  अनेक  smaller  कार्यक्रम   ,  major surviving programs  शामिल  the Federal  जमा  Insurance Corporation ,  जिससे  was  निर्मित  in 1933 , and Social Security , which  कॉंग्रेस  passed  in  1935  .
As World  युद्ध   ii   loomed  after 1938 ,  साथ  the  जापानी   आक्रमण   of   चीन  and the  आक्रामकता  of Nazi Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial  support  to China and Great Britain ,  जबकि  remaining officially neutral .
His  लक्ष्य   थी   to  make America  the  `` Arsenal  of  Democracy  ``  which would supply munitions to the  allies  .
In March  1941  , Roosevelt  ,  with Congressional approval  ,  provided Lend-Lease  सहायता   to  the countries fighting against Nazi  जर्मनी  with  ब्रिटेन   .
With very  दमदार   नेशनल  support , he made war on  जापानी  and Germany after the Japanese attack  on  Pearl Harbor on December  7   ,  1941 , calling it a ``  तिथि   जिससे   होगा  live in  infamy  `` .
he  supervised  the   mobilization  of the U.S.  अर्थव्यवस्था  to support the Allied  युद्ध   प्रयत्न  .
As  an  active military leader  ,   रूज़वेल्ट  implemented  an  overall war  रणनीति  on  दो   fronts  that  ended  in the defeat of the Axis  शक्तियां  and the development of  the  world  's  first atom bomb .
In  1942  Roosevelt ordered the  internment   of  100,000 Japanese American civilians .
Unemployment dropped to  2  % ,  राहत  programs largely ended , and the  औद्योगिक   अर्थव्यवस्था  grew rapidly to new heights as  लाखो  of people moved  to  new  कार्य  in  युद्ध   centers  ,  और  16 million men and 300,000  महिलाओं  were  drafted  or volunteered for  सैन्य  service .
Roosevelt  वर्चस्व   the   अमरीकी   राजनैतिक  scene not only during  the  twelve  सालो  of  उसके  presidency , but also for decades afterward  .
He orchestrated  the  realignment of voters that created  the   पांचवां  Party System  .
fdr  's New Deal  गठबन्धन   संयुक्त  labor  संघ  , big city machines , white  ethnics   ,   अफ़्रीकी  Americans and rural  श्वेत   southerners   .
He  भी  influenced  the   बाद  creation of the  संयुक्त  Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is  consistently  rated by  विद्वानों  as  एक   of  the top  तीन   u.S.  Presidents  ,  along with  अब्राहम   lincoln  and  जार्ज  Washington  .
A liberal Democrat  ,  Roosevelt defined his ideological position  as  `` a little left of center . ''
मारा  Salvatrucha  (  commonly  abbreviated  as MS , Mara , and MS-13 ) is  a  transnational criminal  गिरोह  that originated  in  Los Angeles and has spread  to  other parts  of  the United States ,  कनाडा  , Mexico , and  सेंट्रल   अमेरिका  .
the  majority  of  the gang is ethnically composed of Central Americans and  क्रियाशील  in urban and suburban areas  .
In the  u.S.  , the MS-13 has an especially  भारी  presence  in  Los Angeles County and the San Francisco Bay Area in Northern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ; the Washington  ,   d.C.   महानगर  areas of  फेयरफैक्स  County , Virginia  ,   मोंटगोमरी   काउंटी  , Maryland , and Prince George 's County , Maryland  ;  Long  द्वीप  , New  यॉर्क  ;  the  Boston , Massachusetts area ; Charlotte  ,   उत्तर   कैरोलिना  ; and Houston , Texas .
There  is   भी  a presence of  ms-13   in   टोरंटो  , Ontario  ,  Canada  .
सदस्यों  of  ms  distinguish  themselves  by tattoos covering  the  body and also often the  फेस  , as well as  the   उपयोग   of   उनके   अपना  sign language .
They are notorious for their  उपयोग  of  हिंसा   और  a subcultural moral  कोड  that predominantly consists  of   merciless   बदला  and cruel retributions .
This  क्रूरता   of  the distinguished members of  the  `` Maras  ''   or  ``  mareros   ''  earned  उन्हें  a path to be  recruited  by the Sinaloa Cartel battling against Los Zetas in  an  ongoing  ड्रग   युद्ध  south of the United States border .
Their  wide-ranging   क्रियाएँ   have  drawn the attention of  the   एफबीआई  and Immigration and Customs  प्रवर्तन  , who have  initiated   wide-scale  raids against  ज्ञात  and  suspected   गिरोह  members – netting hundreds of  रखवाले  across  the  country  .
Bones  is  an American crime  comedy-drama  television series that  premiered  on  the   फॉक्स  network in the United States on  सितंबर   13  , 2005  .
the  show is based on forensic anthropology and  forensic  archaeology ,  साथ   प्रत्येक  episode  focusing  on  an  FBI case file concerning the mystery  पीछे   इंसान  remains brought by FBI Special  एजेंट  Seeley Booth (  दाउद  Boreanaz )  to  the forensic  anthropologist   dr.   temperance   ``  Bones '' Brennan ( Emily Deschanel )  .
the   बाकी  of  the  main cast includes  michaela  Conlin  ,  T. J. Thyne , Eric  millegan  , Tamara Taylor ,  जोनाथन  Adams , and  जॉन  Francis Daley .
निर्मित  by Hart Hanson  ,  the series is very  loosely  based  on   the  life  और  writings  of   उपन्यासकार  and forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs ,  जो  also produces the  दिखाएँ  .
Its  शीर्षक  character , Temperance Brennan , is  नामित   बाद  the protagonist of  reichs   '   अपराधों   अनोखा   श्रेणी  .
Conversely  ,  Dr. Brennan writes successful mystery novels based  around   a  fictional ( in the Bones  ब्रह्मांड  )  forensic   anthropologist   नामित  Kathy Reichs  .
हड्डियों   is  a joint production  by   जोसेफसन  Entertainment , Far  फ़ील्ड   प्रोडक्शन्स  and  20th  Century  फॉक्स  Television  .
The series has completed airing  इसके  eighth season and has been renewed  लिये  a  नवीं  season .
Super  कटोरी  XXV was an American  फ़ुटबॉल  game between the American Football Conference  (  AFC ) champion Buffalo  बिल्स  and the National  फ़ुटबॉल  Conference  (  NFC  )  champion New York Giants to decide  the  National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the  1990   ऋतु   .
The Giants  पराजित   the   बिल्स   by  the score of 20–19  ,  winning their second ever  सुपर   कटोरी  .
it  is the only  सुपर   कटोरी  decided by one point .
The game  थी  held  at   tampa  Stadium in Tampa ,  फ्लोरिडा  ,  on  January 27 , 1991 , during the  ऊँचाई   of  the Gulf  युद्ध  .
It was  यूँ  played  अंतर्गत  much patriotic  fervor  .
the  proceedings  शामिल  a rousing rendition  of   ``  The Star-Spangled  ध्वज   ``  by Whitney  ह्यूस्टन  during  the   pregame  ceremonies  .
the   बिल्स  and their explosive no-huddle offense were making  उनके  first Super  कटोरी  appearance after finishing  the  regular  ऋतु   साथ  a 13-3 record , and leading the  लीग  in  कुल  points scored with  428   .
In advancing to  उनके  second Super Bowl , the Giants also posted a 13-3  नियमित  season record ,  लकिन   साथ  a ball-control offense and  a  defense that  अनुमत  a league low 211  अंक  .
the  game is  बेहतरीन  remembered for Bills  placekicker  Scott Norwood  's  last-second field goal  attempt  which went wide  सही  of the uprights , leading to  a  Giants  विजय  ,  और  starting  a   four-game  losing streak in the Super Bowl for  the  Bills .
The  दिग्गज  set  a  Super Bowl  रिकार्ड  holding possession of the  बॉल  for  40  minutes and 33 seconds .
New  यॉर्क  also  overcame   a   12-3   second-quarter  deficit  ,  and made a  75-yard  touchdown drive that consumed a Super Bowl record 9:29 off the clock .
Giants running back Ottis Anderson ,  जो   carried   the   बॉल  21 times for  102  yards and one touchdown , was named  सुपर   कटोरी  MVP .
He  थी  the first  awardee  to receive the  newly   नामित  ``  पीट   rozelle  Trophy ''  (   नामित  for the former commissioner  )   .
Anderson also  अंकित  one reception  लिये   सात  yards .
Malcolm X  (  ;  may  19 , 1925February 21  ,  1965 )  ,  born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz (  )   ,  was an African-American  मुस्लिम   मंत्री  and human  अधिकारों  activist  .
to  his admirers , he was a courageous  एडवोकेट   लिये  the rights of  अश्वेतों  ,  a  man who indicted  श्वेत   अमेरिका   in  the harshest  शर्तें  for  इसके  crimes against black Americans .
detractors  accused him of preaching racism  ,   ब्लैक  supremacy , and  हिंसा  .
he   रै  been  पुकारा   एक   of  the  महानतम   और   सबसे  influential African Americans in history  .
मैल्कम  X  's   पिता   died—killed   by   श्वेत   supremacists   ,   it  was rumored—when  he  was young , and at least one of his  uncles  was lynched  .
When  he   थी   13  , his mother  थी  placed in  a   दिमागी   हॉस्पिटल  , and he was placed  in   a  series of foster homes .
In 1946 , at age  20   ,  he went to prison for breaking and entering .
In prison ,  मैल्कम  X  became  a member  of  the  स्वदेश  of Islam ;  बाद   उसके  parole in 1952 , he quickly  रोज़  to become one  of  its leaders .
For a dozen  सालो  ,  मैल्कम  X  थी  the  पब्लिक   फेस   of   the   विवादास्पद   समूह  , but disillusionment with Nation of  islam  head Elijah Muhammad  led  him to leave the Nation  in  March  1964  .
After a period of travel  in  Africa and  the   मध्य  East , he returned to  the  United States , where he  संस्थापित  Muslim  मस्जिदे  , Inc. and  the  Organization of  afro-american  Unity  .
in  February  1965  , less  than  a year  बाद  leaving the Nation  of   islam  , he was  assassinated  by three members  of   the   समूह  .
मैल्कम  X  's  expressed beliefs changed substantially over time .
As a  प्रवक्ता   लिये   the  Nation  of  Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and  श्वेत  Americans —in  कंट्रास्ट   to   the  civil rights movement 's  जोर  on  संयोजन  .
After breaking with the Nation of  islam   in  1964—saying  of   उसके  association with  it   ,  `` I did many things as a  [  Black ] Muslim that I 'm  sorry  for now .
I was a  प्रेत  then ... pointed in a certain  दिशा  and told to march '' —and  बनने   a  Sunni Muslim , he  disavowed   जातिवाद   और  expressed willingness to work  साथ  civil rights leaders ,  he  continued  to  emphasize Pan-Africanism  ,  black self-determination  ,   और  self-defense .
The third  ऋतु  of 90210 ,  an  American  टेलीविज़न   श्रेणी  , premiered on Monday September 13  ,  2010 .
The CW officially renewed  the   दिखाएँ  for a third season  on  February 16  ,   2010  .
With  the  reveal of the networks fall 2010 schedule  ,  they announced  उनके  decision to move 90210 to Monday nights at  8:00  pm , as  a  lead-in to Gossip Girl .
It premiered  on   सितंबर  13 ,  2010  and was met with  generally  positive  समीक्षाएँ   इससे   आलोचकों   .
The season  चयन  up at the end  of   गर्मियाँ   और  focuses on  the   विद्यार्थी  senior year  of   ऊँची   स्कूल  .
it   फ़ॉलो  Adrianna 's rise to fame , a new  संबंध  between Silver and Navid  और  a  उलझन  Teddy who  decides  to reveal  to  his family and friends  he  is gay  .
it  also deals with the aftermath of Naomi  क्लार्क  's  उत्पीड़न  .
नियमित  cast members for the  ऋतु   शामिल  Shenae Grimes  ,   ट्रिस्टन   wilds   ,  AnnaLynne McCord ,  रयान  Eggold ,  जेसिका  Stroup , Michael  steger   ,   जेसिका  Lowndes  ,   मैट  Lanter  ,  Gillian Zinser  ,   ट्रेवर   डोनोवन   और   लोरी  Loughlin .
रेबेका  Sinclair continued  उसके   भूमिका   as  executive producer for the  ऋतु  .
the   ऋतु  premiered  to  1.96 million viewers and  a  0.9 rating in the  वयस्कों  18–49 demographic  .
Christmas-themed episode  ``  Holiday  दीवानगी   ''  , hit season highs  in  all key  demos  with  2.1  in The CW 's target demo of women  18–34  , a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in  वयस्कों  18–49 .
It was  भी  the most watched episode in over a  साल  with  2.2  million viewers tuning in .
the  season finale aired on May  16  ,  2011  .
the   ऋतु   averaged  1.75 million live  दर्शक  and a 0.9 adults  18–49  rating .
It was released on  dvd  in  the  United States  on  August 30 , 2011 .
Elizabeth II  (   एलिज़ाबेथ  Alexandra  मरियम   ;   born   21   अप्रैल   1926   )  is  the   संवैधानिक  monarch of  16   sovereign   राज्य  , known as the Commonwealth realms  ,   और  their  territories   और  dependencies , and head of the  54-member  Commonwealth of  राष्ट्र  .
She  is  Supreme Governor  of  the Church  of  England  और   ,  in  कुछ  of  उसके  realms  ,  carries the  शीर्षक  of  defender   of  the Faith as part of her full title .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth  became  Head of the Commonwealth and  महारानी   regnant  of  सात  independent Commonwealth countries  :   the   संयुक्त  Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , Pakistan and Ceylon  .
From 1956  to   1992  ,  the  number  of   उसके  realms varied as territories gained  स्वतंत्रता  and some  realms  became  republics  .
at  present , in  जोड  to  the   पहला   चार   aforementioned  countries ,  एलिज़ाबेथ  is Queen of Jamaica , Barbados , the Bahamas ,  हरा   ,  Papua New Guinea , the Solomon  आइलैंड्स   ,  Tuvalu , Saint  लूसिया   ,   संत  Vincent and the  grenadines   ,  Belize , Antigua  और  Barbuda and  संत  Kitts and Nevis .
उसके  reign of years is  फिलहाल   the  second longest for a British monarch  ;  only  महारानी  Victoria has reigned longer  at  over  63  years .
एलिज़ाबेथ  was born in London and educated privately  at   घर  .
उसके  father acceded  to   the  throne as George VI in 1936 on  the  abdication of his brother  एडवर्ड  VIII , from  जिससे  time  वो  was the  वारिस   presumptive  .
She  began  to undertake public duties during  the  Second World War , in which she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service  .
In  1947  , she married Prince Philip ,  ड्यूक  of  एडिनबर्ग  , with whom  वो  has four  children  :  चार्ल्स   ,  Anne  ,  Andrew  ,   और  Edward  .
उसके  coronation service took  प्लेस   in   1953   और  was the  पहला  to be televised  .
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings  शामिल  a state visit to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits  to  and from the Pope .
The Queen has seen  प्रमुख  constitutional changes  in   उसके  realms , such  as  devolution  in  the United  किंगडम   और   the  patriation of the  कनाडाई   संविधान  .
Times of personal significance have  शामिल  the births and marriages  of  her children ,  the  births of her grandchildren  ,   the  investiture of  the  Prince of  वेल्स  , and the celebration of  माइलस्टोन  such as her  चांदी  , Golden  ,   और  Diamond Jubilees  in   1977  , 2002  ,  and 2012 , respectively .
Major events in the Queen 's reign have  शामिल  the Troubles in Northern Ireland ,  the  Falklands War , wars with Iraq and the War  in  Afghanistan .
वहीँ  have been times of  निजी   विषाद   लिये  her which include the  मौत  of her father at 56 , the  हत्या  of Prince Philip 's uncle , Lord Mountbatten , the  विश्लेषण   of  her  children   's  marriages  in   1992  (  a   साल  deemed her annus  horribilis  ) , the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law ,  डायना  , Princess of Wales  ,   और  the  मौतों  of  उसके  mother  और  sister in 2002 .
The  महारानी  has occasionally  faced  severe press  आलोचना  of  the  royal family and republican sentiments , but support  लिये  the  साम्राज्य  and her  निजी   लोकप्रियता  remain high .
The  2010  United States Senate election in Florida  took  place  on   नवम्बर   2  , 2010 along with other elections  to  the United States  सीनेट  in  अन्य  states as well as all  चुनावों  to the United States House  of   प्रतिनिधि  and various  राज्य  and local elections  .
Republican Marco Rubio , former  स्पीकर   of  the  फ्लोरिडा   हाउस  of Representatives ,  पराजित  independent Charlie Crist and Democrat Kendrick Meek  in  a three-way race  .
One term Senator Mel Martinez was elected  in  a very close  रेस  against Democrat Betty Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote .
Martinez announced  on   दिसम्बर  2 ,  2008  that  he  would  नहीं  seek  re-election   to   the  Senate , and would resign  prior   to  the end  of  his  पद  .
In August 2009 , Governor Charlie Crist  घोषित  that he would  नियुक्त   उसके  former Chief of Staff  ,  George  lemieux  , a Republican  ,  to the Senate  सीट  being vacated by Martinez .
Governor Crist  सरेआम  announced he was running for the  सीट   in   mid-2009  .
At the time  he  received  अनेक  Republican  समर्थन  ,  ऐसे  as the National Republican Senatorial Committee , Martinez ,  और   the  2008  रिपब्लिकन   अध्यक्षीय  nominee  जॉन  McCain  .
उसके   support  of  the  American Recovery  और  Reinvestment Act of 2009 hurt his  लोकप्रियता   among  conservatives , and candidate  मार्को   rubio  surged  .
In  अप्रैल  2010  crist   घोषित  he  होता  drop  आउट  of the Republican primary  और  run as an  स्वतंत्र  .
the  National Republican Senatorial Committee  withdrew  its  समर्थन  of Crist and demanded  a   refund  of  इसके  campaign funds that  it  provided  लिये  the Crist  अभियान  .
Congressman Kendrick Meek  थी  the  पहला  Democrat to  घोषित  his intention to run .
सिकंदर  Snitker  थी  the first member of the  libertarian  Party  on   the   बैलट  for senator in Florida 's  इतिहास  .
Satellite  दृश्य  of  दोहा
Doha (  ,  '  or  ' , literally  :  `` the big  पेड़   ''   )   is  the capital city  of  the state of Qatar .
Located on the  coast   of   the  Persian Gulf ,
it  था  a population of  998,651  in 2008  ,  and is also one of the municipalities of Qatar .
Doha is Qatar  's  largest city , with over 60  %  of the  स्वदेश   's  population residing in Doha or its surrounding suburbs , and is also the economic centre of the  देश   .
दोहा  also  serves  as the  सीट  of government  of  Qatar , which is ruled by  शेख़   हमद  bin  खलीफा  Al  थानी   .
Doha is  घर  to  the   शिक्षा   नगर   ,  an area  devoted  to  शोध  and  शिक्षा  .
Doha was the site of the first ministerial-level meeting of  the   दोहा  Development  गोलाकार  of World Trade Organization negotiations .
The city of Doha held the  2006  Asian Games , which was the largest  एशियाई  Games ever held  .
दोहा  also hosted  the   2011  Pan  अरब   खेल  and most of the games at the 2011  afc  Asian Cup .
Doha  hosted  the  unfccc  Climate  negotiations  ( COP  18   )   दिसम्बर  2012 and will  मेजबान   a   विशाल  number  of  the venues  लिये  the 2022 FIFA World  कप  .
The World Petroleum  परिषद  held the 20th World Petroleum Conference in Doha  in  December 2011  .
Paranasal sinuses are  a  group  of   चार  paired air-filled spaces that surround the nasal cavity  (  maxillary sinuses ) , above the  आँखें   (  frontal sinuses  )  , between the eyes (  ethmoid  sinuses  )   ,  and behind the ethmoids (  sphenoid  sinuses ) .
The sinuses are named  लिये  the facial bones in which  वे  are located .
झुकना  manufacturing , lean enterprise , or lean  उत्पादन  , often simply , `` Lean , '' is a production  अभ्यास  that considers  the  expenditure  of  resources for any  लक्ष्य   अन्य  than the  सृष्टि   of  value for  the  end customer  to  be wasteful  ,  and thus a  निशाना  for  विलोपन  .
working   इससे  the perspective of  the  customer who consumes a product  or  service , `` value '' is defined  as  any  कार्रवाई  or  प्रक्रम  that  a  customer would be willing  to  pay for .
Essentially , lean  is  centered on  preserving  value with less work .
झुकना  manufacturing is a management  दर्शनशास्त्र   निकला  mostly from  the   टोयोटा   उत्पादन  System  (  TPS ) ( hence  the  term  toyotism  is also prevalent  )  and  पहचाना   as  `` Lean  ''  only in the 1990s .
TPS is  प्रसिद्ध   लिये  its focus on reduction of the original Toyota seven wastes  to  improve overall customer  मान  ,  लकिन  there are  varying  perspectives on how this is best achieved .
The steady growth of Toyota ,  इससे   a  small company to the world 's largest automaker , has focused attention on how it has achieved this success  .
icarly  logo
iCarly is an  अमरीकी   sitcom  that airs on Nickelodeon ,  जिससे  premiered on  सितंबर  8 , 2007  .
Nickelodeon  प्रचारित  many  एपीसोड   so  far such as ``  ido  ''  ,  `` iHire an  idiot  ''  ,  `` iPity the Nevel '' ,  ``  iDate Sam &  फ्रेडी  '' ,  इत्यादि  .  as  specials , despite their being regular episodes  .
प्रत्येक  episode title  begins  with a lower  मामला  i which represents the internet ,  as  in ``  icarly  '' .
The  दिखाएँ  was nominated for  an  Emmy award for Outstanding Children 's Program in  2009  .
The series starring Miranda Cosgrove  as  Carly  शे  , a 13-year-old who becomes  an   अंतरजाल  star .
The  श्रेणी   ended   on  November  23   ,  2012 with the one-hour special  एपीसोड   ``  iGoodbye '' .
a   कुल  of 7  सीज़न  and  109  episodes were  ब्रॉडकास्ट  .
The  largest   दर्शक  of the series was 11.2  लाख   दर्शक  ,  साथ  the  खास  episode  ``  iSaved  अपना  Life '' premiered in  जनवरी  2010 .
जब  Carly  (  Miranda Cosgrove ) and her sassy  बेहतरीन  friend  sam   (  Jennette McCurdy ) act funny at  a  school talent  दिखाएँ  audition  ,  tech-savvy  फ्रेडी   (  Nathan Kress )  टेपों  it and posts it online without telling  उन्हें  .
After seeing the girls ' strong chemistry  और  banter  ,   the  online  दर्शक  clamors for more and  the  iCarly webcast is born  .
जबकि  grappling with typical issues of  किशोरावस्था   ,   कार्ली  , Sam , and Freddie find out  कि   वे   have  also become online  हस्तियाँ   as  their show –  जिससे  features talent contests ,  व्यंजनों  ,  problem-solving  , and random dancing – garners international accolades  .
कार्ली  lives  in  Seattle  ,   वॉशिंगटन  with  उसके  26-year-old brother  और  guardian Spencer  (  Jerry Trainor ) and  produces  the show  in  a makeshift third-floor studio loft in their apartment .
उनके  mother has never  महरूम   देखी  or mentioned  ,  but their father  ,   स्टीवन  Shay ( David  chisum  ) , is a U.S. Air Force officer temporarily stationed on a submarine , and is often mentioned but is  तभी   देखी  in person  दौरान  the  श्रेणी  finale episode , ``  igoodbye   ''  .
Westlife were an  आयरिश  boy  बैंड  which formed in 1998 and disbanded in 2012  .
Originally  हस्ताक्षरित  by  साइमन   cowell  and managed by  लुई  Walsh  ,   the  group 's final line-up  consisted   of  Nicky Byrne , Kian Egan ,  चिह्नित  Feehily and Shane Filan  .
Brian McFadden  थी  a member from  1998  until  उसके  departure  in   2004  .
Westlife sold over 50 million records worldwide  ,  a total that  शामिल  studio albums , singles ,  वीडियो  releases ,  और   संकलन  albums .
The group  संचित  14 number-one  singles  in  the   संयुक्त   किंगडम  ( the third-highest in UK  इतिहास   )  , tying with Cliff Richard and ranking just behind  the   बीटल्स   और   एल्विस  Presley .
They achieved a  कुल  of  26  top ten  singles  over their  14-year   करियर  .
By 2010 ,  westlife  was listed in the Guinness World  रिकॉर्ड   ,  as the UK  's  top-selling album group  of  the  21st  century .
वे  also  जीती  The  रिकार्ड  of the Year  (  the only  म्यूज़िक  award  आधारित  on  पब्लिक  votes in  the   uk   )   a  record-breaking four times and in 2012 , the  आधिकारिक  Charts Company  सूचीबद्ध  Westlife  34th  amongst the biggest-selling singles  कलाकारों  in British music history .
Despite  उनके   यूरोपीय  and Asian success , Westlife never  प्रबंधित  to break  into   the  U.S. market ,  achieving   तभी   एक  hit single  in   2000  : ``  कसम  It Again `` .
in  October 2011  ,   westlife   घोषित  their intention  to  split in 2012  ,  following their  महानतम   हिट्स  Tour and  the  release of their Greatest Hits album .
The boyband 's final concerts were held on 22  और   23  June 2012 at Croke  पार्क  Stadium in  डबलिन  .
The first farewell concert  ,   offering   85,000  tickets  ,   बेची  out in  a  record-breaking  5  minutes  और   the  latter screened  सजीव  in cinemas worldwide .
विटामिन  A is  a  group of nutritionally unsaturated  hydrocarbons  , which include  रेटिनॉल   ,  retinal , retinoic acid and  अनेक  provitamin A  carotenoids  among which  beta-carotene  is the most important .
Vitamin  a   रै   अनेक  functions  ,  it is important for growth and  विकास  ,  लिये  the  मेंटेनेंस  of  the  immune  प्रणाली   और   शुभ  vision .
Vitamin A is  needed  by  the  retina  of  the eye  in   the  form of retinal  ,   जिससे   combines   साथ   प्रोटीन  opsin to  रूप  rhodopsin the light-absorbing molecule  ,  that is necessary  लिये   दोनो  low-light ( scotopic vision ) and  रंग   दृष्टि   .
Vitamin A also  कृत्यों  in a very different role as  an   irreversibly  oxidized  रूप  of retinol  ज्ञात  as retinoic acid , which  is  an  महत्वपूर्ण  hormone-like growth factor  लिये  epithelial and other cells .
in   भोजन  of animal origin ,  the  major form of vitamin  a  is an  ester   ,   primarily  retinyl  palmitate   ,   जिससे  is converted  to   रेटिनॉल  ( chemically an  दारू   )  in the small intestine .
The  रेटिनॉल  form functions as a storage form of the vitamin  ,  and can be  परिवर्तित   to  and from its visually active aldehyde  रूप  ,  retinal  .
The  संबद्ध   एसिड  ( retinoic acid  )   ,  a metabolite that can be  irreversibly  synthesized from  विटामिन  A , has only partial vitamin A  कार्यकलाप   ,  and does not function in the  retina  for  the  visual cycle .
Retinoic acid is  प्रयुक्त  for growth and  सेल्यूलर  differentiation .
सब   फ़ॉर्म  of vitamin A have a beta-ionone ring to which an  isoprenoid   कड़ी  is  संलग्न  , called  a   retinyl  group  .
Both structural  सुविधाएँ   हैं  essential  लिये  vitamin activity .
The orange pigment of  गाजर  – beta-carotene – can be represented as  दो  connected  retinyl  groups , which are used in the body  to  contribute to vitamin A  स्तर   .
Alpha-carotene  और  gamma-carotene also have  a  single retinyl group ,  जिससे  give  उन्हें  some  विटामिन   कार्यकलाप   .
None  of  the other carotenes  have  vitamin activity .
the  carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an  ionone   समूह  and has vitamin activity  in  humans .
विटामिन  A can  be  found in  दो  principal forms  in  foods :
रेटिनॉल  ,  the   रूप   of   विटामिन   a   अवशोषित  when  खाने   एनिमल   खाना  sources  ,  is a yellow  ,  fat-soluble substance  .
Since the pure alcohol form  is  unstable  ,  the  विटामिन  is  मिला  in tissues  in   a  form of  retinyl  ester .
It is also commercially  उत्पादित  and  administered   as  esters such  as  retinyl  एसीटेट   or  palmitate  .
The  carotenes  alpha-carotene , beta-carotene , gamma-carotene  ;  and the xanthophyll  beta-cryptoxanthin   (  all  of  which  contain   beta-ionone   बजती   )  , but no other carotenoids , function as provitamin A  in  herbivores  और   सर्वाहारी  animals , which possess  the  enzyme ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) which cleaves  beta-carotene  in the  intestinal  mucosa and converts it retinol  .
In  सामान्य  ,  carnivores  are poor converters  of   ionine-containing   carotenoids   ,  and pure carnivores  ऐसे  as  बिल्लियों   और  ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase  और   can  not  बदलें  any carotenoids to retinal ( resulting  in  none of the carotenoids being forms  of   विटामिन  A for these species ) .
Selena Marie  गोमेज़  ( born July 22  ,   1992   )  is  an  American singer and actress .
She  बना  her debut as a child actress  in  Barney &  मित्रों   .
In  2007  , Gomez came to prominence as a starring cast  सदस्य  in the television series Wizards of Waverly Place  .
She  हस्ताक्षरित  to  हॉलीवुड  Records the following  साल  ,  और   became  the founder  और  lead singer of  the   पॉप  band Selena  गोमेज़  &  the  Scene .
उनके  studio  एल्बम   चुंबन  & Tell (  2009  )  ,  A Year  बगैर  Rain ( 2010 ) ,  और  When the  सूर्य  Goes  bas  ( 2011 ) were certified Gold by the  रिकॉर्डिंग  Industry Association of  अमेरिका   (  RIAA  )  and  have   शाखित  Platinum-certified  singles   ``   naturally   ``   ,   ``  Who  says   ``  , and `` Love You like a Love Song  ``  .
After the release of  टेलीविज़न  films  और   उनके   accompanying  soundtracks , Gomez  बना  her theatrical film debut in Ramona and  beezus  in  2010   और  starred in Monte Carlo in 2011  .
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly Place  और   the   अंतराल  of Selena Gomez & the Scene in 2012 , she  केन्द्रित  on her  फिल्मी  career  ,   सेवारत   as  a voice  अभिनेत्री  in Hotel Transylvania and  अभिनीत  in Spring  ब्रेकर्स  the following  साल  .
Her debut solo  एल्बम  is tentatively scheduled to be released  in   गर्मियाँ   2013   ,  and is preceded by its lead  सिंगल  `` Come  &   मिलेंगी  It `` .
Outside of her work in  the  entertainment industry , Gomez is involved in philanthropic activities  through  charity work  और   विभिन्न   सोशल  and  पर्यावरणीय   कल्याणकारी  .
Tracie Monique  स्पेंसर  ( born July 12  ,  1976 ) is  an  American  r  & B and  पॉप  singer-songwriter  ,  actress  ,  and model .
Sacramento  is  the  पूंजी  city of the U.S. state of California  और  the seat  of  government of Sacramento County .
It is located at the confluence of  the  Sacramento River  और   the   अमरीकी   नदी  in the  उत्तरी   portion  of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  's expansive Central Valley  .
साथ   an   अनुमानित  2011  जनसांख्यिकी   of  477,891 ,  it  is the sixth-largest city  in  California and the  35th  largest  नगर  in  the  United States .
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center of the Sacramento metropolitan area which  शामिल  seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  is the fourth  largest   in  California  बाद  the  वृहद  Los Angeles Area ,  सैन   फ्रांसिस्को  Bay Area , and the  सैन   डिएगो  metropolitan area , as well  as  the  25th  largest in the  संयुक्त  States  .
Sacramento  थी   cited  by  समय   पत्रिका  as  अमेरिका  's most  ethnically  and  racially  integrated city  in   2002  .
Sacramento  became  a  नगर  through the efforts  of   the   स्विस   अप्रवासी  John Sutter  ,   sr.   ,  his son John Sutter  ,  Jr. , and James  W.   मार्शल  .
sacramento  grew quickly thanks to the  सुरक्षा  of  sutter   's  Fort , which was established  by  Sutter  in   1839  .
During  the   कैलिफ़ोर्निया   सुनहरा  Rush , Sacramento was  a  major  वितरण  point  ,  a commercial and  agricultural  center ,  और  a terminus for  वैगन  trains  ,   stagecoaches   ,   riverboats  ,  the   टेलीग्राफ   ,  the Pony Express ,  और  the  पहला  Transcontinental  रेलरोड   .
California  राज्य  University , Sacramento  ,   अधिक  commonly known as  sacramento  State or Sac State , is  the  largest  लोकल  university .
It is one of  the  twenty-three campuses of the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   राज्य  University system .
Drexel  विश्वविद्यालयों   sacramento  is  स्तिथ  in Downtown , Sacramento .
University of the Pacific  's   mcgeorge  School  of  Law is  स्तिथ   in  the  ओक   पार्क  neighborhood  .
in   जोड   ,  the University  of  California , Davis is located in nearby  डेविस  , west of the capital .
The  uc  Davis Medical Center ,  a  world-renowned research hospital , is located  in  the  नगर  of Sacramento .
Memorial  दिन   is   a  United States federal holiday which occurs  प्रत्येक  year  on   the   फाइनल   सोमवार  of May .
Memorial  दिन   is  a  दिन  of  remembering   the  men and women who died while serving in  the  United States  हथियारबंद   शक्तियां   .
formerly  known  as  Decoration Day ,  it  originated after the  अमरीकी  Civil War  to  commemorate the Union and Confederate  सैनिको  who died  in  the Civil War .
By the 20th century Memorial  दिन  had been extended  to   सम्मान  all Americans who have  died   in  all  युद्धों  .
It typically marks  the   प्रारंभ  of  the  summer vacation season  ,  while  मजदूर  Day marks its  समाप्त   .
Many  लोगों  visit cemeteries  और  memorials  ,  particularly to  सम्मान  those  जो  have died in  सैन्य  service  .
Many volunteers place  an  American flag  on  each grave  in   नेशनल  cemeteries .
By the early  20th  century ,  मेमोरियल  Day was an occasion for more general expressions  of   मेमोरी   ,  as people  visited  the graves of  उनके  deceased relatives  in   गिरिजाघर  cemeteries , whether they had served in  the  military or not .
It  भी  became  a  long weekend increasingly devoted  to   खरीदारी  , family gatherings , fireworks , trips to  the  beach  ,  and  नेशनल  media events  .
Annual Decoration Days for particular cemeteries are held on a Sunday  in   लेट  spring  or   जल्दी  summer in some rural areas of the American South  ,  notably in the mountains .
In cases involving a  परिवार  graveyard where remote ancestors as well as those who were  मृतक  more  recently  are buried ,  इस  may  लो  on  the  character  of  an extended  परिवार  reunion to which some people  सफर  hundreds of miles  .
People gather  on  the designated day  और  put flowers on  क़ब्रों   और   नवीनीकृत  contacts  साथ  kinfolk and  अन्य  .
There often is a  धार्मिक  service and a `` dinner  on   the   मैदान  , '' the traditional  पद   लिये  a  potluck  meal in which people  प्रयुक्त  to  स्प्रेड  the dishes out on sheets or tablecloths on the  ग्रास  .
It is  believed   कि   इस  practice began  पहले  the American  सिविल  War and thus  may  reflect the real origin of the `` memorial day ''  विचार  .
Memorial Day  is  not to be  उलझन  with Veterans  दिन  ; Memorial  दिन  is  a   दिन  of remembering the  मेन   और  women  जो  died while serving , while Veterans Day  मनाता  the service  of  all U.S. military veterans , living  or  dead  .
Mt . Zion  गिरिजाघर  state history marker near Philadelphia  ,  Mississippi .
Freedom Summer ( also known as the Mississippi  गर्मियाँ  Project ) was a campaign  in   the  United States  शुभारम्भ  in June 1964 to attempt to register as  अनेक  African American voters  as  possible in  मिसिसिपी  ,  जिससे  had historically excluded most blacks from  मतदान   .
The project also  नियत   up  dozens of Freedom  स्कूलों   ,   स्वतंत्रता   घरों  , and community centers  in  small  कस्बों   throughout  Mississippi to  सहायता  the local black population .
The project was organized by  the  Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ) , a coalition  of   the  Mississippi branches  of   the  four major civil rights  संगठन  (  sncc  , CORE  ,  NAACP and SCLC ) .
सबसे  of the impetus , leadership ,  और  financing  लिये  the Summer Project came  इससे   the  SNCC .
Robert Parris Moses , SNCC  फ़ील्ड   सचिव   और  co-director of COFO  ,  directed the  गर्मियाँ   प्रोजेक्ट   .
ब्लूज़  is the name  दिए  to  दोनो   a   musical   रूप  and  a  music  विधा  that originated in communities  of   primarily   the   ``   गहन  South `` of the United States  around  the  समाप्त  of the 19th  सदी   इससे   spirituals  , work songs , field  hollers   ,  shouts  और   chants  ,  और  rhymed  सरल  narrative  ballads  .
The blues form  ,  ubiquitous in  जैज़  ,  लय  and blues , and rock and  फेंकें   is  characterized by specific chord progressions , of which the twelve-bar  ब्लूज़   कॉर्ड  progression is the most common .
The  ब्लू  notes that , for expressive purposes are sung  or  played  flattened  or  धीरे  bent ( minor 3rd  to  major 3rd  )   in  relation to the  पिच  of  the   प्रमुख   स्केल   ,  are also  an  important part of the sound  .
The blues genre is  आधारित  on  the  blues  रूप   लकिन   possesses  other characteristics such as specific  गीत  , bass  लाइनों   ,   और  instruments .
Blues can be  subdivided  into several subgenres  ranging  from country  to  urban  ब्लूज़   कि   यहूद  more  or  less popular during different periods of the 20th  सदी  .
Best known are the  डेल्टा  , Piedmont  ,  Jump , and Chicago blues styles .
World War  ii  marked the transition from  ध्वनिक  to electric  ब्लूज़   और  the progressive opening of  ब्लूज़   म्यूज़िक  to a  wider   दर्शक  ,  विशेषकर   श्वेत  listeners .
In  the  1960s and 1970s , a hybrid  रूप  called  blues-rock  evolved .
The term `` the  ब्लूज़   ''  refers  to   the  ``  ब्लू   शैतानों  '' , meaning melancholy and sadness ; an  जल्दी  use  of   the  term in this sense is  मिला   in  George  colman  's one-act farce  ब्लू  Devils (  1798  ) .
Though  the  use of the  phrase  in African-American music may be older ,  it   रै   महरूम  attested to since 1912 , when  हार्ट  Wand 's  ``  Dallas Blues `` became  the   पहला   स्वत्वाधिकार   ब्लूज़  composition  .
in  lyrics  the  phrase is often  प्रयुक्त   to   describe  a  उदास  mood  .
A quarter  डालर  , commonly  shortened  to quarter , is a  सिक्का  worth 1⁄4 of a United  राज्य  dollar or 25 cents .
The quarter has been produced since  1796   .
The choice  of  25¢ as  a  denomination ,  as   opposed  to 20¢  जिससे  is more  आम  in other  भाग   of  the world  ,  originated  साथ   the  practice  of   dividing  Spanish Milled Dollars  into  eight wedge shaped segments ( cf. `` pieces of eight  ``  )  .
at  one time `` two  बिट्स   ``   ,   i.e  . two wedges , each wedge an eighth  ,  thus  a  quarter of  the  Spanish real , was a  आम  nickname  लिये  a quarter .
दिन  of the Dead  (  ) is a Mexican  अवकाश  celebrated throughout Mexico and around  the  world  in  other cultures  .
The  अवकाश  focuses on gatherings of family and friends to  दुवा  for and  याद   मित्रों  and family members  जो  have  died  .
it   is  particularly celebrated in Mexico  ,  where it  is  a national  अवकाश   ,   और  all banks  हैं  closed  .
The celebration  takes  place on November  1  and 2 , in  कनेक्शन  with  the   कैथोलिक  holidays of All  संतो   '  Day and All Souls  '  Day .
परंपराओं   कनेक्ट  with the holiday include building private  altars  honoring  the  deceased using sugar  skulls   ,  marigolds  ,   और  the favorite  भोजन  and beverages of the departed and  visiting   क़ब्रों  with these  as  gifts  .
They also leave possessions  of  the  मृतक  .
विद्वानों  trace the origins of the modern Mexican holiday to indigenous observances dating  वापस  hundreds of years  और  to  an   एज़टेक   पर्व  dedicated to the  देवी  Mictecacihuatl .
the  holiday has spread  throughout  the world  :  In  ब्राज़ील  , Dia  de   finados   is   a   पब्लिक  holiday that many Brazilians celebrate by  visiting  cemeteries  और  churches  .
In  स्पेन  , there are festivals and parades ,  और  , at the end of the  दिन  , people gather at cemeteries and  दुवा   लिये  their dead loved  ones   .
Similar observances  occur  elsewhere in Europe , and  similarly   प्रसंग  celebrations appear in many Asian and African cultures .
ANITA Mk VIII .
The ANITA Mark VII  और   अनीता  Mark VIII calculators were  शुभारम्भ   simultaneously  in late 1961  as  the world 's first  all-   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  desktop calculators .
designed   और  built by the  घंटी  Punch Co .
in Britain  ,   और  marketed through  इसके  Sumlock Comptometer division ,  वे  used vacuum tubes and cold-cathode switching tubes in  उनके  logic  circuits   और   nixie   tubes  for their numerical  प्रदर्शक  .
वे  were  the  first of a series of  डेस्कटॉप   और  hand-held electronic calculators that  the  company was to  develop   और   बेचें  under the  अनीता   नाम  into the mid-1970s  .
George Washington ( – ,  1799   )  was  the  first  अध्यक्ष  of the United  राज्य  ( 1789–1797 ) , the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army during the  अमरीकी   क्रांतिकारी  War ,  और  one  of  the  founding  Fathers of  the   संयुक्त  States .
He presided  over  the  सम्मेलन   कि   drafted  the Constitution  ,  which replaced  the   आलेख  of  कनफेडरेशन  and established  the   स्थिति  of  अध्यक्ष  .
Washington  थी  elected President  as   the   सर्वसम्मत   चुनाव  of the 69 electors  in   1788  , and he served two terms in office .
He  oversaw  the creation of a strong  ,  well-financed  नेशनल   सरकारी  that maintained neutrality  in  the  युद्धों   raging  in Europe  ,  suppressed rebellion , and  जीती   स्वीकृति  among Americans  of  all types  .
His leadership style established many  फ़ॉर्म  and  संस्कार  of  सरकारी  that have been used since  ,  such as using a cabinet system  और  delivering an inaugural address  .
Further , the peaceful transition from his  प्रेसिडेंसी  to the  प्रेसिडेंसी  of John Adams established  a  tradition that continues  into  the 21st century .
Washington was hailed as  ``  father of his country  ``   भी   दौरान  his lifetime .
Washington was  born  into the provincial  gentry  of Colonial  वर्जिनिया  ; his wealthy  planter  family owned  तम्बाकू  plantations and slaves  .
बाद  both his  पिता  and older brother died when he  थी  young , Washington became personally and professionally  संलग्न   to  the powerful William  फेयरफैक्स  , who promoted his career as  a   निरीक्षक   और  soldier  .
Washington quickly  became  a senior officer  in  the colonial  शक्तियां  during the  पहला  stages of  the   फ्रेंच  and Indian War .
Chosen  by  the Second Continental  कॉंग्रेस  in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of  the   महाद्वीपीय  Army in the American Revolution ,  वॉशिंगटन   प्रबंधित   to  force  the  British out of Boston  in   1776   ,  but was  पराजित  and  लगभग  captured later  कि  year  जब  he  खोया  New York City .
बाद  crossing  the  Delaware  नदी   in  the dead  of  winter , he  पराजित   the  British in two  लड़ाइयों  , retook New Jersey and restored momentum to the Patriot cause .
Because of  उसके  strategy , Revolutionary  शक्तियां  captured two  प्रमुख  British armies  at  Saratoga in 1777 and Yorktown in 1781 .
Historians laud Washington  लिये  his selection  और   पर्यवेक्षण  of  उसके  generals ,  प्रोत्साहन   of  morale and ability  to  hold  साथ  the army , coordination with  the  state governors and  राज्य  militia units  ,  relations with Congress and  ध्यान  to supplies , logistics ,  और  training .
in   बैटल  , however , Washington was repeatedly outmaneuvered by British generals with larger armies  .
After victory  था  been  finalized   in  1783  ,  Washington resigned as Commander-in-chief  बल्कि  than seize power , proving his opposition to  तानाशाही  and his  प्रतिबद्धता  to American republicanism .
Dissatisfied with the  कमजोरियों  of the  आलेख   of  Confederation  ,  in 1787 Washington  presided   over   the  Constitutional  सम्मेलन  that drafted the United States Constitution  .
निर्वाचित  unanimously  as   the   पहला   अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  in 1789  ,  he attempted to bring rival factions together to unify the nation .
He supported Alexander Hamilton  's  programs  to   अदा  off all state  और  national debt  ,  to implement an effective tax  प्रणाली   और   to  create a national bank (  despite  opposition from Thomas  जेफरसन  ) .
Washington proclaimed  the  United  राज्य   न्यूट्रल   in  the  युद्धों   raging  in Europe after  1793  .
he  avoided war  साथ   ग्रेट  Britain and guaranteed a decade of peace and profitable trade  by   securing  the Jay Treaty  in  1795 , despite intense opposition from the Jeffersonians .
Although never  officially   joining  the  federalist  Party ,  he  supported its programs .
वॉशिंगटन   's  Farewell Address was  an  influential primer  on  republican virtue  और   a  warning against  partisanship  , sectionalism , and involvement  in  foreign wars  .
he  retired from  the  presidency in 1797 and returned to his home , Mount Vernon , and  उसके   घरेलू   जीवन  where he  प्रबंधित  a variety  of  enterprises .
He  freed   सब   उसके  slaves by  उसके  final will .
Washington had a vision  of  a  ग्रेट  and  शक्तिशाली  nation  कि   होता   be   निर्मित  on republican lines  using   संघीय  power .
he  sought to use the national government  to  preserve liberty , improve  अवसंरचना  , open the western lands , promote  कॉमर्स  , found  a  permanent capital , reduce regional  तनाव  and  प्रचार   a  spirit of American nationalism  .
at  his death , Washington  थी  eulogized as `` first  in  war ,  पहला  in peace  ,  and  पहला   in  the hearts  of   उसके  countrymen  ''  by Henry Lee .
The Federalists made him the  प्रतीक  of their party but  लिये  many years ,  the   jeffersonians  continued to  अविश्वास   उसके  influence and delayed  भवन  the  वॉशिंगटन  Monument  .
as  the leader of the  पहला  successful revolution  विरूद्ध  a colonial empire  in   संसार  history  ,   वॉशिंगटन  became an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  icon  लिये   मुक्ति   और  nationalism , especially in France  और   लैटिन  America  .
फिस्कल  Year 2012 U.S. Federal Spending – Cash or  बजट  Basis  .
Fiscal Year  2012  U.S. Federal Receipts  .
The  बजट  of the United States  सरकारी   प्रायः  begins as  the  President 's proposal to  the  U.S. Congress  जिससे   अनुशंसा  funding  स्तर  for the next fiscal  साल  , beginning October 1 .
however  ,  कॉंग्रेस   is  the body  जरूरी  by law to pass  a  budget annually and to submit the budget  passed   by  both  घरों  to  the  President for signature .
Congressional decisions  हैं   governed   by  rules and legislation  regarding  the  संघीय   बजट  process .
Budget committees set spending  हद  for the House  और   सीनेट  committees and  लिये  Appropriations subcommittees  ,  which then approve  व्यक्तिगत  appropriations bills to allocate funding to various federal  कार्यक्रम   .
if  Congress fails to pass an  सालाना  budget ( as has  महरूम  the case since 2009 ) , a series of Appropriations bills must be  passed  as  ``  stop  गैप  '' measures  .
After Congress approves  an   appropriations  bill , it is sent  to  the  अध्यक्ष  , who may sign it into law , or may veto it  (  as  he  would a budget  जब  passed by  the  Congress ) .
A vetoed  विधेयक  is  भेजा  back to  कॉंग्रेस   ,  which  can   pass  it into law with a two-thirds majority in each chamber .
कॉंग्रेस   may   भी  combine  सब  or some appropriations bills into  an   omnibus  reconciliation bill  .
in  addition , the  अध्यक्ष   may  request and the Congress  may  pass supplemental appropriations bills or emergency supplemental appropriations  बिल्स  .
अनेक  government agencies provide  बजट  data and analysis .
These include  the  Government Accountability Office  (  GAO ) , Congressional Budget Office ,  the  Office of  प्रबन्धन  and  बजट  ( OMB )  और  the  u.S.  Treasury Department .
These  एजेंसियों  have reported that the federal government is  facing   a  series  of  important financing challenges .
in  the  short-run  ,  कर  revenues have declined  significantly   due  to a severe  मंदी  and  कर  policy  चुनाव  , while expenditures have  विस्तारित  for wars , unemployment insurance and other  सुरक्षा  net spending  .
In the long-run ,  expenditures  related  to   healthcare  programs such  as   medicare   और  Medicaid are projected to grow faster  than  the  अर्थव्यवस्था   overall   as  the population  matures  .
नई  Guinea  (   भी  , Tok Pisin :  niugini  , Dutch  :   nieuw  Guinea , and ; historically  :   पापुआ  ) is the world 's  दूसरी  largest island , after  ग्रीनलैंड   ,  covering a land  क्षेत्रफल  of 786,000 km2 .
Located in the southwest Pacific  समंदर  ,  it  lies geographically to the east  of  the  मलय  Archipelago , with  जिससे   it   is   sometimes  included as part of a  वृहद   indo-australian  Archipelago  .
geologically   it  is a  भाग  of the same tectonic plate  as  Australia .
When world sea levels were low  ,  the two shared shorelines ( which now  झूठ  100  to  140 metres below  समुद्र   स्तर  )  ,   combining  with lands now inundated  into  the  tectonic  continent of Sahul , also  ज्ञात  as Greater  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
The  दो  landmasses became separated  जब  the area now  ज्ञात  as the  टोरेस  Strait  flooded  after the end of the last glacial  काल  .
Anthropologically ,  नई  Guinea  is  considered part  of   मॅलानिशिया  .
Politically  ,   the  western half of the island  comprises  two  इंडोनेशियाई   प्रांतों  :  पापुआ   और  West Papua .
the   पूर्वी  half forms the  मेनलैंड  of the  देश  of  पापुआ   नई   गिनी  .
The island  रै   a   जनसांख्यिकी   of   परिचय   7.5   लाख  , with  a  very low population  घनत्व  of only 8 inh/km2 .
New Guinea is differentiated  इससे  its drier  ,   खुशामद  , and  कम  fertile southern counterpart  ,  Australia , by its much higher rainfall and its active volcanic geology , with its highest point , Puncak Jaya , reaching an elevation  of  4,884  m   (  16,023 ft  )  .
yet  the two land  masses  share a  समान  animal  fauna  ,  साथ   marsupials  , including wallabies and possums , and the egg-laying  monotreme  , the  spiny  anteater  ,  or echidna .
Other than bats and some two dozen  स्वदेशी   कृंतक  genera , there are  no  pre-human indigenous placental mammals .
Pigs , several additional species of rats ,  और  the ancestor  of  the  नई  Guinea Singing Dog were introduced with  इंसान   colonization  .
The human presence on the island dates back at least 40,000  सालो  to the  oldest  human migrations out  of  Africa .
Research indicates  कि   the   हाइलैंड्स  were  an  early and independent center of  कृषि  , with evidence of irrigation going  वापस  at  तनिक  10,000 years  .
क्युकी  of  the   समय  depth of its  inhabitation   और  its highly  fractured  landscape  ,   an  unusually  ऊँची   क्रमांक   of  languages are spoken  on  the  द्वीप   ,  with  कुछ  1,000 languages ( a figure higher than that  of  most continents )  having  been  catalogued   आउट   of  an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 human dialects .
Most are  वर्गीकृत  as Papuan languages , a generally accepted  भौगोलिक  term which a  अल्पसंख्यक  of authors hold  to  be a genetic  एक  .
A  क्रमांक  of  ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई  languages  हैं   बोला  on  the   coast  and on offshore  आइलैंड्स  .
In the  16th  century  स्पेनी  explorers  खोजा  the island and  पुकारा  it Nueva Guinea .
In  हाल  history western New Guinea  थी  included in the  डच  East  इंडीज   उपनिवेश  .
The  germans  annexed the northern coast of the  पूर्वी   हाफ  of the island as German New Guinea  in  their pre–World War I  प्रयत्न  to establish themselves as a colonial power , whilst the south  पूर्वी  portion  थी   अनिच्छा  claimed by Britain  .
Following the Treaty of Versailles , the German portion was  awarded   to   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  ( which was already governing the British claim ,  नामित  the Territory of Papua ) as a League  of   राष्ट्र   जनादेश  .
The  पूर्वी  half of  the  island  थी   granted   स्वतंत्रता   इससे  Australia  as   पापुआ  New Guinea in 1975  .
The western half gained independence  इससे  the  डच   in  1961 , but  became  part of Indonesia  जल्द  afterwards  in  controversial circumstances .
`` The Van Buren Boys  ''  is the 148th  एपीसोड  of  the  sitcom Seinfeld ,  और  name of a fictional  नई   यॉर्क  street  गिरोह  .
Their  चिह्न  is  क्रासिंग  the hands , with  एक   हाथ  with  सब  the fingers 'up ' and  स्प्रेड   आउट   .
The other hand has all but the thumb and pointer finger up , for a total of  आठ   (   8  ) .
the  gang is named for the 8th  अध्यक्ष  of the United States ,  मार्टिन  Van Buren  (   जो   थी  the first president from New York )  .
This  थी   the  14th  एपीसोड  for  the  8th  ऋतु  .
It  aired  on  फ़रवरी   6   ,  1997 .
bevo  sign
Bevo  थी  a non-alcoholic malt beverage , or near beer ,  brewed  in  the  United States by the  anheuser-busch  company beginning in  the  early  20th  century  .
Bevo  enjoyed  its greatest  कामयाबी  during the time of  निषेध   ,  when beer ,  वाइन   और   आसुत   liquors  , were made illegal for thirteen  सालो   .
The  anheuser-busch  company  प्रारंभ   brewing   bevo  when  alcoholic  beverages  यहूद  prohibited in 1916 by the  संयुक्त  States armed  शक्तियां  .
Production rose  greatly  with national prohibition in  1919   ,  and Bevo was  by  far the most popular  of   the   अनेक   ``  cereal beverages  ''  or `` near beers '' of the time .
At the  शिखर   of   इसके   लोकप्रियता  in the early 1920s , more than five million cases of Bevo  यहूद  sold annually  .
renard  with a mug  of  Bevo , depicted  in  terra cotta  on  the  आंतरिक  walls of  the  Bevo building ,  st.  Louis
Labels on the bottles  billed   it  as `` Bevo  the   पेय  '' .
The name `` Bevo  ''  was coined from  the  word `` beverage '' and the  स्लावी  language word for beer ``  pivo   ''   ,   और   थी  pronounced  ``  Bee-vo '' .
Some  bevo   विज्ञापन  featured  the  character `` Renard  the  Fox ``  (  based on the protagonist of a  मध्यकालीन   फ्रेंच   folk-tale   )  , and  promotional  mugs with this character were manufactured .
In  1930  Anheuser-Busch built a series  of  boat-bodied cars in  इसके  St. Louis shops called  the  `` Bevo  नौकाएँ  '' which were used  लिये  promotion .
सात  are believed to have been built on Pierce-Arrow 8-cylinder chassis while  एक   surviving   उदाहरण   थी   आधारित  upon 1930 Cadillac 353  v8  .
बिलबोर्ड  advertising Bevo in  trenton   ,   नई  Jersey  ,  1917
a  contemporary advertisement  पढ़ा   ``   कूलिंग  and invigorating  ,   bevo  the  पेय  .
Order by the case from your grocer , druggist ,  or  dealer . ''
the  paper label on  the  back of the bottle  पढ़ा  `` The All-Year-Round Soft Drink .
Appetizing - Healthful - Nutritious  -   ताज़ा  .
मिल्क  or water may  contain   जीवाणु  .
bevo  never does  .   ''
bevo  became  भाग  of the popular culture  of  the time , and is mentioned in various  लोकप्रिय  songs and  vaudeville   skits  of  the   era  .
This  led  to secondary  कठबोली  uses of the  शब्द  ; for  उदाहरण  , in American  सैन्य  slang  a  young and inexperienced  अधिकारी  was called  a  `` Bevo ''  .
The University  of  Texas  नामित  its mascot `` Bevo '' ,  a  name which has stuck to this day .
Irving Berlin included  a  paean to  the  drink  ,  `` You Ca n't Stay Up on Bevo  ''  , in  उसके  1917 army revue  ,  Yip  यिप   yaphank  .
In the late 1920s smuggled bootleg beer and liquor as well as  ``  homebrew `` ,  काटें  into  bevo   's   marketshare  .
With sales flattening  to   100,000  cases by 1929 , Anheuser-Busch  रोका  production  .
The  bevo  Mill ,  st.   लुई   ,  in 2008
the  Bevo  भवन  ,  साथ   the  Renard  अक्षर  prominently  प्रदर्शित  at the corners , still  operates   as   a   bottling  facility at their main brewery  in  St.  लुई   ,  Missouri .
The  लैंडमार्क   bevo  Mill  ,   constructed   by  August Anheuser Busch ,  sr.  in 1917 .
it   थी  closed in 2009 , but it reopened in October 2009  अंतर्गत   नई  owners .
Bevo  is  also mentioned in the  छोटी   स्टोरी  `` The  हत्यारे  `` by Ernest Hemingway ; as well  as   in  Babbitt  by  Sinclair  लुईस  .
Mylanta  is   an   over   the  counter  दवा   प्रयुक्त  for the treatment  of  acid reflux , heartburn , and gastroesophageal reflux disease ( also  ज्ञात  as  गर्ड  ) .
foremilk  and Hindmilk samples  of  human breast  मिल्क
a  glass of pasteurized  गाय   मिल्क
Milk is a white  द्रव   उत्पादित  by  the  mammary glands of mammals  .
It  is  the  प्राथमिक   सोर्स  of nutrition for young mammals  पहले  they are able to digest other  प्रकार  of food .
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum ,  जिससे   carries  the mother 's antibodies to the baby  और  can reduce the  रिस्क  of many diseases  in  the  baby  .
It also  contains   अनेक  other nutrients .
As an agricultural product , milk is extracted  इससे  mammals and  प्रयुक्त  as food for humans  .
विश्वव्यापी  , dairy  खेतो  produced about 730 million tonnes  of  milk  in   2011  .
इण्डिया  is the world 's largest producer and  उपभोक्ता   of  milk ,  yet   neither   निर्यात  nor imports milk .
New  जीलैंड   ,   the   यूरोपीय  Union 's 27 member states , Australia , and the  संयुक्त  States are  the   संसार  's largest exporters of  मिल्क  and milk  उत्पाद  .
China and Russia  हैं  the world 's largest importers  of  milk and  मिल्क   उत्पाद   .
Throughout the world  ,   वहीँ  are more than 6 billion consumers  of  milk and milk products .
Over  750  million people live within dairy  खेती  households .
Milk is a key contributor to improving nutrition  और   खाना  security particularly  in   विकासशील  countries .
Improvements  in  livestock  और  dairy technology offer significant promise in  reducing  poverty and malnutrition  in  the world .
Motorcycle speedway , usually referred  to  as speedway , is  a  motorcycle sport  involving  four and sometimes  up  to  छह  riders competing over  चार  anti-clockwise laps  of  an  ओवल  circuit .
Speedway motorcycles  उपयोग   तभी  one gear and have no brakes  और  racing takes place on a  चपटा  oval  track   प्रायः   consisting  of  मैल   or  loosely packed shale  .
Competitors use this surface to slide their machines  बगलों  ,  powersliding   or  broadsiding into  the  bends .
On  the   सीधा  sections of the track the motorcycles reach  speeds  of  up   .
the  exact origins of  the   खेल   हैं  unknown  लकिन  there  is   प्रमाण  of a type of speedway racing being  practised   in  the USA before the First World  युद्ध  and  in  Australia in the late 1910s  और   जल्दी   1920s  .
वहीँ  are now  दोनो  domestic  और   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   प्रतियोगिताओं  in a  क्रमांक   of  countries  सहित  the Speedway World Cup  whilst  the  उच्चतम   overall  scoring individual in the Speedway Grand Prix events  is   सुनाया  the  संसार  champion  .
Speedway is  लोकप्रिय   in  central and  उत्तरी   यूरोपीय  and  to  a  lesser  extent  in  Australia and North  अमेरिका   .
A variant of track  रेसिंग   ,  speedway is administered internationally  by  the Fédération Internationale de  motocyclisme  ( FIM ) .
Domestic speedway events are regulated by FIM affiliated national  मोटर   खेल   federations  .
Vitamin D  is  a group of  fat-soluble  secosteroids responsible for intestinal  अवशोषण  of calcium and  फास्फेट  .
In humans  ,  the most  महत्वपूर्ण  related compounds of vitamin D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3 .
Cholecalciferol (  विटामिन   d3  ) and ergocalciferol  (  vitamin D2 ) are unique  as  they constitute what we know as vitamin  d   और  can be  ingested  from  the  diet and/or supplements .
The  देह  can also  synthesize  vitamin D  (   इससे  cholesterol ) when  सूर्य   एक्सपोज़र   is   पर्याप्त  ( hence  इसके  nickname , the ``  सनशाइन   विटामिन   ''  ) .
Although vitamin  d  is  commonly  called a  विटामिन  , it  is  not  दरअसल  an essential  dietary   विटामिन  in  the  strict sense ,  as  it can be  synthesized  in adequate  amounts  by most mammals exposed  to   धूप   .
(  Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D efficiently  और  must  प्राप्त  it in  उनके  diet .  )
an   सशुल्क   रासायनिक  compound (  or  related  नियत  of compounds ) is  तभी   scientifically   पुकारा  a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism ,  और  must be obtained from their diet .
However , as with  अन्य   यौगिकों  commonly called vitamins  ,  vitamin  d  was discovered  in  an effort to find the  dietary  substance  कि   थी   lacking   in  a  बीमारी  , namely  ,   rickets  , the childhood form of osteomalacia .
additionally  , like  अन्य  compounds called  विटामिन  , in the developed world vitamin D is added  to   स्टेपल  foods ,  ऐसे   as  milk , to  avoid  disease due  to  deficiency .
Measures  of  serum levels  प्रतिबिंबित  endogenous synthesis from exposure  to   धूप  as  खूब   as  intake  इससे  the diet ,  और  it is believed  कि  synthesis may contribute  generally   to  the  मेंटेनेंस   of  adequate  सीरम  concentrations  .
The evidence indicates that the  संश्लेषण   of  vitamin D from  सूर्य  exposure  works  in a  प्रतिक्रिया  loop that prevents toxicity  लकिन  ,  क्युकी   of  uncertainty  परिचय  the  कर्कट  risk from sunlight  ,  no recommendations  हैं   जारी   by  the  संस्थान  of Medicine  ,   यूएसए  ,  लिये  the amount of  सूर्य  exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements .
Accordingly , the Dietary Reference Intakes for  विटामिन  D  assume  that  no  synthesis  occurs  and that all of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet  ,   हालांकि  that  होगा  rarely occur in practice .
In  the   जिगर  vitamin  d  is converted to calcidiol ,  जिससे  is also known as calcifediol (  इन  ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol  ,  or 25-hydroxyvitamin  d—abbreviated   25   (  OH  )  D ;  और  which is the specific  विटामिन  D  metabolite  that  is  measured  in  serum to determine a person 's vitamin D  औकात  .
Part of  the  calcidiol is converted by  the   गुर्दे  to calcitriol , the biologically  क्रियाशील  form of vitamin  D.   calcitriol   circulates  as a  हार्मोन   in  the  रक्त  , regulating the concentration of calcium and  फास्फेट  in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and  remodeling  of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted to  calcitriol  outside of  the  kidneys for  अन्य   उद्देश्य   ,   ऐसे  as the  अप्रसार   ,   differentiation  and apoptosis  of  cells  ;   calcitriol  also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation .
परे   इसके  use  to  prevent osteomalacia  or   rickets  ,  the  evidence for other health effects of  विटामिन  D  supplementation  in the  सामान्य   जनसांख्यिकी   is  inconsistent .
The  बेहतरीन   प्रमाण   of  benefit is for bone health and a decrease in mortality in elderly women .
The Duramax  is   a   सामान्य  Motors diesel engine family for  light-  and medium duty  ट्रक  ,  designed  by Isuzu .
The 6.6-liter Duramax  is  produced  by   dmax  , a  संयुक्त   venture   between  GM and Isuzu in  moraine   ,   ओहियो   .
इस  engine was initially installed in 2001  मॉडल  year Chevy and  जीएमसी  trucks and has been an  विकल्प  since  तब  in pickups  ,   वैन   ,   और   medium-duty  trucks .
In 2006  ,  production at  moraine  was  reportedly  limited to  लगभग  200,000 engines per  साल  .
On May 9 ,  2007  , DMAX announced the production  of   the  1,000,000th  duramax  V-8  डीज़ल  at its  moraine  facility  .
Duramax LML
balto  .
is  also a traditional  लिखा  abbreviation for  बाल्टीमोर   ,  Maryland .
Statue of  balto  in Central Park (  नई  York  नगर  )
balto   (   1919  – March 14 ,  1933  )  थी  a  siberian   हस्की  sled  श्वान  who  led  his  टोली   on  the final  लेग  of the  1925  serum run to  nome  ,  in   जिससे  diphtheria antitoxin was transported from Anchorage , Alaska , to  nenana  , Alaska  ,   by  train and then to Nome  by   श्वान  sled to combat  an  outbreak of the disease .
The run is commemorated  by   the  annual Iditarod Trail Sled  श्वान   रेस  .
Balto  थी  named  बाद  the  सामी  explorer Samuel Balto .
balto  died  at  the  आयु   of  14 .
प्राध्यापक  Stephen Hawking ,  ज्ञात  for  होने  a theoretical physicist , has appeared in many works  of  popular culture  .
the   निसान   उच्चिष्ट   is  a mid-size /  entry-level  luxury car  manufactured   by  Nissan , marketed as  the   ``   four-door  sports car '' .
The  origins  of the  उच्चिष्ट  began in  जुलाई  1976 as the Datsun 810 , an  upscale  six-cylinder version of the Bluebird , and was  spun  into its  अपना   लकीर   in  1981 ,  having   महरूम  made  लगातार   चूंकि   तब  .
The `` Maxima '' name was  लागू   धीरे  , beginning in 1981 .
सबसे   pre-2004  Maximas were  निर्मित   in   oppama  , Japan , until the current North American Maximas started being assembled in Smyrna  ,   टेनेसी  .
The `` Maxima '' has also  महरूम  applied to Cefiros and Laurels in various markets .
Propolis as hive  sealing
Propolis is a  resinous   मिश्रण  that  मधु  bees collect from tree  कलियों  , sap flows  ,  or other botanical sources .
It is used as a  sealant  for  अनावश्यक  open spaces  in  the hive .
propolis   is   प्रयुक्त  for small gaps ( approximately or less ) ,  जबकि  larger  स्पेसेस   हैं  usually filled  साथ  beeswax .
Its color  varies  depending  on  its botanical source , the  सबसे  common being dark  भूरा   .
propolis  is sticky  at  and above room temperature , .
At lower temperatures ,  it  becomes hard  और   बहुत  brittle .
स्टीवन  Tyler (  born   स्टीवन   विक्टर  Tallarico ; March 26 , 1948  )  is an American singer , songwriter , and multi-instrumentalist  ,  best  ज्ञात   as  the  frontman  and lead singer  of   the  Boston -based  चट्टान  band Aerosmith ,  in  which he  भी  plays the harmonica , and occasional piano and  percussion   .
He  is  known as  the  `` Demon  of  Screamin '  ''  due  to  his high screams and his  चौड़ी  vocal range .
he   is  also  ज्ञात  for his on-stage acrobatics .
During his high-energy performances ,  he  usually  पोशाक  in bright  ,  colorful  outfits  with his trademark scarves hanging  इससे   उसके   माइक्रोफोन  stand .
in  the 1970s , Tyler  रोज़   to  prominence as  the  frontman of Aerosmith , which released such milestone hard rock  एल्बम   as   खिलौने  in the Attic and Rocks  .
In the late  1970s  and early 1980s  ,  Tyler  था  a heavy  ड्रग  and  दारू  addiction , and the band 's popularity waned .
he  completed drug  पुनर्वास  in 1986 and subsequently  कायम   गम्भीरता  for  over  20  सालो   ,   लकिन   था   a  relapse  साथ   नुस्खा  painkillers in the  लेट  2000s  ,  for  जिससे   he  successfully  प्राप्त   उपचार  in 2009 .
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable  वापसी  in the late 1980s  और   जल्दी  1990s  साथ  the albums Permanent Vacation ,  पंप  , and Get  a  Grip  ,  Tyler became a  household  name and has  remained  a relevant rock  प्रतीक   .
as  a result  ,   he   रै   चूंकि  embarked on  अनेक  solo  endeavors  including guest  दिखावे   on  other artists ' music , film  और  TV roles ( including  as   a  judge  on  American Idol )  ,  authoring a bestselling  किताब  , and solo work (  सहित  a  शीर्ष   40   hit   सिंगल  in  2011  ) .
however   ,  he  रै   जारी   to  record music and perform with  एरोस्मिथ  , after more  than  43  सालो  in the band .
the   बैंड   's   नवीनतम  album  ,  Music from  another  Dimension !
,  थी  released on November 6 , 2012 .
Tyler  is  included among Rolling Stones 100  महानतम  Singers .
He was also ranked 3rd on  hit  Parader  's  Top  100  Metal  vocalists   of   सब  Time .
In 2001  he  was  inducted  into the  चट्टान  and Roll Hall  of  Fame with Aerosmith , and  he  was the presenter when AC/DC was inducted into the  हॉल  of Fame in 2003 .
In 2013 , Tyler and his  songwriting  partner Joe Perry will  be   प्राप्तकर्ता  of the ASCAP Founders Award and will  भी  be inducted into the  songwriters  Hall of Fame .
The liver produces urea in the urea  साईकिल  as a waste  उत्पाद  of  the  digestion of  प्रोटीन  .
Normal human adult blood should contain between 7 to 21 mg  of  urea nitrogen per 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL  )   of  blood  .
व्यक्तिगत  laboratories may have different reference ranges  ,  and  इस  is because the procedure may  vary  .
वेन   fontes  ( born  फ़रवरी  2 , 1940  )  is a former  अमरीकी  football coach and college  और  professional football player  जो  was the head coach  of  the NFL 's  डेट्रॉयट  Lions from  1988   to  1996 .
His 67 wins and  71  losses are each the most for a head coach  in   टोली   इतिहास  .
the  Jews  (  ISO 259-3 Israeli pronunciation ) , also  ज्ञात   as  the  यहूदी  people , are a nation  और  an ethnoreligious group , originating  in   the  Israelites or Hebrews of the  प्राचीन  Near  ईस्ट   .
the  Jewish ethnicity , nationality , and religion are strongly interrelated , as Judaism is the traditional faith  of  the  यहूदी  nation .
converts  to  judaism  , whose status as Jews within the  यहूदी  ethnos is equal  to  those born into it , have been  अवशोषित  into the  यहूदी  people  throughout  the  सहस्राब्दियों  .
In Jewish  परंपरा  , Jewish ancestry  is  traced to the Biblical patriarchs Abraham , Isaac and Jacob in  the  second millennium  bce  .
the  modern State of  इसराईल   थी   स्थापित  as a Jewish  nation-state  , and defines itself as such  in   इसके  Basic Laws .
Its  विधि  of  वापसी  grants the  सही  of citizenship to any Jew  जो  requests  it  .
Israel is the  तभी   देश   जहाँ  Jews  हैं   a  majority of  the  population .
Jews also enjoyed political  स्वायत्तता   twice  before in ancient  इतिहास  .
The  पहला   of   ये  periods lasted from 1350 to  586  BCE ,  और   encompassed  the periods  of   the  Judges  ,   the   संयुक्त  Monarchy  ,  and the Divided  साम्राज्य  of the Kingdoms of Israel  और   यहूदा  , ending with the  विनाश  of the First  टेम्पल  .
the  second was the period of  the  Hasmonean  किंगडम  spanning from 140 to 37  bce   .
चूंकि   the  destruction  of   the  First Temple , most Jews have lived in diaspora .
A minority  in  every  देश  in which they  सजीव  ( except Israel ) ,  वे  have  अक्सर   अनुभवी  persecution throughout  इतिहास  ,  resulting  in a  जनसांख्यिकी   कि  has  fluctuated  both in numbers and distribution over the centuries .
The  संसार  Jewish  जनसांख्यिकी  reached a peak of 15 million prior to the Second  संसार  War  ,   लकिन  six million Jews  यहूद  killed in  the  Holocaust  .
Since then the population has risen again  और  ,  थी  estimated  at  13.4 million  by  the North American Jewish Data Bank  ,  or  कम  than 0.2 % of the total world population ( roughly one in every 514 people  )   .
According to this report , about  42.5  % of  सब  Jews reside in  इसराईल  (  5.7  million  )  , and 39.3  %   in  the United States ( 5.3 million  )   ,  with most of  the  remainder  जीना  in Europe ( 1.5  लाख   )  and Canada (  0.4  million  )   .
These  संख्याएँ   शामिल   सब  those who  consider   themselves  Jews  ,   whether  or not they  हैं  affiliated  साथ  a Jewish  संगठन   .
the  total world Jewish  जनसांख्यिकी  , however  ,  is difficult  to  measure .
In addition to issues  साथ  census methodology  ,  there  हैं  halakhic disputes  regarding   जो  is a Jew and secular , political , and ancestral identification factors that may  affect   the  figure considerably .
Corpus  christi  procession .
Oil on canvas by Carl Emil  doepler  .
Corpus Domini  redirects  here  .
For other uses see Corpus Domini  (   बहुविकल्पी  )
the  Feast  of  Corpus Christi  (  Latin for Body  of   मसीह  ) , also  ज्ञात  as Corpus Domini , is a Latin Rite liturgical solemnity celebrating the tradition  और  belief in the body and blood  of  Jesus Christ  और   उसके  Real Presence in the  eucharist  .
It emphasizes the joy  of  the  संस्था  of the Eucharist , which  थी   observed  on Holy Thursday  in  the  somber  atmosphere of the nearness of  शुभ  Friday .
In  the  present Roman Missal  ,  the feast is designated the solemnity of  the  Most Holy Body and Blood of  मसीह   .
It is  भी   मनाये  in  कुछ  Anglican , Lutheran , and  बूढ़ा  Catholic Churches that hold similar beliefs regarding the Real  उपस्थिति  .
The  feast  is liturgically celebrated on the Thursday  बाद  Trinity Sunday or , ``  जहाँ  the Solemnity of  the  Most Holy Body  और   रक्त  of Christ is  नहीं  a  पावन  Day of  दायित्व   ,  it is assigned to  the  Sunday after the Most  पावन   ट्रिनिटी  as  इसके   उचित  day '' .
At the  समाप्त   of  Holy Mass , there is  प्रायः   a  procession of the Blessed Sacrament ,  generally   प्रदर्शित  in a monstrance  .
the  procession is followed by Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament .
A  notable  Eucharistic procession  is  that presided over by the Pope  प्रत्येक  year in Rome , where it begins at  the  Archbasilica of  st.  John Lateran and  makes  its way  to  the  basilica  of  संत   मरियम   प्रमुख   ,   जहाँ  it concludes with  सुनाकर  .
C-reactive protein (  सीआरपी  )  is  a protein  मिला   in  the blood , the levels of which  वृद्धि  in response to  सूजन  (  i.e   .  C-reactive protein  is  an acute-phase  प्रोटीन   )  .
Its physiological  भूमिका  is to  bind   to  phosphocholine expressed on the  सतह   of  dead or dying  कोशिकाएं  ( and some types of bacteria  )   in  order to activate  the  complement system  via  the  c1q  complex .
सीआरपी   is   synthesized  by the liver in response to factors released  by   macrophages   और  fat cells  (  adipocytes )  .
It is a  सदस्य   of  the pentraxin family  of  proteins  .
it  is  नहीं  related  to   c-peptide  or protein C .
C-reactive protein was the  पहला  pattern recognition receptor  (   prr  ) to  be  identified .
The start of the systematic  यूरोपीय  colonization of the Americas is  typically   दिनाँक  to 1492 , when  a   स्पेनी   expedition   headed  by  क्रिस्टोफर  Columbus sailed for India to  खोलें   व्यापार  but inadvertently  खोजा  the Americas .
European conquest  ,  large-scale exploration and colonization  जल्द   followed  .
देखकर   कि  Europe was preoccupied  साथ  many internal wars and was slowly recovering from the many deaths  कि  the bubonic plague caused ,  the   रैपिड  expansion at which  it  grew in wealth and power was  unforeseeable  in  the  early 1400s .
The first expeditions occurred  साथ  the Caribbean coasts on  the   आइलैंड्स   of  Hispaniola ,  प्यूर्टो  Rico and Cuba ,  और  after 1500 extended into the interiors of both North and South America .
In 1497  ,  sailing  इससे  the north  on   निमित्त  of England ,  जॉन  Cabot landed on the North American  coast  ,  और   a  year  बाद  , Columbus  's   तीसरा   voyage  reached the South American  coast  .
फ़्रांस  founded colonies in much of eastern North America  ,  on a number of  caribbean  islands ,  और   in  South  अमेरिका   .
Portugal colonized Brazil .
Eventually ,  the   संपूर्ण  Western Hemisphere came under  the  control  of  European governments , leading to profound changes to  इसके  landscape , population ,  और  plant and  एनिमल  life .
In  the  19th century alone  over  50 million people left Europe for the Americas  .
The post-1492 era is  ज्ञात  as the  काल  of the  columbian   एक्सचेंज  .
कैथ   रिचर्ड्स  ( born  18   दिसम्बर  1943  )   is  an English musician ,  singer-songwriter  and  संस्थापक  member  of   the   अंग्रेज़ी  rock  बैंड  the Rolling Stones .
Rolling Stone  पत्रिका  said Richards had created  ``  rock 's greatest single body  of  riffs  ''  , ranking him 4th  on  its list of  100   बेहतरीन   guitarists  .
Fourteen songs Richards wrote with  the  Rolling Stones ' lead vocalist Mick  जैगर   हैं  listed  among  Rolling Stone magazine 's `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time `` .
Richards '  सुर्खी   लिये  illicit drug use stems in  भाग  from several  ड्रग  busts  दौरान  the  लेट   1960s  and 1970s and his candour regarding his addiction to  और  eventual  abstinence   इससे  heroin .
टेस्टोस्टेरोन  is a  स्टेरॉयड  hormone from the androgen  समूह  and  is  found  in   स्तनधारियों  ,  सरीसृपों   ,  birds  ,  and other  vertebrates  .
In mammals , testosterone is primarily  स्रावित  in the  अंडकोष  of males  और  the ovaries of  महिलाओं   ,   हालांकि  small amounts  हैं  also  स्रावित   by  the adrenal glands  .
It is the principal male  sex  hormone and an anabolic steroid .
In men  ,  testosterone  plays  a key role  in  the development of  पुरूष   reproductive  tissues such as the testis and prostate as well as  promoting  secondary  यौन  characteristics such as increased  मांसपेशी  , bone mass ,  और  the growth  of  body  बाल  .
In addition  ,   टेस्टोस्टेरोन  is  अनिवार्य   लिये  health and  well-being  as well  as  the  रोकथाम  of  ऑस्टियोपोरोसिस  .
On  औसत   ,  in adult human males , the plasma concentration of testosterone  is  about 7–8 times as great  as   the  concentration in adult  इंसान  females '  प्लाज्मा   ,  but as the metabolic consumption of testosterone in  males  is greater ,  the   रोज़  production  is   परिचय   20   टाइम्स  greater in men .
Females also are more sensitive to  the  hormone  .
टेस्टोस्टेरोन   is   observed  in  सबसे   vertebrates  .
Fish  मेक   a   थोड़ा  different  रूप   पुकारा  11-ketotestosterone  .
Its counterpart in insects is ecdysone  .
These ubiquitous  steroids  suggest that  sex   हार्मोन  have an ancient evolutionary history  .
Cluster sampling is a  sampling  technique used when `` natural ''  लकिन  relatively homogeneous groupings are  evident  in a statistical population .
it  is often used  in  marketing research .
In this technique , the  कुल  population  is   विभाजित  into these  समूह  ( or  क्लस्टर  ) and a simple random  नमूना  of  the  groups is selected  .
तब  the required information is collected from a simple  यादृच्छिक  sample  of  the elements  भीतर  each  चयनित  group .
This may be done  लिये  every element in these groups or a subsample  of  elements  may  be selected  भीतर  each of these groups  .
a  common motivation for cluster sampling  is   to   reduce  the  कुल  number of interviews and costs  दिए  the desired accuracy .
Assuming a fixed sample size  ,  the  तकनीक  gives more accurate results when most of the variation  in  the  जनसांख्यिकी  is within the groups ,  नहीं   between  them  .
Jamestown  is  a town in  guilford  County  ,   उत्तर  Carolina , United  राज्य   ,  and is a suburb of  the  nearby cities of Greensboro and High  पाइंट   .
The population was 3,382  at  the  2010  census .
Natalie Portman  (   born  Natalie  hershlag   ;   ;  June  9  , 1981 ) is an actress  और  model  साथ  dual American and Israeli citizenship .
Her  पहला  role  थी  as an  अनाथ  taken  in  by  a  hitman in the 1994 action film ,  लकिन  mainstream  कामयाबी  came when  वो  was cast as Padmé  amidala  in the  स्टार   युद्धों  prequel  त्रयी  ( released in 1999  ,  2002 and  2005   )  .
in   1999  , she enrolled at  हार्वर्ड  University to study psychology  जबकि   स्टिल  working as an actress .
वो   समाप्त   उसके  bachelor 's degree in  2003  .
in   2001  , Portman opened in New York City 's Public  थिएटर  production of  एंटोन   चेखव  's The  सीगल   .
In  2005   ,   पोर्टमैन  received  a  nomination for the  अकादमी  Award for  बेहतरीन   supporting  Actress and won  the  Golden  ग्लोब  Award  लिये   बेहतरीन  Supporting Actress - Motion Picture for  the   नाटक  Closer .
वो  won a Constellation Award for  बेहतरीन  Female Performance and a Saturn Award for Best  अभिनेत्री   लिये   उसके  starring role  in  V  लिये  Vendetta ( 2006  )  .
वो  played leading  भूमिकाएँ  in the  ऐतिहासिक  dramas  गोया   's  Ghosts  (  2006  )  and  the  Other Boleyn  लड़की  ( 2008  )  .
in  May  2008  , she served  as   the   youngest  member of the  61st  Annual Cannes Film  पर्व  jury .
Portman 's  directorial  debut , Eve  ,  opened  the  65th Venice International Film  पर्व  's  शॉर्ट्स  competition in 2008 .
पोर्टमैन  directed  a  segment  of  the collective film New York ,  i  Love You  .
In  2011  , Portman won the Academy Award , the Golden  ग्लोब  Award  ,  the BAFTA Award ,  the   स्क्रीन  Actors Guild Award , and the Independent  स्पिरिट  Award for her lead performance as Nina Sayers in  ब्लैक  Swan .
Copper is a chemical  तत्व  with the symbol  cu  ( from ) and atomic number  29  .
It is a ductile metal with  बहुत  high thermal  और   विद्युत   चालकता   .
Pure copper is soft  और  malleable ;  a  freshly  उजागर  surface  रै  a  reddish-orange  color  .
it  is used as a  कंडक्टर  of  ऊष्मा  and electricity  ,  a building material  ,   और   a  constituent  of  various metal alloys .
The  मेटल  and  इसके   alloys  have been  प्रयुक्त   लिये  thousands of years  .
in   the  Roman  era  , copper was principally mined  on   साइप्रस  , hence the origin of  the  name of  the  metal as сyprium  (  metal of Cyprus )  ,  later  shortened   to  сuprum .
इसके   यौगिकों  are commonly encountered as copper ( II ) salts , which often impart blue or green  रंगों  to minerals  ऐसे  as azurite and turquoise and  have   महरूम  widely used historically as pigments  .
architectural  structures  निर्मित  with copper corrode  to  give green  verdigris  ( or patina )  .
सजावटी  art prominently features  तांबे  ,  दोनो  by  itself   और  as part of  pigments  .
Copper is essential to all living organisms  as  a trace dietary mineral  क्युकी  it  is  a  कुंजी   constituent  of the respiratory enzyme complex cytochrome c oxidase  .
in   molluscs  and crustacea copper is  a  constituent of the blood pigment hemocyanin , which is replaced  by   the   iron-complexed  hemoglobin  in  fish and other vertebrates .
the  main  क्षेत्रों  where copper  is  found in vertebrates are liver , muscle and bone .
In  sufficient  concentration  ,  copper compounds  हैं  poisonous to  उच्चतर   जीवों   और  are used as bacteriostatic  substances  , fungicides ,  और   लकडी  preservatives .
The major professional sports  लीग  ,  or  simply  प्रमुख  leagues ,  in  the United  राज्य   और  Canada are the  उच्चतम   पेशेवर  competitions  of  team sports in  the  two countries  .
Although individual sports  ऐसे   as   गोल्फ़  , tennis , and auto racing  हैं   भी  very  लोकप्रिय   ,  the  पद   is  usually limited to  टोली  sports  .
The term `` major league '' was first used in 1921 in reference  to  Major League  बेसबॉल  ( MLB  )   ,   the   शीर्ष  level  of  professional  अमरीकी  baseball  .
Today ,  the   प्रमुख   उत्तरी  North America professional  टोली  sports  लीग  are  प्रमुख  League Baseball ( MLB ) ,  the  National Basketball  संघ  ( NBA )  ,  the  नेशनल  Football League  (  NFL  )  ,  और  the  नेशनल  Hockey League (  एनएचएल  ) .
अन्य  notable leagues  शामिल   प्रमुख  League Soccer (  mls  ) , the Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल  League ( CFL ) ,  the  Arena Football League , Major League Lacrosse ,  the   नेशनल  Lacrosse League and the  महिलाओं  's  नेशनल   बास्केट   संघ  .
The NFL  ,  MLB  ,  NBA ,  और  NHL are commonly referred  to  as  the   बिग  Four .
Each  of  these  is   the  richest professional club competition in its  खेल   विश्वव्यापी  .
the  best  खिलाड़ी  can become cultural icons  in  both countries  और  elsewhere  in  the world , because the  लीग  enjoy a significant place  in  popular  संस्कृति  in the US and Canada .
The NFL has 32  टीमों   ,  and the others  have  30 each .
the  vast majority  of  major  लीग  teams  हैं   concentrated  in the most populous metropolitan areas of  the   संयुक्त  States .
Baseball , football , hockey , and  सॉकर  have  था  professional leagues for over 100 years ;  जल्दी  leagues such as  the  National Association  ,   ओहियो   लीग  , and National Hockey  संघ   formed   the  basis of the modern MLB ,  एनएफएल  and  एनएचएल  respectively  .
Soccer was  पहला   professionalized  in 1894 , but leagues  suffered  greatly from  कमी   of  sustainability  और  seldom lasted  अधिक  than a decade .
सॉकर  's greatest  सफलताओं  were in the form of the American  सॉकर  League  (   1921-1933   )  , the  असली  North  अमरीकी  Soccer League  (  1968-1984 ) , the National Professional Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) and , currently , Major  लीग  Soccer  (   1996-present  )  .
Basketball is a relatively new  विकास  ;  the  NBA evolved from  the  National Basketball League and its splinter  समूह  the Basketball Association  of   अमेरिका   ,  taking  on   इसके  current form  in  1949 .
प्रत्येक  major  लीग   averages  15,000  प्रशंसक  in attendance per  खेल  or  उच्चतर  as of  2011  .
मध्याह्न  Altitude is an astronomical navigation  विधि  of calculating an  निरीक्षक  's latitude .
अर्जित  value management  (   evm  ) , or  अर्जित  value project/performance  प्रबन्धन  ( EVPM  )  is  a   प्रोजेक्ट  management technique  लिये  measuring  प्रोजेक्ट  performance and progress in an  उद्देश्य   manner  .
क्युकी  EVM has  the   क्षमता  to  combine  measurements of :
scope
अनुसूची
और  cost,
in a single  एकीकृत  system , Earned Value Management  is  able to provide accurate forecasts of project performance  समस्याएं   ,   जिससे   is   an  important contribution for  प्रोजेक्ट   प्रबन्धन  .
Early EVM research showed that the areas of planning and control  हैं  significantly impacted by its  उपयोग  ; and  similarly  , using the methodology improves  दोनो  scope  परिभाषा  as well  as  the analysis  of  overall  प्रोजेक्ट  performance .
More  हाल  research  अध्ययन  have shown that the principles  of  EVM are positive predictors of project  कामयाबी  .
लोकप्रियता  of EVM has grown significantly in recent years beyond  सरकारी   contracting  , in which  सेक्टर   इसके  importance continues to rise  (  e.g.  ,  recent  नई  DFAR  नियम  ) ,  in  part because EVM can also surface  in   और  help  substantiate  contract disputes .
रंगीन   वसन्त  garden flowers
वसन्त  is  एक   of   the  four conventional  शीतोष्ण  seasons , following winter and preceding summer .
वहीँ   हैं   विभिन्न  technical definitions  of  spring , but  लोकल  usage  of  the  पद  varies according  to  local climate , cultures and customs .
जब   it   is  spring  in   the  northern hemisphere  ,  it will be  पतझड़   in  the  दक्षिणी  hemisphere .
At the  वसन्त   विषुव  ,  दिनों   हैं   बंद  to 12 hours long with  दिन  length increasing as the season progresses .
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season ,  और  also to  विचार   of   rebirth   ,  rejuvenation  ,   नवीकरण  ,  क़यामत  , and regrowth ,  साथ   त्यौहार  such  as   कार्निवल   ,   ईस्टर  and Holi being celebrated  at   इस  time  .
Jamestown was a  उपनिवेश  in the Colony of Virginia , the first permanent English settlement in  the  Americas .
Established by  the  Virginia  कम्पनी   of   लंदन  as  ``  James  फोर्ट  ''  on   may   14  ,  1607  ( O.S . , May 24 , 1607 N.S . ) ,  it  followed several earlier  विफल  attempts , including  the  Lost Colony of Roanoke  .
Jamestown served as the capital  of  the colony for 83 years , from 1616 until 1699  .
The settlement was located  भीतर  the territory of  a  political entity  ज्ञात  as Tsenacommacah , the  राज्य   of   the  Powhatan Confederacy  ,   साथ   around   14,000   देशी   निवासियों   ,  and specifically  थी  in part of the subdivision known as the  paspahegh  tribe .
the  natives initially welcomed the  colonists  with dancing  ,  feasting  और  tobacco ceremonies  ,  and  वे  provided  निर्णायक  provisions and  support   लिये  the survival  of  the  colonists   ,  who were not agriculturally inclined , although relations with  the  newcomers also soured fairly early on ,  अग्रणी  to the  कुल  annihilation  of  the Paspahegh in warfare  भीतर  3 years  .
भीतर  a year  of  Jamestown 's founding ,  the  Virginia  कम्पनी  brought Polish  और   डच   colonists  to help improve  the  settlement .
In 1619  ,  the first documented Africans were brought to  jamestown  , though the modern conception of slavery in  the  future  संयुक्त  States did not begin in Virginia until  1660   .
When the colony  थी  subdivided into the original eight shires of Virginia  in  1634 , the town  became  located in the eponymous  जेम्स  City Shire  .
the  London Company  's  second settlement ,  बरमूडा   ,  claims to be the  साईट  of  the  oldest town  in  the English New World , as St. George 's ,  बरमूडा  was officially established (  as  New  लंदन  )  in  1612 , whereas James Fort , in Virginia ,  थी  not to be  परिवर्तित   into  James towne  जबतक  1619 ,  और  further  किया   नहीं   जीवित  into the  उपस्थित   दिन  .
In 1699 ,  the  capital  थी   relocated  from Jamestown to what is  आज  Williamsburg ,  बाद  which  jamestown  ceased  to   मौजूद   as   a  settlement ,  मौजूदा  today only  as  an  पुरातत्व  site  .
आज   ,  Jamestown  is  one  of  three  स्थितियाँ  comprising  the  Historic Triangle  of  Colonial Virginia , along  साथ  Williamsburg  और   yorktown  , with  दो  primary  विरासत  sites .
Historic  jamestowne  ,  the   पुरातत्व  site on Jamestown Island , is a cooperative  प्रयत्न   by   jamestown  National Historic Site ( part of  औपनिवेशिक  National Historical  पार्क   )  , and Preservation Virginia .
The Jamestown Settlement  ,   a   जीना  history interpretive  साईट  , is operated by  the   jamestown  Yorktown Foundation in  संयोजन   साथ  the Commonwealth of  वर्जिनिया   .
जेम्स  Christopher Frey  (  born  सितंबर  12  ,   1969  )  is  an  अमरीकी  writer .
उसके  books A Million Little  टुकड़े  (  2003   )  and My Friend Leonard  (  2005 )  ,   as   खूब  as Bright Shiny Morning  (  2008  )  , were bestsellers .
he   थी  the  विषय   of   a   कांड   जब  investigators discovered  कि   थाना  time and the extent  of  certain injuries were exaggerated  in   a  Million Little  टुकड़े  ,  a   अधिकारीगण  autobiographical  खाता   of  the  लेखक  's  संघर्ष  with addiction .
Deere & Company  ,  most  commonly  known  by  its  नाम  John Deere , is an American  निगम  based  in  Moline , Illinois , and  एक  of the  largest   निर्माताओं   of   agricultural  machinery  in   the  world .
in   2012  , it was listed as 97th  in  the Fortune  500   अमेरिका  's ranking and 190th in the Fortune 500 Global ranking .
Deere and Company agricultural products , sold  अंतर्गत   the  John  deere  name  ,  include  tractors  , combine harvesters ,  कपास   हार्वेस्टर  , balers , planters / seeders , sprayers ,  और  UTVs .
The  कम्पनी   is  also  a  manufacturer of construction equipment and forestry equipment ,  as  well as  a   प्रदायक  of  डीज़ल   इंजन  and drivetrains ( axles , transmissions  ,   gearboxes  ) used  in   भारी  equipment .
Additionally ,  जॉन  Deere  manufactures  equipment used in  लॉन  , grounds ,  और  turf care  ,  such as  walk-behind  lawn  mowers   ,  zero-turn  लॉन   mowers  , lawn  tractors  ,  और  snowthrowers  .
To support  the   कोर  businesses , John Deere  भी   provides   वित्तीय   सेवाएं   और  other  सम्बन्धित  activities .
the   कम्पनी  's slogan  is  `` Nothing Runs Like a  deere  '' and  रै   a  picture of  a  leaping  हिरण   as  a  लोगो  , a word play  pun  on  ``  nothing runs like a deer  ''  .
कार्ल  Westby coined  the  phrase ``  nothing  Runs  जैसे  a Deere ''  लिये   a  marketing campaign  to  sell snowmobiles .
The  कम्पनी  's  उत्पाद   हैं  also identifiable by its  distinctive  shade of  ग्रीन   पेंट  ,  प्रायः   augmented  by  पीला  trim .
the   संयुक्त  States ten-dollar  विधेयक  ( $  10  )  is   a   denomination  of United States currency .
The first  u.S.   सचिव   of   the   राजकोष  (  1789–95   )  , Alexander  हैमिल्टन  ,  is  currently featured on the obverse of the bill , while  the  U.S.  राजकोष  Building is  प्रदर्शित  on the reverse .
(  हैमिल्टन  is one  of  two non-presidents  प्रदर्शित  on currently issued U.S. bills .
The other  is   बेंजामिन  Franklin , on the  $   100   विधेयक  .
Hamilton is one  of  only four  लोगों  featured on  u.S.  paper currency ( 1861 to  the  present  )  who was  नहीं  born in the continental  संयुक्त  States , as he was from  the   वेस्ट  Indies .
The others  हैं  :  अल्बर्ट  Gallatin ,  स्विट्ज़रलैंड  ( $ 500  1862/63   विधिक  Tender )  ;  George Meade  ,  Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury  नोट  )  ;  and Robert Morris  ,   इंग्लैण्ड   (  $  1,000   1862/63   विधिक  Tender ; $ 10  1878/80  Silver Certificate ) .
In  जोड  ,  kamehameha  I  ,  appears on  the   2008  Hawaii state  क्वार्टर  . )
सब  $  10  bills  जारी  today are  संघीय   आरक्षित   टीप  .
The Bureau  of  Engraving  और  Printing says the average life of  a  $  10  bill in circulation is 18 months before  it   is  replaced due to wear .
Approximately 6 % of  सब  US  banknotes  printed  in  2009  यहूद  $ 10 bills .
Ten dollar  बिल्स  are delivered by Federal Reserve  बैंको  in  पीला  straps  .
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is  जॉन   trumbull  ’s 1805  पोर्ट्रेट  of  हैमिल्टन  that belongs to the portrait  संग्रहण   of   नई   यॉर्क  City Hall .
the  $ 10 bill  is   the   तभी   u.S.  paper currency in  परिसंचरण  in which  the   पोर्ट्रेट  faces  to  the left (  the  $  100,000   विधेयक  featured a portrait  of  Woodrow Wilson  facing   to  the  बाएँ  ,  लकिन  was used only  लिये  intra-government  ट्रांजेक्शन  )  .
Andy  सैमुएल  Griffith ( June 1 , 1926 – July 3 ,  2012   )   थी  an American actor  ,   टेलीविज़न  producer ,  ग्रैमी  Award -winning  southern-gospel   सिंगर  , and  लेखक  .
He was a Tony Award nominee  लिये  two roles , and gained prominence  in  the  अभिनीत  role in  निदेशक  Elia Kazan  's  film A  फेस  in the  भीड  (  1957  )  पहले  he  became   बेहतर  known for his television roles , playing  the   सीसे  characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith  दिखाएँ  and in the  1986–1995  legal drama  matlock   .
Theresa Penelope `` Terri ''  इरविन  , (  née  Raines ; born July 20 , 1964  )  is  an   ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  -based  ,  American -born naturalist , author , the widow  of  Australian  naturalist  Steve Irwin and  मालिक  of Australia Zoo at  beerwah  , Queensland , Australia .
She co-starred with her husband on The Crocodile Hunter , their  unconventional  television nature  वृत्तचित्र   श्रेणी  along with its  spin-off  series  ,   क्रोक  Files and The Crocodile Hunter Diaries .
She has lived  in  Australia since 1992 , when she married Steve  इरविन  .
Andreas  cellarius   's  illustration  of  the Copernican system , from  the  Harmonia Macrocosmica ( 1660 ) .
Heliocentrism  ,  or heliocentricism  ,  is the astronomical model in which  the   धरती   और  planets revolve around a  अपेक्षाकृत  stationary Sun  at  the center of  the   सौर   प्रणाली  .
the   शब्द  comes  इससे   the  Greek ( helios `` sun  ''  and kentron  ``   बीच  '' ) .
historically  , heliocentrism  थी  opposed to geocentrism  ,   जिससे  placed the Earth at the center .
The notion  कि  the Earth  घूमती  around  the   सूर्य  had been proposed  as  early as the  3rd  century BC by Aristarchus  of   samos  ,  लकिन  Aristarchus 's heliocentrism attracted  छोटी  attention until Copernicus revived and  elaborated  it .
Lucio Russo , however ,  argues   कि  this  is   a   भ्रामक  impression  resulting  from  the  loss of scientific  works  of the Hellenistic Era .
Using  अप्रत्यक्ष  evidence  he   argues   कि  a heliocentric view  थी  expounded in  हिप्पारकस   's  work on gravity .
It was not  जबतक  the 16th century that a  fully  predictive  गणितीय  model of a heliocentric system  थी  presented , by the  पुनर्जागरण  mathematician , astronomer ,  और  Catholic cleric Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland , leading  to  the Copernican Revolution .
in   the  following century  ,  Johannes Kepler elaborated upon and expanded  इस  model to include elliptical  orbits  ,  और   supporting  observations made using a  दूरदर्शी   यहूद   प्रस्तुत  by  गैलीलियो   गैलिली  .
With  the   observations  of  विलियम  Herschel , Friedrich Bessel  ,   और  others  ,  astronomers realized that the sun was not the center of  the  universe and by the  1920s  Edwin Hubble had shown that it was part of a  आकाशगंगा  (  the  Milky Way  )  that was only one of many billions .
Norah Jones (  born   geetali   नोराह  Jones  शंकर   ;   कूच  30 , 1979 ) is  an   अमरीकी   singer-songwriter   ,  pianist  ,  and actress .
She is the daughter of  भारतीय  sitar player  रवि  Shankar and  मुकदमा  Jones .
She  is  also Anoushka Shankar 's  half-sister   .
In 2002  ,  she launched  उसके   सोलो  music career  साथ  the release  of   the  commercially successful  और  critically acclaimed album Come Away  साथ   me   ,  a fusion  of   देश   म्यूज़िक  and pop with elements of  जैज़  which was certified diamond album , selling over  26  million  नक़ल  .
The record earned Jones five  ग्रैमी  Awards , including  the  Album of the  साल  , Record of the Year ,  और  Best New Artist .
Her  subsequent  studio  एल्बम  , Feels  जैसे   घर   ,   released  in  2004   ,  Not Too  लेट  ,  released  in 2007  ,  the  वही  year she made her film  डेब्यू  in  my   ब्लूबेरी  Nights  ,  and her  2009   रिलीज  The Fall all gained Platinum  औकात  , selling over a  लाख  copies  और  were generally  खूब  received by critics .
Jones ' fifth studio album , Little Broken Hearts , was  released  on  अप्रैल  27  ,   2012  .
Jones  रै  won  नौ  Grammy Awards and was 60th  on   बिलबोर्ड  magazine 's  कलाकारों  of  the  2000–2009  दशक  chart .
Throughout  उसके  career  ,  Jones  रै  won numerous  पुरस्कार  and has sold more than  50   लाख  albums worldwide .
Billboard named her the  शीर्ष   जैज़  artist of the 2000–2009 decade .
Not  to   be  confused  साथ  Dimension of  a  physical quantity .
लिये  other uses  ,  see Dimension ( disambiguation  )  .
From left  to  right , the  वर्गाकार  , the cube ,  और  the  tesseract  .
The square  is   bounded  by  1-dimensional  lines  ,  the cube  by  2-dimensional  क्षेत्रों   ,   और   the   tesseract   by  3-dimensional volumes  .
A projection of  the   घन   is  given since it is viewed on a  two-dimensional   स्क्रीन  .
the   वही  applies to  the  tesseract , which additionally  can   तभी  be shown as a projection even  in   three-dimensional  space .
A  आरेख  showing the first four  स्थानिक   आयाम   .
In physics and  गणित  , the dimension of a space  or  object is  informally  defined as the minimum number of coordinates  needed  to specify  कोई  point within it  .
Thus a line  रै   a  dimension  of   एक  because only  एक   निर्देशांक  is needed to specify  a  point on  it  ( for  उदाहरण   ,  the  पाइंट  at 5 on a number  लकीर  ) .
A surface such  as  a  प्लेन   or  the  सतह  of a cylinder or sphere has a  आयाम  of  दो  because  दो  coordinates are needed to specify a  पाइंट  on it ( for  उदाहरण  , to  locate   a   पाइंट  on the surface of a  गोला  you  need   दोनो  its latitude and its longitude )  .
the  inside  of  a  घन  ,  a  cylinder or a sphere is three-dimensional because three coordinates  हैं  needed  to  locate  a  point within  ये   स्पेसेस   .
in   शारीरिक  terms ,  आयाम  refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume  )   और  its position in time ( perceived as  a  scalar dimension along  the  t-axis  )  , as  खूब   as  the spatial  संविधान  of objects within—structures  कि  correlate with  दोनो   कण  and field conceptions  ,  interact  according  to relative  गुण  of  द्रव्यमान  —and are fundamentally  गणितीय  in description  .
These , or other axes  ,  may be  संदर्भित   to  uniquely identify a  पाइंट   or  structure in its  रवैया  and  संबंध  to other objects and  आवृत्ति  .
Physical theories that incorporate  समय   ,  such as general  आपेक्षिकता   ,  are  कहा  to work in 4-dimensional  ``  spacetime ``  ,   (  defined as a Minkowski  स्पेस  ) .
Modern  theories  tend to be `` higher-dimensional  ''  including quantum field and string  theories  .
The  state-space  of quantum mechanics  is   an  infinite-dimensional function  स्पेस  .
The concept of dimension is not restricted to physical objects .
high-dimensional  spaces  occur   in  mathematics  और   the  sciences for many  कारण  , frequently as configuration spaces such as in  लाग्रांजीय  or  हेमिल्टोनीय  mechanics  ;  these are abstract spaces , independent  of  the  शारीरिक  space  we  live in .
fontana  ( ) is a  नगर   of  200,762  निवासियों  in San  bernardino   काउंटी  , California  .
Founded in  1913  , it remained  essentially  rural until World War II  ,  when entrepreneur Henry  J.  Kaiser built a  विशाल   स्टील   मिल   in  the  क्षेत्रफल  .
It is  अभी   a   क्षेत्रीय  hub of  the  trucking industry , with Interstate 10  और   राज्य  Route 210  transecting  the  नगर   इससे  east to west  ,  and Interstate  15  passing diagonally through  इसके  northwestern quadrant .
It is home to the largest of  the  San Bernardino  काउंटी  system libraries , a renovated historic theater , a municipal park , and the Auto Club Speedway  on   the  site of the Kaiser Steel Mill .
Fontana  भी  hosts  the  Fontana Days Half  मैराथन  and 5K run .
This race  is  the fastest half-marathon course  in   the  world .
The U.S. 2012 Census reported that Fontana 's population was 200,762 in  2012  , making  it   the  second most populous city in  सैन   bernardino   काउंटी  county  और   14th  in the state  .
cowboys  Stadium is a stadium with a retractable roof in  आर्लिंगटन  , Texas .
it   serves   as   the  home  of  the National  फ़ुटबॉल  League 's Dallas  cowboys  .
It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium ,  जिससे  opened  in  1971 , and served as  the   cowboys   '  home through the 2008 season .
it   थी  completed  on  May 27 , 2009 .
The stadium seats 85,000 , making  it  the third  largest  stadium in  the   एनएफएल  by seating capacity .
The maximum capacity of the stadium  ,  including standing room  ,  is 105,000 .
the  Party Pass ( open areas  )  sections are behind seats in  प्रत्येक  end zone and on a series of  छह  elevated platforms  कनेक्ट  by stairways .
It has  the  world 's  largest  column-free interior and the fourth largest high definition video  स्क्रीन  , which hangs from 20  यार्ड  line to 20 yard line .
The facility  can  also be used for a  किस्में   of  other activities outside of its  प्रमुख   purpose  ( professional  फ़ुटबॉल  ) such as concerts  ,   बास्केट  games , boxing matches , college  फ़ुटबॉल   और  high school  फ़ुटबॉल   प्रतियोगिताओं  ,  सॉकर   मिलान  ,  और  motocross  दौड़  .
कनाडाई  historians  जबतक   the  1980s tended to  फ़ोकस   on  economic history ,  सहित  labour  इतिहास  .
in   भाग  this is because Canada  रै  had  दूर   कम  political or military conflicts than other societies  .
इस  was especially true in the first half  of   the   बीसवीं  century  जब   आर्थिक  history  थी  overwhelmingly dominant .
Many of  the  most prominent  अंग्रेज़ी  Canadian historians from  इस  period were economic  इतिहासकारों  , such as Harold Innis , Donald Creighton and Arthur R.  M.   निम्नतर
Scholars  of  Canadian history were heirs to  the  traditions that developed  in  Europe and the United  राज्य   ,  but  frameworks  that  worked  well elsewhere often failed in Canada .
The heavily  मार्क्सवादी  influenced  आर्थिक  history  कि  dominates  यूरोपीय  has little relevance  to  most of Canadian history .
A  फ़ोकस  on  क्लास  , urban areas  ,  and industry  fails  to  पता  Canada 's  ग्रामीण   और   संसाधन  based  अर्थव्यवस्था  .
Similarly ,  the  monetarist school that is dominant in  the  United States also  रै  been difficult to transfer  उत्तर  of the border .
The study  of  economic history in Canada became  अत्यधिक  focused on  आर्थिक   भूगोल  , and for many years the dominant school  of  thought has been  the  staples thesis  .
This school of  विचार  bases  the  study of the Canadian economy on  the  study of  प्राकृतिक  resources .
This approach has since  भी   become  used outside of  कनाडा  in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and in  अनेक  developing nations .
पहले  the arrival of  europeans  , the  पहला  Nations of what  होता   become  Canada  था  a large  और  vibrant trade  संजाल  .
Furs , tools ,  सजावटी   वस्तुएं  , and  अन्य  goods  यहूद  often  transported  thousands of kilometres  ,  mostly by canoe throughout the many rivers  और  lakes of  the  region  .
The early European  इतिहास   of  the  कनाडाई  economy is usually  पढ़ाई  through the staples  लेख   जिससे   argues  the Canadian economy developed through the exploitation of  a  series of staples that would be exported to Europe .
carbon-14  , 14C ,  or  radiocarbon , is a radioactive isotope of carbon  साथ  a nucleus containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons .
Its presence in  सशुल्क  materials  is  the  आधार   of  the radiocarbon dating method  pioneered  by Willard Libby and colleagues (  1949  ) to date  पुरातत्व  ,  geological   और   hydrogeological  samples .
Carbon-14 was  खोजा   on  27  फ़रवरी  1940  ,   by  Martin  कामेन  and  sam  Ruben at the  विश्वविद्यालयों   of  California Radiation  प्रयोगशाला  in Berkeley , although its existence had been suggested by Franz Kurie  in  1934  .
There are  तीन   naturally   occurring   isotopes   of  carbon on Earth :  99  % of the  कार्बन  is  carbon-12   ,  1  %  is  carbon-13  , and  carbon-14   occurs  in trace amounts ,  i.e.  , making up about 1 part per  खरब   (  0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the  माहौल  .
The  half-life   of  carbon-14 is 5,730±40 years  .
carbon-14  decays into  nitrogen-14   through  beta decay .
The primary natural source  of  carbon-14 on  धरती  is cosmic ray  कार्रवाई  upon  नाइट्रोजन  in the atmosphere , and  it  is  इसलिए  a cosmogenic nuclide .
However ,  open-air  nuclear  परीक्षण  between 1955–1980  contributed  to this  पूल  .
the   अलग  isotopes  of  carbon  do  not differ appreciably in their chemical properties .
इस  is  प्रयुक्त  in chemical and biological research ,  in  a  तकनीक   पुकारा  carbon labeling  :  carbon-14 atoms  can  be used to replace nonradioactive carbon , in order to trace chemical  और  biochemical reactions  involving   कार्बन   अणु  from  कोई  given organic compound .
Lightning is a highly visible  रूप  of energy transfer
Lightning strikes are electrical discharges on a massive  स्केल  between the atmosphere and an earth-bound object .
वे   ज़्यादातर   originate  in thunderclouds and terminate on the  मैदान  , called Cloud to Ground (  cg  ) lightning .
However ,  वे  may  भी  be initiated  इससे   a   बहुत  tall  grounded   ऑब्जेक्ट  and  पहुँचें   into   the  clouds .
हालांकि  ``  a  lightning strike  ''  is commonly used  to   describe  all lightning , it is rather erroneous and  a   misnomer  , as only about 25 %  of   सब  lightning events worldwide  हैं  CG , the large bulk  of  lightning  कार्यक्रम  are Intracloud  (  IC ) or Cloud to Cloud (  cc  ) , where discharge  तभी  occurs  ऊँची  in  the   माहौल  .
the   वैज्ञानिक   नाम  for the complete process  of   a   सिंगल  lightning event is a  और  it is a very  जटिल   ,  multiple stepped  बातचीत  , which is not completely understood .
Most CG flashes only `` strike  ''   एक  physical location , referred  to  as a termination .
The primary conducting channel , the bright coursing light  तुम  may see  और   कॉल  a  ``  strike '' , is only about 1 inch in diameter , although to our eyes  it  looks  much  larger .
वे  are miles long  ,   upwards  of  tens   of  miles .
And the  संपूर्ण   फ्लैश  ,  lasts  only a few fractions of  a  second  ,  most of which is not visible to human  आँखें   .
Thunder is always produced  by   बिजली  .
Just like lightning , that deceives our  आँखें  , usually looking larger or closer  than  it really  is  ,  the  earth 's atmosphere  और  our brain  's  perception  of  the  बाहर  world , ultimately determines  whether  it is  ``  heard '' or  नहीं  .
Lightning can  नहीं  happen in a  वैक्यूम  devoid of ions , nor can thunder  occur  without molecules to vibrate  .
थंडर   is  a  शारीरिक  absolute for every  सिंगल   फ्लैश  of lightning .
contrary  to popular belief , a  बिजली  strike itself  is  usually not  जिम्मेदार  for multiple deaths or injuries from a single event .
It would be impossible given the natural tendencies of a  फ्लैश  ,  जबतक  people or animals were stacked on  शीर्ष   of  each other  ,  or they were somehow arranged  खड़ा   और  part of the flash channel  .
जब  lightning ignites an available fuel source  और  an explosion occurs , it is  the  shock wave or fire causing the injuries  ,  not the  स्ट्राइक  itself .
Ground Currents  ,  also called  कदम  potential ,  of   an  earth termination is what truly causes  सबसे  injuries or death to humans and  पशु  .
the  near instantaneous rush  of  surface charges  ,   induced   by  the  ओवरहेड   thundercloud   itself   ,  race to  the   स्ट्राइक  point from  सैंकड़ों  to  हज़ारों  of  फीट  away during discharge .
This current , caused during  प्रत्येक   स्ट्रोक   ,  takes the path of  तनिक  resistance , which  may  be  आयन  rich  इंसान  or animal legs , over poorly conducting earth .
This is  क्यों  it  is  best  to  crouch , with feet close together  ,  if ever  caught   in  the open during  a  thunderstorm  .
Unfortunately , most reports  do  not draw  a  distinction  between  the real cause  of  injury or death ,  be  it  the  strike itself , a  resulting   विस्फोट  or fire  ,   or   प्रायः  responsible step  संभावित  .
Peter F. Kilmartin ( born  1962  ) is the current Attorney  सामान्य  of Rhode Island .
Kilmartin is  भी   a  retired  पुलिस  captain and  a  former member of  the   rhode   द्वीप  House of Representatives  .
A couple following  उनके  marriage  in  the Manti Utah  टेम्पल  .
Sealing  is  an  अध्यादेश  ( ritual ) performed in  latter  Day  संतो   मंदिरों  by  a  person holding  the   sealing   प्राधिकार   .
The  purpose   of  this ordinance  is  to seal familiar  संबंध  ,  बनाना  possible the existence  of  family relationships  throughout  eternity  .
LDS teachings  प्लेस  great importance on the  विशिष्ट  authority  जरूरी  to  perform  these  sealings   .
Church  doctrine  teaches that this authority ,  पुकारा  the Priesthood  ,  corresponds  to  that given  to   संत  Peter in .
Sealings are typically  performed  as marriages  or   as  sealing of children to  अभिभावक  .
वे  were performed prior to the death of  जोसेफ  Smith  ,   jr.  ( the main founder of  the  Latter Day  संत  movement ) , and  हैं   फिलहाल   performed   in  The Church of Jesus  मसीह  of  latter-day  Saints .
हालांकि   कुछ  other  denominations   ,  such  as  the Community of Christ , view sealing  as   an   centuries  of  स्मिथ  's practice of plural marriage , some  do   स्टिल   perform  them .
the  2000s , pronounced  ``  two thousands '' ,  थी  a decade that began  on  January 1  ,  2000 , and ended  on  December 31  ,  2009  .
वैश्वीकरण  ,  जिससे  had accelerated after  the  early 1990s fall of  साम्यवादी   ,  continued to be  a  force  in  the 2000s .
The growth of  the  Internet was one of the  प्रधान  contributors  to  globalization during the  दशक  ,  बनाना   it   संभावित  for people to  interact  with  अन्य  people  ,  express ideas  ,  introduce others to different cultures and backgrounds  ,  use  goods  and services  ,  sell and  ख़रीदे   ऑनलाइन  , research and learn  परिचय   बाते   ,  along with  experiencing  the  संसार  without  having  to  छोड़  home .
The  संस्थानों  , linkages  और  technologies  कि  emerged or were redefined earlier would subsequently in  इस  decade benefit many countries , in particular  चीन  and India .
However ,  in   अन्य  parts of the world such progress failed to address ongoing  struggles  with modernity  ,  most notably  characterized   by  the rise of al-Qaeda and  अन्य  Islamist groups  .
The September 11  हमले   in  2001 led  to   the   संयुक्त  States  ,  United Kingdom , Spain ,  कनाडा  and  अन्य  nations invading Afghanistan , as well as  implementing  various anti-terrorist measures at home  और  abroad in  कया  was known as the War on Terror  .
The European  संघ  saw further integration and expansion throughout much of  यूरोपीय   .
The economic growth  of   the   2000s  had  considerable  environmental consequences , raised demand for diminishing  उर्जा  resources , and was  स्टिल   दिखाया  to be vulnerable  as  demonstrated during the Global  वित्तीय  Crisis of the late  2000s  .
The  gunfight  at the O.K . Corral was a  gunfight  that  took  place at about  3:00   p.m.   on   बुधवार  , October 26 ,  1881  , in Tombstone  ,   एरिज़ोना  Territory ,  और  is generally regarded as the most famous  gunfight  in the history of the American Old West .
the  gunfight , believed to  have  lasted  तभी   परिचय   तीस   सेकेंड  , was fought between  the  outlaw Cowboys  बिली  Claiborne  ,   आइक  and Billy Clanton  ,  and Tom  और  Frank McLaury , and the opposing town Marshal Virgil Earp  और   उसके  brothers Assistant Town  मार्शल   मॉर्गन  and temporary lawman Wyatt  ,   aided   by   दस्तावेज़   हॉलिडे  designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil .
Ike  clanton   और  Billy  claiborne  ran from the fight unharmed , but Ike 's brother Billy Clanton  थी   मारे  ,  साथ  with both McLaurys .
Lawmen Virgil  और   मॉर्गन  Earp and  दस्तावेज़  Holliday  यहूद   wounded  .
Only Wyatt Earp came  through   the   लड़ो  unharmed .
The  लड़ो  has come  to  represent a time in American history  जब   the  frontier  थी   खोलें   दायरा   लिये   outlaws  opposed by  विधि  enforcement that was  स्प्रेड   पतला  over vast territories , leaving some  क्षेत्रों  unprotected  .
the  gunfight was not well known to  the  American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake published what has since been determined to  be  a  largely   fictionalized  biography ,  व्याट   earp  : Frontier Marshal  ,  two years after Earp 's  मौत  .
Lake  retold  his story in  a  1946 book that director  जॉन  Ford  विकसित   into   the  movie My Darling Clementine .
After the movie  gunfight   at  the  o.k   .   corral  was  released  in 1957 ,  the   गोलीबारी   आए  to be known by that name .
Since then  ,  the conflict  रै   महरूम   portrayed   साथ  varying degrees of accuracy  in  numerous Western films  और   किताबे   .
Despite its name , the gunfight  दरअसल   occurred   in   a   सीमित  lot six doors  वेस्ट  of  the  rear  प्रवेश  to the  o.k  . Corral on  fremont  Street ,  और  also in the street .
The  दो   opposing  parties  यहूद   initially  only about apart .
परिचय   तीस   गोलियाँ  were fired in thirty seconds .
Ike  clanton   दायर  murder charges  विरूद्ध  the Earps and Doc Holliday but  वे  were eventually exonerated by a local judge after a 30-day preliminary hearing and then again  by  a local grand  जूरी  .
On  दिसम्बर  28 , 1881  ,   वर्जिल  Earp was maimed in an assassination attempt  by  the outlaw  cowboys  , and  on   कूच  18 , 1882 , they assassinated Morgan  earp   .
The  संदिग्धों   सुसज्जित  solid alibis , and newly appointed Deputy U.S  .  Marshal  व्याट  Earp took  matters   into  his  अपना   हैंड्स  during  the  Earp  वेंडेट्टा  Ride  ,  ironically pursued by  काउंटी   शेरिफ  Johnny Behan with warrants for  the   earp  's arrest .
HDMI  (  High-Definition Multimedia Interface ) is  a  compact audio/video interface  लिये  transferring uncompressed video  आंकड़ा  and compressed/uncompressed digital audio data from a HDMI-compliant device  (  `` the  सोर्स  device ''  )  to a compatible computer monitor  ,  video  प्रोजेक्टर  , digital  टेलीविज़न  , or digital audio  यंत्र  .
HDMI is  a  digital replacement for  मौजूदा  analog video standards .
वहीँ   हैं  a  क्रमांक  of HDMI-standard  केबल  connectors  उपलब्धियाँ  , each of  जिससे  can be used for  कोई  uncompressed  tv   or  PC video format , including standard , enhanced , high definition ,  और   3d  video signals  ;  up  to  8 channels  of  compressed  or   uncompressed  digital  ऑडियो   ;  a CEC ( Consumer  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  Control ) connection ;  और   an  Ethernet data connection .
HDMI implements  the   eia/cea-861   मानकों   ,  which  define  video formats and  waveforms  , transport of  संपीडित  , uncompressed , and LPCM audio  ,  auxiliary data ,  और   implementations  of the VESA EDID .
the   cec  allows  hdmi   डिवाइस  to control each other  जब  necessary and allows the user  to  operate  अनेक  devices with one remote control handset .
Because  hdmi   is  electrically compatible  साथ   the  CEA-861 signals  प्रयुक्त  by digital visual interface ( DVI )  ,  no signal conversion is necessary  ,   nor  is there a loss  of   वीडियो  quality when a DVI-to-HDMI adapter  is  used  .
As an  uncompressed   cea-861  connection , HDMI is  स्वतंत्र   of   the  various digital television  मानकों  used by individual  डिवाइस   ,  such  as   atsc  and  dvb  , as these are encapsulations of compressed  एमपीईजी  video streams ( which can be decoded  और  output as an  uncompressed  video stream on HDMI ) .
उत्पादन  of consumer HDMI products started in late  2003  .
in   यूरोपीय  either DVI-HDCP or HDMI  is   शामिल   in   the  HD ready  in-store   labeling   specification  for  tv  sets  लिये  HDTV  ,  formulated by EICTA with SES  अस्त्र  in  2005   .
HDMI  began  to  appear  on consumer  hdtv  camcorders and  डिजिटल  still  कैमरे  in 2006 .
As of January 8 , 2013 , which  is  ten  सालो  after the  रिलीज   of  the first HDMI specification  ,  over  3  billion HDMI devices  have  shipped since the launch of the  hdmi   मानक  .
Bree Van  de  Kamp (  née  Mason ; also known in the series as  ब्री   होज  and Bree Weston ) is a fictional  अक्षर   और  one of the four protagonists  on  the  एबीसी   टेलीविज़न  series  हताश  Housewives .
She  is  played by actress Marcia  क्रॉस  , who has  प्राप्त  multiple  पुरस्कार   और  nominations  लिये  her  portrayal   ,  including an Emmy Award  नामांकन  , three Golden  ग्लोब  Award  nominations  , and two Screen  अभिनेताओं  Guild Awards .
Cross 's  portrayal   of  Bree has been widely  praised  by critics and fans .
Cross originally  auditioned  for  the  role of  मरियम   ऐलिस   यंग   ,  but series  निर्माता   मार्क  Cherry thought she was better suited for  the   भूमिका  of Bree .
दाना  Delany , who eventually was cast as Katherine Mayfair  ,  was originally chosen  लिये   the   भूमिका  but  turned  it down  ,  saying it was too similar to  उसके   भूमिका   in  Pasadena  .
Bree 's  प्रमुख  struggle  throughout  the series has been  उसके  attempts to maintain a perfect life  despite  various  बाधाएं  such as widowhood  ,  divorce ,  और   alcoholism   hindering  her .
She has  महरूम  married  तीन  times ; to Rex Van de  kamp  (  स्टीवन  Culp ) , Orson Hodge  (   काइल  MacLachlan  )  and  ट्रिप   वेस्टन   (   स्कॉट   bakula  ) .
See  भी  the  कस्बा   of   algoma  in  winnebago  County  ,   विस्कॉन्सिन  .
See also Algoma  (   बहुविकल्पी  )  .
Algoma is a city in Kewaunee  काउंटी   in   the  U.S.  राज्य  of Wisconsin .
the  population  थी  3,167 at the  2010   जनसांख्यिकी   .
Algoma is part  of   the   ग्रीन  Bay Metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय   क्षेत्रफल  .
The Hangover  भाग  II is  a  2011 American comedy film produced by Legendary  तस्वीरें  and distributed by  warner   भाईs.  Pictures  .
it  is the sequel to  2009   's  The Hangover and  the  second  फिल्मी  in The Hangover franchise  .
Todd Phillips directed  the   फिल्मी   in  addition to co-authoring the script with  क्रेग  Mazin ,  और  Scot Armstrong  .
The film  सितारों   ब्राडली  Cooper , Ed Helms , Zach Galifianakis ,  केन   jeong   ,  Jeffrey Tambor  ,  Justin  bartha  and Paul Giamatti  .
The Hangover  भाग   ii  tells the  स्टोरी  of  फिल   ,  Stu , Alan , and Doug  as  they travel to Thailand for Stu  's  wedding  .
After the bachelor party in Las Vegas , Stu takes no chances and  opts  for a  सुरक्षित  ,  subdued  pre-wedding brunch .
However  ,  things do not go  as   नियोजित  ,  resulting  in  another  bad hangover with no memories  of  the previous night .
Development of The  hangover  Part II  began  in  अप्रैल   2009   ,   दो  months  पहले  The Hangover  थी  released .
The principal actors  यहूद   डाल  in  कूच   2010  to reprise their roles  इससे  the  पहला  film .
Production began in October  2010  , in Ontario  ,  California , before moving on location  in  Thailand .
The film was  released   on  May 26 , 2011 and , despite receiving mostly negative reviews  इससे  critics , it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy during its theatrical run .
A third film is set for  on   may   24  , 2013 .
यंग  Man Among  गुलाब  , portrait miniature  by  Nicholas Hilliard  ,  1588 ,  v  & A  .
Believed to be the Earl of  एसेक्स
the  Ditchley Portrait  of   एलिज़ाबेथ   i   by  the foreign  मार्कस  Gheeraerts  the  Younger  ,  c.1592
the  English Renaissance was a  सांस्कृतिक  and artistic  गति   in   इंग्लैण्ड  dating  इससे   the   लेट  15th and early 16th centuries  to   the  early 17th century .
It  is   संबद्ध  with  the   pan-european   पुनर्जागरण  that  is  usually regarded as beginning  in  Italy in the late  14th   सदी  .
Like most of northern Europe ,  इंग्लैण्ड  saw little of these developments until  अधिक   than  a century later  .
The beginning of  the   अंग्रेज़ी  Renaissance is often taken  ,   as  a convenience , to be 1485 , when the Battle  of   bosworth   फ़ील्ड  ended the  युद्धों  of the Roses and inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty .
Renaissance style and ideas , however ,  यहूद   slow  in penetrating  इंग्लैण्ड   ,  and the Elizabethan era  in   the   दूसरी   हाफ  of the  16th  century is usually regarded as  the  height of the  अंग्रेज़ी  Renaissance .
Elizabeth Ann  bloomer  Warren  ``  Betty  ''   घाट  ( April 8 , 1918  –  July  8   ,   2011  ) ,  थी  First  महिला   of  the United States from 1974 to 1977 during the presidency  of  her husband Gerald Ford .
as  First Lady  ,  she was active in social policy and created precedents  as   a   नीतियां   क्रियाशील  presidential  बीवी   .
Throughout her husband  's  term in office , she  कायम   ऊँची  approval  दरजा  despite  विपक्ष  from  कुछ   रूढ़िवादी  Republicans who objected to her  अधिक  moderate and liberal  स्थितियाँ  on social issues .
Ford was noted  लिये   उठाने  breast  कर्कट   जागरूकता  following her 1974  mastectomy   और   थी   a   passionate  supporter of  ,   और  activist for , the  बराबर   अधिकारों  Amendment (  era  )  .
Pro-choice  on  abortion and  a   नेता  in the Women 's  गति  ,  वो  gained fame as one of the  सबसे  candid  पहला  ladies in history , commenting on every hot-button  समस्या  of  the  time , including feminism  ,   बराबर   अदा   ,  the ERA ,  sex   ,  drugs ,  गर्भपात  ,  और   गन  control .
She  भी  raised  जागरूकता  of addiction  जब   वो  announced  उसके   long-running  battle  साथ  alcoholism in  the   1970s   .
Following her  श्वेत  House years  ,  she continued to  लॉबी  for  the   era  and remained  क्रियाशील   in   the  feminist movement .
She was the founder ,  और   परोसा  as  the  first  कुर्सी   of   the  board of directors , of  the  Betty Ford Center  लिये  substance abuse and addiction and is a recipient of  the  Congressional Gold Medal ( co-presentation with her husband  ,  Gerald R. Ford , October 21 , 1998  )  and the Presidential Medal of  स्वतंत्रता  ( alone  ,  presented 1991  ,   by  George H.  W.   बुश  )  .
platelet  endothelial cell  adhesion  molecule  (  PECAM-1  )   भी  known as  क्लस्टर  of differentiation 31  (  CD31 ) is a protein that in  इंसान  is encoded  by   the  PECAM1 gene found  on  chromosome 17 .
pecam-1  plays a key  भूमिका   in   निकालना  aged  neutrophils  from the body .
Jessica Rafalowski , Miss Florida USA  2008
जेन्ना  Edwards  ,   मिस   फ्लोरिडा   यूएसए  2007
मेलिसा  Witek , Miss Florida USA 2005
Kristen Berset  ,  Miss Florida USA 2004
The Miss Florida USA competition is  the  pageant that selects  the  representative  लिये  the  राज्य   फ्लोरिडा  in the Miss USA pageant .
जबकि   फ्लोरिडा   रै  been  कामयाब   in   शर्तें  of  runners-up   ,  finalists  और  semi-finalists , the  राज्य   रै  never  जीती  the Miss USA pageant  ,   हालांकि  Cheryl  patton  became Miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss  ब्रह्मांड   .
Florida 's best  परिणाम   यहूद   दौरान   the   mid-1960s  to mid-1970s  .
Their most  हाल  finalist  थी   lissette   गार्सिया  who placed in the top 16 in 2011  .
Two former Miss Florida Teen USA titleholders  have   जीती  this  प्रतियोगिता  , and three titleholders  have  also  competed  at Miss  अमेरिका   .
The current titleholder is Michelle Aguirre of  hialeah   .
Anglo-Saxon  इंग्लैण्ड   refers   to  the period of the history  of  the part  of  Britain that  became  known as  इंग्लैण्ड  , lasting  इससे  the end of  रोमन  occupation  और  establishment of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the 5th  सदी  until the  नॉर्मन  conquest  of  England  in  1066 by William the Conqueror .
Anglo-Saxon  is   a   सामान्य  term  referring  to the Germanic  peoples  who  आए  to Britain during the 5th and 6th  सदियां   ,   सहित   कोण  , Saxons , Frisii ,  और  Jutes .
The  पद  also refers  to   the   भाषा   बोला  at  the  time in England , which  is  now called  बूढ़ा  English , and to  the  culture of  the  era , which has long attracted  लोकप्रिय  and  scholarly   ध्यान  .
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated  by   the   heptarchy  , the kingdoms of Northumbria , Mercia , East Anglia  ,  Essex  ,  Kent , Sussex ,  और  Wessex  .
In terms  of   धर्म  the  kingdoms  followed  anglo-saxon   paganism  during the  जल्दी   काल   ,   लकिन  converted  to  Christianity during  the  7th  सदी  .
paganism  had a final  stronghold  in a period  of  Mercian hegemony during  the   640s  , ending with  the  death of Penda  of  Mercia in 655  .
Facing the threat of Viking  invasions   ,  the  हाउस  of Wessex  became  dominant during the  9th   सदी   ,   अंतर्गत  the rule of Alfred the Great .
During the 10th century  ,   the  individual  kingdoms  unified  अंतर्गत  the rule  of  Wessex into the Kingdom of  इंग्लैण्ड  , which stood  opposed  to the Danelaw , the Viking kingdoms established from the 9th  सदी  in  the  north and  ईस्ट  of  इंग्लैण्ड  .
The Kingdom  of  England fell  in  the Viking invasion from Denmark in  1013  and was ruled by the House of Denmark until 1042 , when the  anglo-saxon  House  of   wessex   थी  restored  .
the   पिछला  Anglo-Saxon  किंग  ,  हेरोल्ड  Godwinson ,  थी  killed  in   1066   at  the Battle of  हास्टिंग्स  .
lighting  a traditional  रेड  brick John Ross  jr  kiln
Smoked  सामन  is  a  preparation  of   सामन  , typically  a  fillet that has  महरूम  cured and hot or cold smoked  .
Due  to  its moderately high  दाम  , smoked salmon is considered  a  delicacy .
हालांकि  the term lox is sometimes applied to smoked salmon ,  वे  are  अलग  products  .
View  of  defibrillator electrode position and placement  .
defibrillation  is a  आम  treatment for life-threatening  हृदय  dysrhythmias  ,  ventricular fibrillation , and pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic  खुराक  of electrical energy to the affected heart with a  यंत्र   पुकारा  a defibrillator .
This depolarizes a critical mass of  the  heart muscle  ,  terminates the dysrhythmia ,  और   allows  normal  sinus  rhythm to be reestablished  by  the  देह   's   प्राकृतिक  pacemaker ,  in  the  sinoatrial  node of the heart .
Defibrillators can  be  external  ,  transvenous  ,  or implanted , depending on the type of device used  or  needed .
Some  बाह्य  units  ,   ज्ञात   as   स्वचालित   बाह्य  defibrillators ( AEDs ) , automate the diagnosis  of  treatable rhythms  ,  meaning  कि  lay responders  or  bystanders are  समर्थ   to  use  उन्हें   सफलतापूर्वक  with  छोटी  ,  or   in  some  मामले  no training at  सब  .
Gabrielle  ``   कोको   ''  Bonheur Chanel ( August 19 , 1883 – January 10  ,   1971  )  थी  a French  फ़ैशन  designer and founder of the Chanel brand .
वो   थी  the only fashion  पंक्तियां   to  appear  on   समय  magazine  's  list of the 100 most influential people of the 20th century .
Along  साथ  Paul Poiret , Chanel was  credited  with liberating women  इससे  the  constraints  of the `` corseted silhouette  ''  and  popularizing  the  स्वीकृति  of a  sportive  , casual  चिक  as the  feminine  standard in the post-  संसार  War I era .
A prolific fashion creator ,  चैनल  's  influence  extended beyond couture clothing .
Her design aesthetic  थी   एहसास  in jewelry , handbags  ,   और  fragrance  .
Her signature scent ,  चैनल  No  .  5 , has become an  iconic  product .
Chanel  थी  known  लिये  her lifelong determination  ,  ambition and  उर्जा  which she  लागू  to  उसके  professional and social life .
She achieved both success as a businesswoman and social prominence  धन्यवाद  to  the  connections she made through her  कार्य  .
These  शामिल   अनेक  artists  और  craftspeople  to  whom she  became   a  patron .
However , Chanel 's highly  प्रतिस्पर्धी   ,  opportunistic personality led  उसके  to make  questionable  life choices which have generated controversy  around  her reputation , particularly her behaviour  दौरान  the  जर्मनी  occupation of France  in  World War II .
Allied Mills  आटा  mill on  the   बैंको  of the Manchester  जलयान  Canal
A  gristmill  ( also : grist mill , corn mill  or  flour mill ) grinds grain into flour  .
The  पद  can refer to both  the  grinding mechanism and the building that holds  it  .
Romania ( ; dated spellings  roumania  and  rumania  ;  )   is   a  country located at the intersection of  सेंट्रल  and Southeastern Europe ,  bordering   on   the   ब्लैक  Sea  .
Romania shares  a   किनारा  with Hungary and Serbia to  the  west , Ukraine  और   moldova  to the northeast  और  east , and  बुल्गारिया  to the south  .
At , Romania is the eighth  largest   देश  of the  यूरोपीय   संघ  by area , and has the seventh largest population of the European Union with more  than  19 million people .
इसके  capital  और  biggest city is Bucharest  ,  the  11th  largest city  in  the EU .
The United Principalities emerged when the  territories  of  moldavia  and Wallachia were united under Prince Alexander  ioan  Cuza  in  1859 .
In 1866 Prince Karl  of  Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was called to  the   सिंहासन  as the Ruling Prince of  the   रोमानियाई  Principate  और  in 1881  he  was  आखिरकार   पहनाया  as King Carol I  the  first monarch of  the  Kingdom of  रोमानिया   .
Independence from the Ottoman  साम्राज्य   थी  declared on 9  may  1877  ,  and was internationally recognized  the   following   साल  .
at  the end of World  युद्ध   i  ,  transylvania  ,  bukovina   और  Bessarabia united with the  किंगडम  of Romania .
World War II  दिया  cause  to   the  rise of a  सैन्य  dictatorship  in   रोमानिया  under fascist General Ion  antonescu  ,  जो  chose to  लड़ो  on the  पक्ष  of the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944 .
बाद  his removal , Romania switched sides in 1944  और  joined the Allies .
by  the end of  the  war , some  formerly   रोमानियाई  northeastern  territories  were occupied by the  सोवियत  Union , with Red  फौज  units  stationed  on Romanian soil  .
In 1947 Romania  forcibly  became a  लोगों  's Republic ( 1947-1965 )  और  a member of the Warsaw Pact .
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu became  सामान्य   सचिव  of the  रोमानियाई   कम्युनिस्ट  Party  ,   और  the  हर्ष  austerity measures , political repression , and  cult  of  व्यक्तित्व   he  implemented  led  to the Socialist Republic of  रोमानिया  ( 1965-1989 )  बनने  the most  stalinist  police state in the  पूर्वी  bloc .
Eventually his authoritarian government  थी   toppled   in  December 1989 during the Romanian Revolution of 1989  .
With  the  fall of the Iron Curtain ,  रोमानिया  began  इसके  transition towards democracy  और  a capitalist market  अर्थव्यवस्था   .
बाद   a   दशक  of post-revolution economic problems and living-standards  मनाही   ,   extensive  reforms  fostered  economic  रिकवरी  .
as   of  2010 , Romania is an upper-middle-income country with a high human development index  .
Romania  joined  NATO on 29  कूच  2004 , and the European  संघ  on  1  January 2007 .
it   is  also a  सदस्य  of the  :  Latin  संघ  , Francophonie  ,  OSCE , WTO , BSEC , United Nations  ,  etc .
आज  , Romania  is  a unitary semi-presidential republic , in which the  कार्यपालिका  branch  consists  of  the  President  और  the  सरकारी  .
``   प्राचीन   ''   redirects   यहाँ  .
For other uses ,  देखिए   प्राचीनता  (  बहुविकल्पी   )  .
The times  पहले  writing  belong   either  to  protohistory  or to prehistory  .
Khafre 's  पिरामिड   (  4th dynasty ) and Great Sphinx  of  Giza ( c. 2500  bc  or perhaps  पहले  )
Ancient  इतिहास  is the study of  the  written past  इससे  the beginning of  अंकित  human history to the Early Middle  आयु  .
the   स्पैन  of recorded  इतिहास  is roughly 5,000  सालो  , with Cuneiform script ,  the  oldest  खोजा  form  of   सुसंगत  writing  ,  from the  protoliterate   काल   around  the 30th century  bc   .
This is the beginning of history  ,  as opposed to prehistory , according to the definition used  by  most historians .
The term  शास्त्रीय   प्राचीनता  is often used to refer to history in  the  Old World from the beginning of  अंकित   यूनानी  history  in  776 BC  (  First  ओलंपियाड  ) .
This roughly  coincides  with the traditional date of  the  founding of  रोम  in 753 BC , the beginning of the history  of   प्राचीन  Rome  ,  and  the  beginning of the Archaic period  in   प्राचीन   यूनानियों   .
Although  the  ending date of ancient history is  विवादित  , some Western scholars use the fall of the Western Roman  साम्राज्य  in 476 AD , the closure  of  the  platonic  Academy  in  529  ad  ,  the   मौत  of the emperor  जुस्तिनियन   i  , the  coming  of Islam or  the  rise  of   शारलेमेन   as   the  end of ancient and Classical European  इतिहास   .
in  India ,  the  period includes the early period of the  मध्य  Kingdoms , and ,  in  China , the  समय  up  to  the  qin  Dynasty is included .
Methylcobalamin  (  shown )  is  a  रूप  of vitamin B12  .
Physically  it   resembles  the  अन्य  forms  of  vitamin B12  ,  occurring as  अंधेरा  red crystals that freely form  cherry-colored   पारदर्शी   समाधान  in water  .
Vitamin B12 ,  विटामिन  B12  or  vitamin  b-12  , also called cobalamin  ,  is a  water-soluble  vitamin with a key role  in  the  सामान्य  functioning  of   the  brain  और   बेचैन  system ,  और  for  the  formation of blood .
It is  एक   of  the  आठ  B  विटामिन  .
It is normally involved  in  the metabolism of every cell of the  इंसान  body  ,  especially affecting  डीएनए  synthesis and  विनियमन  , but  भी  fatty  एसिड  synthesis and energy production  .
Neither  fungi  ,  पौधे  , nor animals are capable of  producing  vitamin B12 .
Only bacteria and  आर्किया  have  the  enzymes required  लिये  its synthesis , although  अनेक  foods are a  प्राकृतिक  source of B12 because of bacterial  symbiosis  .
the   विटामिन  is the  largest  and  सबसे  structurally  जटिल   विटामिन  and  can  be produced industrially only through bacterial  fermentation-synthesis   .
Vitamin B12 consists  of  a class of chemically related  यौगिकों  ( vitamers  )   ,  all of which have  विटामिन  activity  .
It contains the biochemically rare element cobalt .
Biosynthesis of the basic  ढांचा   of  the vitamin is  संपन्नता  only by bacteria ( which  प्रायः  produce hydroxocobalamin ) , but conversion between  अलग  forms of the  विटामिन  can be accomplished  in  the  इंसान  body .
A common  semi-synthetic  form of  the   विटामिन  , cyanocobalamin  ,  does not occur  in  nature , but is produced  इससे  bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then  प्रयुक्त   in  many pharmaceuticals and supplements , and  as  a food  योगात्मक  ,  क्युकी  of  इसके  stability  और  lower production cost .
in  the body it is converted to the human physiological forms  methylcobalamin   और   adenosylcobalamin  ,  leaving  behind the cyanide , albeit  in  minimal concentration  .
More recently , hydroxocobalamin , methylcobalamin  ,   और  adenosylcobalamin can be  मिला  in  अधिक  expensive  pharmacological  products  और  food supplements .
The extra utility of these is  फिलहाल  debated .
विटामिन  B12  थी   खोजा  from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia , which is  an   असंक्राम्य   बीमारी  in  जिससे  parietal cells of the stomach  जिम्मेदार  for  secreting  intrinsic factor are destroyed .
Intrinsic factor is  निर्णायक  for the normal absorption of  b12   ,  so  a  lack of  मूलभूत   फ़ैक्टर  , as seen in pernicious anemia , causes  a  vitamin  b12  deficiency .
Many other  subtler   kinds  of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical  प्रभाव  have since been  elucidated  .
The  रोमन  Empire  (  ) was  the  post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization  ,  characterised by an  निरंकुश   रूप   of  government and large  territorial  holdings around the Mediterranean  in   यूरोपीय  , Africa  ,   और  Asia .
The 500-year-old Roman Republic , which  preceded  it  ,  had been  destabilized  through a series  of  civil  युद्धों  .
Several  कार्यक्रम  marked  the  transition  इससे   गणतंत्र   to  Empire , including Julius Caesar  's  appointment as perpetual dictator (  44  BC )  ;   the  Battle of Actium ( 31 BC )  ;  and  the  granting  of  the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate  (  27  bc  ) .
The  पहला   दो  centuries  of  the Empire were a  काल  of unprecedented stability and  समृद्धि  known as  the  Pax Romana (  ``  Roman  सलाम  '' ) .
It  पहुँचे  its  महानतम   expanse  during the reign  of  Trajan ( 98–117 AD  )  .
In the  3rd   सदी  , the Empire underwent  a  crisis  कि  threatened its  अस्तित्व  ,  लकिन  was reunified and stabilized under  the  emperors  aurelian  and Diocletian  .
ईसाइयों   रोज़   to  power in the 4th century , during which time a system  of   डुअल   नियम  was developed in the Latin West and Greek  ईस्ट  .
After the collapse  of  central government in the West in  the  5th century ,  the  eastern half  जारी  as  कया  would  बाद   be  known  as  the Byzantine Empire  .
Because of the  साम्राज्य  's vast extent and  long  endurance  ,   the  institutions and  संस्कृति   of   रोम  had a profound  और   स्थायी  influence  on  the  विकास  of  भाषा  , religion , architecture ,  दर्शनशास्त्र  , law , and forms  of  government  in  the  territory  it  governed   ,  particularly  यूरोपीय  ,  और   by  means of  यूरोपीय  expansionism throughout the  आधुनिक  world .
Total body surface area (  tbsa  ) is an assessment measure of burns of the  स्किन  .
In  वयस्कों  , the  ``  rule  of  nines '' is used  to  determine  the  total percentage of area burned for  प्रत्येक  major section of the body .
in   कुछ  cases ,  the  burns may cover more than one body part  ,  or may not fully cover  ऐसे   a  part ; in these cases  ,   burns  are  measured   by  using the casualty 's palm as a reference  पाइंट   लिये  1  %  of  the  body  .
For  children   और   infants  , the Lund-Browder chart  is   प्रयुक्त  to assess the burned body surface area .
अलग  percentages are used because the ratio of  the  combined surface area of the head and neck to the surface  क्षेत्रफल   of  the limbs is typically larger in  children   than  that of  an  adult  .
Typical  मान  for  आम   समूह   of  humans follow  .
( Due to rounding , values  may  not add to  100  % .  )
संसार  infant mortality rates by five years averages  in  2008 .
This is  a  list of  देशों  by infant mortality rate .
Jonah Kirsten  sorrentino  (  born   जून  26 , 1975 ) ,  बेहतर  known by his  स्टेज  name KJ-52  ,  is a Christian  rapper  from  tampa  ,  फ्लोरिडा   .
The `` KJ '' part of  उसके  name refers  to  his  बूढ़ा   रैप   alias  , `` King  J.  Mac , '' a name which  he  later  वर्णित  in  एक  of his  podcasts  as  ``  horribly cheesy .  ''
``  52  ''  , which is pronounced ``  पाँच  two '' , not  ``  fifty-two '' , is  a   सन्दर्भ  to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the  multitude  with  पाँच  loaves and two fish ,  जिससे  is also sung about in his song ``  धक्का   up  '' from The Yearbook and in  the  `` KJ  पाँच  Two '' on It 's Pronounced 'Five Two .
He  थी   awarded  the  rap/hip  Hop Recorded Song  of   the  Year  लिये  `` Never Look Away  ''  and Rap/Hip  हॉप  Album of the Year at the GMA  dove  Awards of  2007  .
On July 28 ,  2009   ,   kj-52  released `` End of  my  Rope '' , which  is   the   पहला  single for  उसके   एल्बम  Five-Two Television .
उसके   सोंग  `` Dear Slim  ''  is  आधारित   on   एमिनेम   's   सोंग   ``   स्टेन  ``  और  is a sort of personal  संदेश  from KJ-52 to Eminem .
The  उपाधि  symbol (  °  ) is a typographical  प्रतीक   कि   is   प्रयुक्त  ,  among   अन्य   बाते   ,   to   represent   डिग्री  of  चाप  ( e.g . in  भौगोलिक  coordinate  प्रणालियों   )  , hours ( in  the   चिकित्सा  field )  ,  or  डिग्री  of temperature .
The symbol  consists  of a small raised circle , historically  a  zero  glyph  .
In  युनिकोड  it  is  encoded  at  .
This is  a  list of roots , suffixes , and  prefixes  used  in  medical terminology , their meanings  ,  and their etymology  .
There are a few rules when  using  medical  जड़ें  .
firstly  , prefixes and suffixes  ,  primarily in Greek , but also  in  Latin , have a droppable -o- .
As a general rule  ,  this -o- almost always  अधिनियमों   as   a   joint-stem  to  कनेक्ट   दो  consonantal roots , e.g . arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology .
But  generally   ,  the -o-  is   dropped  when connecting to a vowel-stem  ;   e.g  . arthr- + itis = arthritis , instead of  arthr-o-itis   .
Secondly , medical  जड़ें  generally  go  together  according  to language : Greek  prefixes  go with Greek suffixes  और  Latin prefixes  साथ  Latin  प्रत्यय   .
हालांकि  international scientific  शब्दावली  is not stringent about  segregating   combining   फ़ॉर्म   of  different  भाषाएं  ,  it  is  advisable  when coining new  शब्द  not to mix different  lingual   जड़ें   .
Stomach cancer , or  gastric  cancer , refers to  कर्कट  arising from any part of  the  stomach  .
Stomach  कर्कट  causes about 800,000 deaths  विश्वव्यापी  per year .
prognosis  is  ग़रीब   (  5-year  अस्तित्व   <  5 to  15  %  )  because most  मरीजों  present  साथ  advanced  बीमारी   .
Sara Lynn Evans ( born  फ़रवरी   5   ,   1971  )  is  an American country singer  और   songwriter  .
For her  संपूर्ण   करियर  , she  रै  been signed to  आरसीए  Records Nashville .
Evans  '  debut  ,  Three  मदारी   और   the  Truth  ,  did not produce a Top 40 hit  on  the  hot   देश  Songs charts .
वो   followed   इस  up with  no  Place  कि  Far  (  1998 ) ,  born   to   मक्खी  ( 2000 ) ,  बेचैन   (   2003  ) and Real Fine Place ( 2005  )   .
no  Place That  दूर   प्राप्त  a  सुनहरा  certification  इससे  the  रिकॉर्डिंग  Industry Association of America ( RIAA  )  , while the  अन्य  three albums  सब   यहूद  certified  प्लेटिनम  .
ये  discs  शामिल  the number  1   singles   ``  No  प्लेस  That Far  ``   ,  ``  born  to Fly  ``  , ``  suds  in  the  Bucket `` and `` A  रियल  Fine Place  to  Start `` , plus the top 10  हिट्स  ``  i  Could  नहीं  Ask for More `` ( a  कवर  of the Edwin McCain  सोंग   )  , `` I Keep Looking ``  ,  `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin  '  `` .
Her 2007  महानतम  Hits included the  शीर्ष  15 hits  ``  You 'll  सदा   be  My Baby `` and  ``  As If `` .
Stronger  (  2011  )  included  उसके  fifth  क्रमांक  1 hit , `` A Little Bit Stronger ``  ,   जिससे   थी  co-written  by   हिलेरी  Scott of Lady Antebellum .
Evans has also  जीती  one award  प्रत्येक  from Billboard  ,  the Academy of Country  म्यूज़िक  ,  देश  Music  संघ  , Broadcast  म्यूज़िक  Incorporated (  बीएमआई   )   और  a Dove Award  .
The world 's principal religions and spiritual  परंपराओं  may be classified  into  a small number of major groups , although this is  by  no  अर्थात्  a  वर्दी   अभ्यास  .
This  सिद्धान्त   began   in   the   18th  century with the  लक्ष्य   of  recognizing the relative  स्तर  of civility in  समाजों   .
Berliners watching a C-54 land at Tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The Berlin blockade ( 24  जून  1948  –  12 May 1949 ) was  एक  of the first  प्रमुख  international crises of the Cold War .
During the multinational occupation  of  post–World War II Germany  ,   the  Soviet Union  अवरोधित  the Western Allies ' railway  ,   सड़क  , and canal access  to  the sectors of Berlin under  अलाइड  control .
उनके  aim was  to  force  the  western  शक्तियां   to  allow the Soviet zone to start  supplying  Berlin  साथ  food  और   ईंधन  , thereby giving  the  Soviets  व्यावहारिक  control over  the  entire  नगर  .
In response  ,  the Western  allies  organized the  बर्लिन  airlift  to  carry  आपूर्तियाँ  to the people in West Berlin  .
Aircrews  इससे   the  United States Air Force , the British Royal  एयर  Force , the Royal  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  Air Force ,  the  Royal Canadian Air Force  ,  the  royal  New  जीलैंड  Air Force  ,  and the  दक्षिण  African  एयर   फ़ोर्स  flew  over  200,000  फ़्लाइट  in one  साल  , providing  up   to  4700 tons of daily necessities such as  ईंधन  and food to the  berliners  .
By  the  spring of 1949 , the effort  थी  clearly succeeding and , by April  ,  the airlift  थी  delivering more cargo than had  previously   महरूम   transported  into the  नगर   by   रेल  .
The success of the  बर्लिन  Airlift  brought  embarrassment  to   the  Soviets who  था  refused  to  believe it  could  make a  अंतर   .
The  नाकेबंदी  was lifted  in  May 1949 and  resulted  in the creation  of  two separate German  राज्य  .
The  संघीय   गणतंत्र  of Germany ( West Germany )  और  the  जर्मनी   लोकतांत्रिक   गणतंत्र  ( East  जर्मनी  ) split up  बर्लिन  .
In remembrance of the  एयरलिफ्ट  , three airports in the former  पश्चिमी   zones   of   the  city  परोसा  as  the   प्राथमिक  gateways to Germany  लिये  another fifty  सालो  .
The  यूरोपियन  sign ; logotype and handwritten .
The euro sign is the currency sign used for the  यूरोपियन  , the  आधिकारिक   करेंसी  of  the  Eurozone in the  यूरोपीय  Union (  eu   )  .
The design was presented to  the  public  by  the European Commission on 12 December 1996 .
the  international three-letter code  (  according to ISO standard ISO 4217  )  for  the  euro is EUR .
In Unicode it is  एनकोडेड  at  .
In English , the sign precedes the value .
In some  styleguides  , but not  अन्य   ,   the  euro sign is unspaced  .
Mate  (  , ;  sometimes  also spelled  maté  ) , also  ज्ञात   as  chimarrão ( ) or  cimarrón  ( ) , is a traditional South American infused drink , particularly in  अर्जेंटीना   ,  Uruguay  ,   पैराग्वे   और   the  southern  राज्य  of  ब्राज़ील  and to a lesser degree in south of  चिली   ,  the  bolivian  Chaco  ,  Syria and Lebanon .
It  is  prepared from steeping dried leaves of  yerba  mate (  llex  paraguariensis  ,  known in Portuguese as  erva-mate  ) in hot  जल  .
Mate is  परोसा  with  a  metal  स्ट्रॉ  from  a   साझा   खोखला   calabash  gourd  .
The straw  is  called a  bombilla  in  कुछ   लैटिन  American countries , a bomba in Portuguese , and a  bombija  or , more generally  ,  a masassa (  प्रकार   of  straw ) in Arabic .
The  स्ट्रॉ   is   traditionally   बना  of  चांदी  .
Modern  ,  commercially available straws  हैं   typically  made of nickel silver  ,  called Alpaca ;  बेदाग   स्टील  , or hollow-stemmed cane  .
The gourd is known as a  mate  or a  guampa   ;  while in Brazil , it  रै  the specific  नाम  of cuia  ,  or  भी   cabaça  ( the name  लिये  Indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in other regions  of   ब्राज़ील  ,  स्टिल   प्रयुक्त  for general food  और  drink  in   रिमोट  regions )  .
Even if  the  water is supplied from a modern thermos  ,  the  infusion   is  traditionally drunk from  mates  or cuias  .
As with other brewed  herbs   ,  yerba mate leaves are dried  ,   कटा  ,  और  ground  into   a  powdery mixture called yerba .
The  bombilla  acts as  दोनो  a straw  और   a  sieve  .
The submerged  समाप्त  is  flared  ,  साथ  small holes  or   स्लॉट   कि  allow the brewed liquid  in  , but block the chunky matter that  makes   up  much  of  the mixture  .
A modern bombilla design uses  a   सीधा  tube with holes  ,   or  spring sleeve to  अधिनियम  as  a  sieve .
``   tea-bag  '' type  infusions  of mate  (   mate  cocido  )  have been on  the   मार्केट  in Argentina , Paraguay and  उरुग्वे   लिये  many years under such  व्यापार  names as  ``  Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina , ``  pajarito  '' and `` Kurupí '' in Paraguay ,  और  in Brazil under the name `` Mate Leão ''  .
इस  is considered a completely different  पेय  .
It is  never  drunk from  cuias  or  पुकारा   chimarrão  , nor  is  it associated with  the  gaucho/gaúcho culture  .
The automotive industry is a  पद  that  कवर   a   चौड़ी  range of companies  और   संगठनों  involved  in   the   डिज़ाइन   ,   विकास   ,  manufacture , marketing , and  selling  of  मोटर  vehicles  ,  towed vehicles ,  मोटरसाइकिल  and  mopeds   .
It  is  one of the  संसार   's  most important economic sectors by revenue .
The term automotive industry usually does not  शामिल   उद्योग   समर्पित  to the  मेंटेनेंस  of automobiles following delivery to  the   end-user  , such  as  repair shops  और  motor fuel filling stations .
the   पद   ऑटोमोटिव  was created from Greek  autos  ( self )  ,  and  लैटिन  motivus ( of  गति  ) to represent any form of self-powered vehicle .
इस  term was  प्रस्तावित  by SAE member Elmer Sperry  .
David Michael  ``  Dave '' Bautista  ,   jr.  (  born   जनवरी   18  , 1969 )  ,  is an American mixed  martial  artist , bodybuilder  ,  actor ,  और   पूर्व  professional wrestler  बेहतरीन  known for his time  in  World Wrestling Entertainment  स्पर्धा  under the ring  नाम  Batista .
In WWE  ,  he became a six-time world champion , winning the  संसार   हेवीवेट  Championship four times , and the WWE Championship two times .
He  is  the longest-reigning World Heavyweight  चैंपियन  in WWE history .
In  जोड  to  ये   championships  ,  बतिस्ता  has won the World Tag Team Championship three times  (   twice  with Ric Flair  और  once with John  सीना  ) and the  डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई  Tag Team  चैंपियनशिप  once (  साथ  Rey  मिस्टीरियो  )  .
Batista was also  the  winner of the 2005 Royal Rumble match and went  on   to  headline WrestleMania 21  ,   एक   of  the top five highest-grossing pay-per-view  कार्यक्रम  in pro  कुश्ती  history  .
After trying out  at  World Championship Wrestling  's  Power  संयंत्र   ,  Batista signed a contract with the WWF in  2000  and was sent  to  its  developmental   territory   ,   ओहियो  Valley Wrestling  (   ovw   )  , where  he  won the OVW Heavyweight Championship .
In August  2012  ,  bautista  signed a contract  साथ  Classic  entertainment   &  Sports to fight  in   मिश्रित  martial  कला  .
He won his  mma   डेब्यू   on  October 6 , 2012 , defeating Vince Lucero via TKO  in  the  पहला  round  .
Henry  T.   थामस  Sampson , Jr. ( born  in  Jackson ,  मिसिसिपी  in  1934  )  is  an African-American inventor .
He  ग्रैजुएट  from high school in  1951  from Lanier  ऊँची  School in Jackson  ,   मिसिसिपी  .
He  तब   attended  Morehouse College  लिये  a  युगल  of  सालो   पहले   transferring  to Purdue  विश्वविद्यालयों   जहाँ   he  became a member of  the  Omega  psi  Phi fraternity  .
He  प्राप्त  a  स्नातक   's  degree in  विज्ञान  from Purdue  विश्वविद्यालयों  in 1956 .
He  ग्रैजुएट  with  an  MS degree  in   अभियान्त्रिकी  from the University  of  California ,  लॉस  Angeles in  1961  .
sampson   भी  received his MS in  नाभिकीय  Engineering from  the   विश्वविद्यालयों  of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in  1965   ,  and  उसके   phd  in 1967 .
He  is  the first  अफ़्रीकी  American  to   earn  a  ph.d.in   नाभिकीय   अभियान्त्रिकी  in the United  राज्य  .
Some of his accomplishments include being  a  member of the United States  नेवी  between  the  years 1962 and 1964 and  कमाई   an  Atomic Energy  आयोग   सम्मान  between 1964 and 1967 .
Later he was awarded  the   ब्लैक  Image Award from Aerospace Corporation in  1982  .
He was  awarded  the Blacks in Engineering , Applied Science Award , and prize for education , by  the  Los Angeles Council of Black  पेशेवर  Engineers  in   1983   .
In  जून  2007 , Sampson was married  to  Laura Howzell  यंग  in St. Thomas , U.S. Virgin Islands .
young-sampson  is a  प्राध्यापक  in the  कॉलेज  of Education  at   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  State University San  bernardino  .
रॉबर्ट  Lane  गिब्स   (  born March  29  , 1971 ) is  a  senior  अभियान  adviser for  us   अध्यक्ष   बराक  Obama .
Previously , he  थी   the  28th White  हाउस   दबायें  Secretary  .
Gibbs was  the  communications director for then- U.S  .  Senator Obama and his 2008 presidential campaign .
Gibbs , who has worked  साथ   ओबामा  since 2004 , was press secretary  of  John Kerry 's  2004   अध्यक्षीय   अभियान  and has  previously  specialized in  सीनेट  campaigns  ,  having served as communications director for the  लोकतांत्रिक  Senatorial  अभियान  Committee and for four  व्यक्तिगत  Senate  अभियान   ,   सहित   those   of  Obama in  2004  and Fritz  hollings  in 1998 .
गिब्स   थी  also the press secretary of  प्रतिनिधि   bob  Etheridge .
on  November  22  , 2008  ,   गिब्स  was announced as  the  press secretary of the Obama administration  .
He assumed the role  of  press secretary  on   जनवरी  20 ,  2009  , and gave his  पहला  official briefing  on  January 22 .
On  जनवरी  5 , 2011 ,  गिब्स  announced  कि  he would leave the White  हाउस  to become  an  outside  adviser  to the  प्रशासन   .
He left on February 11 , 2011  .
On February 12 , 2013  ,  it  थी  announced  कि   गिब्स  had been  नियुक्त  as a contributor for  cable-news   चैनल  MSNBC  .
उसके   पहला  appearance  थी  on  the   वही   रात्रि  prior to the 2013  राज्य  Of  the  Union  पता   .
अरमांडो  Pérez (  born  January 15  ,  1981 ) , better  ज्ञात  by  उसके  stage name Pitbull ,  is  an American  rapper  , songwriter  ,   और   रिकार्ड  producer .
His first  अंकित   प्रदर्शन  was from the Lil  jon  album Kings of Crunk in  2002  .
in   2004  , he released his debut  एल्बम   titled   m.i.a.m.i  . ( short for Money Is  a  Major  समस्या  ) under TVT  रिकॉर्ड  .
Since then , he  रै   released  three  अन्य  albums under  the  label : El Mariel  in   2006  , The Boatlift in 2007 , and  ग्रह  Pit  in  2011 .
He  released   rebelution   in  2009 , which  शामिल  singles `` I Know  तुम  Want Me ( Calle Ocho ) ``  और  `` Krazy `` .
The latter peaked at No . 30 on the Hot 100 and  no   .   11  on  the  Hot Rap Tracks charts while `` I Know You Want  me   ''  peaked  at   no  . 2  on  the Hot  100  and peaked  भीतर  the top  टेन   धब्बे   of   चार्ट  in the UK  ,   कनाडा   ,   इटली  , and the Netherlands  .
The song reached No . 1 in  फ़्रांस  and  the  European Hot 100 on the week  समाप्ति  August  29  ,  2009   according   to  Billboard magazine  .
He later signed  साथ  Polo Grounds Music through  सोनी  Music and  निर्मित  his own label  mr.   305   inc   .
Another  सिंगल   इससे   rebelution   थी   ``   होटल  Room  सेवा  `` , which peaked at No . 8  on   the  Hot  100  .
Rebelution went on  to   बेचें  over  7.5  million worldwide digital singles and  एल्बम   संयुक्त  .
nevertheless   ,  he  dropped  a smash  पुकारा  ``  दे  Me  सबकुछ  ''  जिससे  reached # 1 worldwide , and featured artists  ne-yo  , Nayer ,  और  Afrojack .
he  has  भी  performed as a  प्रदर्शित  artist in the remixes of many  अन्य  hit  गीतों  , like  tik   टोक  , Scream &  चिल्लाओ  ,  lo  Hecho  esta  Hecho , Bad , Papi ,  ईंट  , How Low , Tonight ( I  'm   lovin   '  You ) ,  वीडियो   फोन   ,   over  To You  अभी  and  bumpy   सवारी  .
Pérez is  भी  the host of his  अपना  Spanish-language  कार्यक्रम  on the cable channel Mun2  titled  La Esquina  (  Spanish for The Corner ) .
In 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'Diddy  '  Combs co-founded Bad Boy Latino  ,  a subsidiary of Combs ' Bad Boy Records label  .
it  primarily  focuses   on  Latin hip hop , Latin soul  ,   लैटिन  pop  और  other Tropical  म्यूज़िक  ,  और  has offices in New  यॉर्क  and  मियामी   ,  Florida .
साथ  with co-founding it , Pérez currently  heads  the  a  & R division  of  the label .
Pérez has become a product endorser  ,  representing alongside Drake , Rihanna ,  और  Trey  songz  the “So  kodak”  campaign  लिये  the  कोडक   ब्रांड  and embarking  on  a  साझेदारी  with  the  soft  पेय  giant Dr Pepper as part of the campaign “ Vida 23  ”  for which he  अंकित  the song specifically featured on  उसके  album Armando .
pitbull  also announced he has  become   the   प्रवक्ता  for Voli Vodka , in which  he  holds  a  majority  इक्विटी  stake  ,   और   budweiser   रै  chosen Pitbull  to  promote  इसके  Bud  लाइट  line of beer .
the  commercials currently  हाइलाइट  Pitbull dancing and gyrating on  स्टेज  holding  up  a bottle of Bud Light .
Pitbull  रै  also purchased an equity stake in  मियामी  Subs Pizza  और   ग्रिल  .
Halloween  or   hallowe'en  ( a contraction  of  ``  सब  Hallows ' Evening  ``  ) , also known  as  All Hallows  '  Eve  ,   is  a yearly  जश्न  observed in a number of countries on October 31 ,  the  eve of  the  Western Christian feast of All Hallows  (  or  सब  Saints  )  and the  दिन  initiating the triduum  of  Hallowmas .
According to many scholars , All  hallows  ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally  बहकावे  by western European harvest festivals ,  और   त्यौहार   of  the  मुर्दे  with possible pagan  जड़ें   ,   विशेषकर   the  Celtic Samhain .
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently  of   samhain  and has solely Christian roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities  शामिल   trick-or-treating   (  also known as  ``  guising `` )  ,  attending  वेशभूषा   पार्टियों  , carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns  ,  lighting bonfires ,  ठहराना   bobbing  , visiting  haunted   आकर्षण  , playing pranks  ,   telling  scary  कहानियां  , and  watching  horror films .
स्वतंत्रता  of speech is the  राजनैतिक  right to  communicate  one 's  राय   और  ideas using one  's  body and property to anyone  जो   is  willing to  प्राप्त  them  .
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously , but includes any act  of  seeking ,  receiving   और  imparting information  or  ideas  ,  regardless of the  मीडियम  used .
in  practice , the right to  स्वतंत्रता  of speech  is  not absolute in any  देश  and  the  right is  commonly   विषय  to limitations ,  as   साथ   मानहानि  , slander , obscenity , sedition  (  including ,  लिये  example inciting ethnic hatred ) , copyright violation  ,  revelation  of  information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom of expression  is  recognized as a human right  अंतर्गत  Article  19  of the Universal Declaration  of  Human Rights and recognized in international human rights  विधि   in  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR )  .
Article 19 of the  iccpr  states that  ``  [  e  ] veryone shall have the right to hold  राय   बगैर  interference '' and ``  everyone   shall   have  the right to  स्वतंत्रता   of  expression ; this  सही  shall include freedom  to  seek , receive and impart  सूचना  and ideas  of  all kinds  ,  regardless of frontiers , either orally , in writing or in print ,  in   the  form of  आर्ट  ,  or  through  कोई  other media of his choice  ''  .
Article  19   goes  on to say that  the  exercise  of   ये   अधिकारों  carries  ``   खास   कर्तव्य   और   जिम्मेदारियों  `` and may ``  इसलिए  be subject  to  certain restrictions '' when  जरुरी  `` [ f ] or  आदर  of the rights or reputation  of  others ''  or  `` [ f ] or the  सुरक्षा  of national security or  of   पब्लिक  order ( order public  )  ,  or  of public  स्वास्थ्य   or  morals ''  .
Freedom of  वाक  may be legally curtailed in some  धार्मिक  legal systems  और  in secular jurisdictions where  it  is found to  कारण   धार्मिक  offense  ,  such  as   the   अंग्रेजों   जातिगत  and Religious Hatred  अधिनियम  2006 .
सिडनी  Harbour from  the   एयर  , showing the Opera House , the CBD , Circular  quay  , the Bridge ,  the   parramatta  River ,  उत्तर  Sydney  और   kirribilli  in the  अग्रभूमि
the  Sydney Harbour Bridge  is  a steel through arch bridge  आरपार  Sydney Harbour that carries rail ,  vehicular   ,   सायकिल   और   पैदल  traffic  between  the  सिडनी  central  कारोबार  district  (  CBD ) and the North Shore  .
the  dramatic view of the bridge  ,  the  harbour   ,  and  the   आसपास  Sydney Opera  हाउस   is  an iconic image  of   सिडनी  , New  दक्षिण  Wales  ,   और  Australia .
The bridge is  nicknamed  `` The Coathanger  ''  because of its  arch-based  design .
अंतर्गत   the   दिशानिर्देश   of  Dr J.J.C . Bradfield of  the  NSW  विभाग  of Public Works  ,  the bridge  थी  designed and built by British firm Dorman Long and Co  ltd  of  middlesbrough  and opened in  1932   .
The bridge 's design  थी  influenced by  the   नरक  Gate Bridge  in   नई  York .
It was the  संसार  's widest long-span bridge , at  48.8  meters (  160  feet ) wide ,  जबतक  construction  of  the  नई   बंदरगाहों  Mann Bridge  in  Vancouver  .
It  is  also the fifth longest spanning-arch  सेतु  in the  संसार  , and  it  is the  tallest  steel  मेहराब  bridge , measuring  इससे  top to water  स्तर  .
Until  1967  the  harbour  Bridge was Sydney 's tallest structure  .
The  हवाई  hotspot is a volcanic hotspot located near the namesake Hawaiian Islands ,  in  the northern Pacific Ocean  .
One of the most  well-known  and  heavily  studied  हॉटस्पॉट  in the  संसार   ,  the Hawaii plume is responsible for the creation  of  the Hawaiian –  सम्राट   seamount   कड़ी   ,  an over 5,800 kilometres  (  3,600 mi  )  long chain  of  volcanoes  ,  four  of  which are active , two of  जिससे  are dormant ,  और  more than 123 of  जिससे  are extinct , many having since been ground beneath the waves by erosion as seamounts and  atolls  .
The chain extends  इससे   दक्षिण  of  the  island  of  Hawaii to the edge  of  the Aleutian Trench , near  the  eastern edge of  रूस   .
While most volcanoes  हैं  created by geological activity  at  tectonic  थाली   सीमाएँ   ,  the Hawaii hotspot  is  located far from nearby  थाली   सीमाएँ  ;  the   क्लासिक  hotspot theory , first  प्रस्तावित  in  1963  by  जॉन  Tuzo  विल्सन  , proposes that a  सिंगल   ,  fixed  mantle   plume  builds volcanoes that then  ,  cut off  इससे  their source  by   the  movement of the  प्रशांत  Plate  ,  become increasingly inactive  और   आखिरकार  erode below sea level over millions of years  .
According  to  this theory  ,  the nearly 60°  बेंड   separating   the  Emperor and  हवाई   खण्ड  of the chain was caused  by  a sudden shift in the movement of the Pacific  थाली  .
In 2003 , fresh investigations  of   इस  irregularity led  to  the proposal of a mobile  हॉटस्पॉट  theory  ,   suggesting  that hotspots are  मोबाईल   ,  not fixed ,  और  that the 47  लाख   साल  old bend was caused  by   a   शिफ़्ट  in  the   हॉटस्पॉट  's motion  बल्कि  than the plate 's .
Ancient Hawaiians  यहूद  the first to recognize  the  increasing  आयु   और   weathered  state of the volcanoes to the north  as   वे  progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands .
the  volatile state of the Hawaiian volcanoes and  उनके  constant battle with  the  sea was  a  major  तत्व   in  Hawaiian mythology , embodied in Pele , the deity of volcanoes .
After the  आगमन  of Europeans on the  द्वीप   ,  in 1880-1881 James Dwight  दाना  directed the first formal  geological  study of  the  hotspot 's  volcanics   ,   confirming  the relationship long observed  by   the   natives   .
1912  marked the  founding  of the  हवाई   ज्वालामुखी   वेधशाला  by volcanologist  थामस  Jaggar , initiating continuous  वैज्ञानिक  observation of the islands .
In  the  1970s ,  a  mapping  प्रोजेक्ट   थी   initiated   to   लाभ  more information about the complex geology of  हवाई  's  seafloor   .
the   हॉटस्पॉट  has  चूंकि  been  tomographically  imaged , showing  it  to be wide and up to deep  ,  and olivine and  गार्नेट  -based studies have shown its magma chamber is approximately  .
In its at least 85  लाख  years  of  activity the  हॉटस्पॉट   रै  produced an estimated of rock  .
the   कड़ी  's rate of  बहाव   रै  slowly  increased  over time  ,  causing the amount of time  प्रत्येक  individual volcano is  क्रियाशील  to  घटी   ,  from 18 million  सालो  for the  76   लाख  year old  डेट्रॉयट  Seamount ,  to  just  अंतर्गत   900,000  for the  एक  million year-old Kohala  ;  on  the   अन्य  hand , eruptive volume has increased from per year to about .
Overall ,  इस   रै  caused a  ट्रेंड  towards more  क्रियाशील  but  quickly-silenced  , closely spaced  volcanoes—whereas   ज्वालामुखी  on  the   निकट   पक्ष  of the hotspot  ओवरलैप   प्रत्येक   अन्य  (  forming   ऐसे  superstructures as  हवाई  island and the ancient  मावी  Nui ) ,  the  oldest of  the  Emperor seamounts  हैं   spaced   as  far  as   अलावा   .
David Palmer ,  निदेशक  of  the  show , announced that the  ऋतु  4 finale is  the  series finale because  निकलोडियन  canceled the show .
Petitions are being signed  to  bring the show for a fifth season .
The  दिखाएँ  airs on  treehouse   tv   कनाडा   और  Nick Jr.  (  formerly Noggin  )   .
Eddie and the Cruisers  is  a  1983   अमरीकी  film  निर्देशित  by Martin Davidson  साथ  the  पटकथा  written by  the  director  और  Arlene  डेविडसन   ,   आधारित   on   the   अनोखा   by  P.  F.  Kluge .
It was marketed  साथ  the tagline ``  विद्रोही  .
Rocker .
Lover .
Idol .
Vanished . ''
Osteonecrosis  of  the jaw  (  ONJ ) is a  कठोर   अस्थि  disease  कि  affects  the   maxilla  and  the  mandible .
विभिन्न  forms of ONJ have been described over  the  last 160 years , and  a   क्रमांक  of causes  have  been suggested in  the  literature .
osteonecrosis  of  the   जबड़े  associated  साथ  bisphosphonate  चिकित्सा   ,   जरूरी   by   कुछ  cancer treatment regimens , has been identified and  पारिभाषित  as a pathological entity  चूंकि  2003 .
The possible risk from lower oral doses of bisphosphonates  ,  taken by patients  to  prevent  or  treat  ऑस्टियोपोरोसिस  , remains uncertain .
Various treatment options  have  been explored , however severe cases of ONJ  स्टिल  require surgical removal  of   the  affected bone .
A thorough history  और  assessement of pre-existing systemic problems and possible  साइट  of  दंत  infection are required to help prevent  the   कंडीशन  , especially if bisphosphonate therapy  is  considered .
the   बोस्टन  Red Sox are a professional baseball team based in  बोस्टन  ,  मैसाचुसेट्स  ,  और  a member of Major League Baseball  's  American  लीग   पूर्वी  Division .
Founded in  as  one of  the   अमरीकी  League  's  eight charter franchises  ,  the Red  sox  's home ballpark has  महरूम  Fenway Park since .
The `` Red Sox  ''  name  थी  chosen by the  टोली   मालिक  ,  जॉन  I. Taylor , around , following previous Boston teams that  था  been known as the `` Red Stockings ``  .
वे  have played in 11 World Series  ,   जीतना  7 .
Boston was a  प्रबल  team  in  the new  लीग   ,  defeating the  पिट्सबर्ग  Pirates in  the  first  संसार  Series  in  and  जीतना   चार   अधिक   championships   by  .
however  , they then went into one of the  longest  championship droughts in baseball history , called by some the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after its alleged  शुरूआत  with  the   रेड  Sox  's   बिक्री  of Babe  रुथ  to the rival Yankees  दो  years after their world championship in 1918 , an 86-year wait before the team 's  छठे  World Championship in .
however   ,  the team 's history during that  काल   थी  hardly one of futility , but  थी   बल्कि  punctuated  साथ  some  of  the most memorable  पल   in   संसार  Series history ,  सहित  Enos  वध  's ``  mad   डैश  `` in ,  the  `` Impossible  सपना  ``  of  , Carlton  फिस्क  's  घर  run in ,  और  Bill  buckner  's error  in  .
Red  sox  history  रै   भी  been marked  by  the team  's  intense rivalry  साथ  the New  यॉर्क  Yankees ,  arguably  the fiercest and  सबसे  historic  in  North American professional  खेल  .
The Boston Red Sox are owned by Fenway Sports Group , who also  अपना  Liverpool Football Club of the  प्रीमियर  League in England  .
The  रेड   sox  are  consistently  one of the  शीर्ष  MLB teams in average  सड़क  attendance  ,   जबकि  the small capacity of  fenway   पार्क   रोकता  them from leading  in   overall   उपस्थिति   .
इससे   may  15 ,  2003  to April 10 , 2013 , the  रेड  Sox sold out  प्रत्येक   घर  game-a total of 820  खेल  ( 794  नियमित   ऋतु  ) for  a   प्रमुख   पेशेवर  sports record  कि   lasted  almost a decade .
Mince pie filled with mincemeat
Mincemeat  is   a   मिश्रण  of chopped dried fruit ,  आसुत  spirits and spices , and  sometimes  beef suet , beef , or  venison  .
Originally ,  mincemeat  always contained meat .
अनेक   आधुनिक  recipes contain beef suet ,  हालांकि  vegetable shortening is  sometimes  used in its place  .
विसंगतियाँ   of   mincemeat  are found in Australia  ,   ब्रिटनी   ,  Canada , northern Europe ,  आयरलैंड  , South  अफ़्रीकी  , the  संयुक्त  Kingdom  और   the  United States .
In  कुछ  countries the  पद  mincemeat refers  to   minced  or  मैदान   मांस  .
Diana , Princess of  वेल्स   (   डायना  Frances ; née Spencer ; 1  जुलाई  1961  –  31 August 1997  )   थी   the   पहला  wife  of   चार्ल्स  , Prince of Wales  ,   the   ज्येष्ठ  son and  वारिस  apparent of Queen  एलिज़ाबेथ  II .
She  थी   खूब  known for her fund-raising work for  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   धर्मार्थ   और  as an  प्रतिष्ठित   हस्ती   of  the late 20th century .
Her wedding  to  the Prince of Wales  on   29  July 1981 was held  at  St Paul 's Cathedral and  देखी   by  a global  टेलीविज़न   दर्शक   of  over 750  लाख  .
While married she bore the titles Princess of Wales ,  duchess  of Cornwall , Duchess  of  Rothesay , Countess of Chester  और   बैरोनेस  of Renfrew .
the  marriage  उत्पादित   दो   बेटे   ,  the princes William and Harry  ,  who  became  second and third in line to the British  सिंहासन  .
Diana was  born  into an aristocratic  अंग्रेज़ी  family with  royal  ancestry  .
वो  was  the  fourth child of John Spencer , 8th  अर्ल  Spencer  और  his wife Frances ,  बेटी  of Maurice  रोश   ,  4th  सामन्त   fermoy  .
She became  a  public figure with  the  announcement  of  her engagement .
She also received  मान्यता  for  उसके   दान  work  और   लिये   उसके  support of the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Campaign to  बैन   landmines  .
इससे  1989  ,  she  थी   the  president of  the  Great Ormond Street Hospital for children ,  in   जोड  to  दर्जनों   of  other charities .
Diana  remained  the object of worldwide media scrutiny  दौरान  and after  उसके  marriage , which  ended  in  तलाक  on  28   अगस्त  1996  .
मीडिया  attention and public mourning were  considerable  following  उसके  death in  a   car  crash  in  Paris on 31 August 1997  .
अर्जेंटीना  , officially the Argentine  गणतंत्र   (  ) , is the  दूसरी  largest country in both South  अमेरिका   और  the  लैटिन  America region .
the  country is a federation of 23 provinces and the autonomous city of Buenos Aires ,  इसके  capital  और  largest city .
It is the eighth -largest country in the world by land area and the  largest  among Spanish-speaking nations by geographical area of 2,780,400 km2 and is  the  fourth  by  population  ,  with over 41  लाख  people .
Argentina is a founding member of  the  United Nations ,  mercosur  ,  the   संघ  of South American  राष्ट्र   ,  the  संगठन  of  ibero-american   राज्य  ,  the  World  बैंको  Group and  the   संसार  Trade  संगठन  , and is one of  the  G-15  और  G-20  प्रमुख  economies .
अर्जेंटीना  is located in South  अमेरिका   ,   bordered   by   चिली   to  the  वेस्ट  and south , Bolivia and Paraguay to the north and Brazil  और  Uruguay to the  पूर्वोत्तर   .
अर्जेंटीना  claims  प्रभुता  over part of  अंटार्कटिक  , the Falkland Islands ( )  और  South  जॉर्जिया  and the South Sandwich Islands .
अर्जेंटीना  is the successor  राज्य   of   the   viceroyalty   of  the  río  de la Plata  ,   an  overseas colony  of  the Spanish Empire  .
Argentina declared independence  दौरान  the Argentine  युद्ध  of  स्वतंत्रता  ,  जिससे  was followed by the Argentine Civil  युद्धों   दौरान  most of the 19th  सदी   .
The country faced several  सैन्य  coups and  राजनैतिक  instability during the 20th  सदी  ,  साथ  with periodic economic crisis that continue  to  this day .
A recognized  दक्षिणी   कोन   शक्ति  , and middle power ,  अर्जेंटीना   is  Latin America  's   third-largest   अर्थव्यवस्था  , with  a  ``  बहुत  high '' rating  on  the Human development index .
भीतर  Latin America ,  अर्जेंटीना  has the  पांचवां  highest  नाममात्र  GDP per capita  और  the  उच्चतम  in purchasing power  शर्तें  .
The Legatum Institute have argued that the country has  a  ``  न्यास  for future growth  due   to  its market  आकार  , levels of  विदेशी  direct investment ,  और  percentage of high-tech exports as share  of  total manufactured  goods   ''  , and  it  is classed by investors as middle emerging  अर्थव्यवस्था  .
Argentina is the  लैटिन  American country with  the  most  नोबेल  Prizes , for  a  total of  पाँच  , all obtained during  the   दूसरी  half of  the  twentieth  सदी  .
the  country has three  नोबेल   पुरस्कार   in   विज्ञान  and  दो  of  सलाम  .
the  most important aspects  of  science and technology in  अर्जेंटीना  are concerned with medicine ,  नाभिकीय   भौतिकी   ,  biotechnology , nanotechnology ,  स्पेस  and rocket technology  और   अनेक  fields  सम्बन्धित  to the  देश  's Main Economic  क्रियाएँ  .
The  देश   भी   रै  the mega exhibition  बीच   of  science ,  प्रौद्योगिकी   ,   उद्योग  and  आर्ट   कि   हैं  Latin America 's largest .
Hickory is a city  in   catawba  County  ,  with parts also  in   बुर्के  County and Caldwell County .
The city  's  2010  अनुमानित   जनसांख्यिकी   is   40,010  .
Hickory is the principal  नगर  in the  hickory-lenoir-morganton  MSA , in which  the  population at the 2010 Census was 365,497  .
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written  बहु  ( ethylene terephthalate ) ) , commonly abbreviated PET  ,  PETE , or the obsolete  petp  or PET-P  ,  is a  thermoplastic  polymer resin  of  the polyester family  और  is  प्रयुक्त   in  synthetic fibers ; beverage , food  और  other liquid  containers  ; thermoforming applications ;  और  engineering  resins   प्रायः  in  संयोजन  with  कांच  fiber .
The term polyethylene terephthalate is a  सोर्स  of  भ्रम  because  इस   पदार्थ  ,  पालतु   ,  does not contain polyethylene  .
यूँ   ,   the   वैकल्पिक   रूप  , poly ( ethylene terephthalate )  ,  is  प्रायः  used in  scholarly   जर्नल्स  for the sake of accuracy and  स्पष्टता  .
Depending  on   इसके  processing and  थर्मल  history , polyethylene terephthalate may exist both as an  amorphous  ( transparent ) and as a semi-crystalline polymer .
the  semicrystalline  सामग्री  might appear transparent ( particle  आकार   <  500 nm  )   or   अपारदर्शी  and  श्वेत   (  particle size up to a few microns ) depending  on  its  क्रिस्टल  structure  और  particle size  .
Its monomer  (  bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate )  can  be synthesized by the esterification reaction  between   terephthalic  acid  और  ethylene glycol with  जल   as   a  byproduct , or by transesterification reaction  between  ethylene  ग्लाइकोल  and  dimethyl   terephthalate  with methanol as a  byproduct   .
Polymerization  is  through  a  polycondensation  प्रतिक्रिया  of  the  monomers (  किया  immediately after esterification/transesterification  )  with water  as  the byproduct .
the   बहुमत  of  the  world 's PET production is for synthetic fibers ( in excess of 60 %  )  , with  बोतल   उत्पादन   हिसाब  for around  30  % of global demand  .
In the context of  वस्त्र  applications , PET is referred to by its common  नाम  , `` polyester  ,  '' whereas the acronym `` PET '' is  generally   प्रयुक्त  in  संबंध   to  packaging .
Polyester makes  up   परिचय   18  %  of  world polymer production and is the  third-most-produced   पॉलिमर  ; polyethylene  (  PE ) and polypropylene ( PP ) are  पहला   और  second  ,  respectively .
PET  consists  of polymerized units of the monomer  एथिलीन  terephthalate , with repeating C10H8O4 units .
PET is  commonly   recycled  , and has  the  number  ``  1 '' as its recycling symbol .
louisiana   थी  admitted to the Union on April  30   ,  1812  ,   और   elects  senators to Classes  2  and Class 3 .
इसके  current senators are Democrat Mary Landrieu  और   रिपब्लिकन  David Vitter .
Black pudding ,  रक्त  pudding  or  blood sausage is a type of sausage made  by   कुकिंग   रक्त  or  सूखी  blood with a  फिलर  until it is thick enough  to  congeal when cooled .
The  डिश  exists in various  संस्कृतियों  from Asia  to  Europe  और  the Americas .
सुअर  , cattle  ,  sheep , duck , and goat blood  can  be used depending on different  देशों   .
In Europe and the Americas  ,   ठेठ  fillers  शामिल   मांस   ,  fat ,  suet  , bread , cornmeal ,  मीठी  potato  ,  onion , chestnuts  ,  barley  ,   और  oatmeal .
in  Spain ,  पुर्तगाल   और   एशिया  , potato is often  replaced   by  rice  .
शेयरधारक  may refer  to:
Stakeholder ( corporate  )   ,  a person  ,  group ,  संगठन  ,  सदस्य  or system who affects  or  can  be  affected by  an   संगठन   's  actions
Stakeholder  ,  an  एंटिटी   कि  can be affected  by   the  results of  कि  in which they are said to  be  stakeholders  ,  i.e. , that  in  which they have a  हिस्सेदारी  .
प्रोजेक्ट  stakeholder  ,   a  person , group or organization with an  ब्याज   in   a  project
Stakeholder  सिद्धान्त  , a theory that identifies and  मॉडल   the  groups which are stakeholders of a  निगम  or project
Stakeholder analysis , the process of  identifying   those  affected by a project or  इवेंट
Stakeholder ( law  )  , a third party who temporarily holds money  or  property while its owner  is  still being  संकल्पित
Jack Smight  (  March  9  ,  1925  - September 1  ,   2003  )  थी  an American  थिएटर  and film director  .
Smight was born in Minneapolis  ,  Minnesota  और  went  to  school with future actor Peter  क़ब्रों   .
His film  क्रेडिट   शामिल  The Traveling Executioner ,  खरगोश  , Run ,  मीत  Couples , Midway  ,   हार्पर  , Airport 1975  ,  Damnation  alley  and the Emmy  पुरस्कार  -winning Eddie  ,  as well  as   अनेक  episodes of television series such as The  गोधूलि  Zone and The Alfred Hitchcock  घंटा  .
He also  निर्देशित  the 1960  ब्रॉडवे  play The 49th Cousin  और   रचित  the music for  the  film  adaption  of Roll  of  Thunder  सुन   my  Cry .
Smight  died  from cancer in  लॉस  Angeles  ,  California .
Dmitri Ivanovich  mendeleev   (  ;  8  February 1834  –  2 February 1907 O.S . 27 January  1834  – 20 January 1907  )   थी  a Russian chemist and inventor .
he   प्रतिपादित  the  आवधिक   विधि  , created his own version of the  आवधिक   तालिका   of  elements ,  और  used  it  to correct the properties of  कुछ  already discovered elements  और  also to predict  the  properties of elements yet to be discovered !
modesto   (   स्पेनी  for  ``  modest  ''  ) ,  officially   the  City  of  Modesto , is the county seat  और  largest city  of  Stanislaus County , California  ,   संयुक्त  States  .
साथ  a population of approximately  201,165  at the  2010  census , Modesto  बाँधने  as the  18th   largest   नगर  in the  राज्य  of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
The Modesto Census  काउंटी  Division , which includes the  शहरों  of Ceres  और   riverbank  , has  a  population  of  312,842 as  of  2010  .
Modesto is located in  the  central valley area of Northern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ,  90  miles north of Fresno ,  92  miles east of  सैन  Francisco , 68 miles  दक्षिण  of  the   राज्य  capital  of  Sacramento , 66 miles west of Yosemite National Park  ,  and 24  मील  south of Stockton .
Modesto , a  29-time  Tree City USA honoree ,  is  surrounded by rich  farmland   ,  lending to  a   रैंकिंग   लिये  the county  as  6th among all  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   काउंटी  in farm  उत्पादन  .
Led by milk  ,   बादाम   ,   मुर्गियों  ,  अखरोट  , and corn silage ,  the  county  grossed   nearly  $ 3.1  अरब   in  agricultural production in 2011 .
Modesto was  immortalized   in  the 1973 George Lucas film  अमरीकी  Graffiti .
the  award  जीतना  film  captured   the  spirit of  ``  cruising  ''  and friendship on  10th   और  11th Streets in 1962 and  led   to  the revival  of   1950   's   nostalgia  that  शामिल  the TV show  प्रसन्न  Days and the other spin-offs .
Ron Howard  ,  Harrison Ford and  रिचर्ड  Dreyfuss starred in the  फिल्मी  .
The  साउंडट्रैक  was a huge success  .
Director George  लुकास  is a  देशी  of  modesto  ,  graduating  from Downey High School in  1962  .
the  Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index  लिये  2011  ,  which interviews 1,000 participants  रोज़   और   asks   individuals  to assess their jobs , finances , physical  स्वास्थ्य   ,  emotional state  of   दिमाग  and communities  ,  ranked Modesto 126 out  of   the   190  cities surveyed .
In December  2009  , Forbes ranked Modesto 48th out  of   100  among  ``   बेहतरीन   bang-for-the-buck  Cities '' .
In this ranking , Modesto ranked 8th  in  housing  affordability  and  सफर  time but  भी  ranked  86th   in  job forecast growth and 99th  in  foreclosures .
स्वतंत्रता  Day , commonly  ज्ञात   as   the  Fourth  of  July , is  a  federal holiday in the United States commemorating the adoption of the  घोषणा   of  Independence on July 4 ,  1776  , declaring independence from  the  Kingdom of Great  ब्रिटेन  .
Independence  दिन  is  commonly  associated  साथ  fireworks , parades , barbecues  ,   carnivals   ,  fairs , picnics ,  कॉन्सर्ट   ,   बेसबॉल  games , family reunions ,  और   राजनैतिक  speeches and ceremonies , in addition  to  various other public and private events  celebrating   the  history ,  सरकारी  , and traditions of  the  United  राज्य  .
Independence Day is  the  national  दिन  of  the  United States .
A gender  प्रतीक  denotes the sex  of   an  organism or  characterizes  an agent by  लिंग   .
The  दो  standard gender symbols denoting male  ♂  and  मादा  ♀ are derived from astrological symbols  ,  denoting the classical planets  मंगल  and  शुक्र  , respectively  .
These symbols have been  in  use since the Renaissance also  denoting   तत्व  in alchemy , specifically the  धातुओं  iron and  तांबे   .
They  यहूद  first used to denote the  प्रभावी   लिंग  of plants (  i.e  .  sex  of individual in a  दिए   crossbreed  , since most plants are hermaphroditic )  by   carolus  Linnaeus  in  1751 .
A leasehold estate  is  an ownership  of  a  अस्थाई   सही   to  hold  जमीन  or  प्रॉपर्टी  in which a lessee or a  किरायेदार  holds rights  of  real property  by  some form of title  इससे  a lessor or landlord .
Although a  किरायेदार  does  थाम  rights  to  real property , a  leasehold   एस्टेट   is  typically considered personal property .
leasehold  is a form  of  land tenure  or  property tenure where one  पार्टी   खरीदता  the  सही  to occupy land  or  a building for a given  लंबाई   of  time .
As  पट्टे   is  a legal estate  ,   leasehold   एस्टेट  can be bought and  बेची  on the open  मार्केट   .
a  leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where  the  ownership of a property is purchased  outright  and thereafter held for an indeterminate length  of  time  ,   और  also  differs   इससे   a  tenancy  जहाँ   a   प्रॉपर्टी   is  let ( rented )  on   a   आवधिक   आधार   ऐसे   as  weekly or monthly  .
Until the  समाप्त   of   the  lease period ( often measured in  दशकों   or   सदियां  ; a  99  year lease  is  quite  आम  ) the leaseholder  रै  the  सही  to remain in  occupation   as  an assured tenant paying an agreed rent to  the  owner  .
Terms of the agreement  हैं  contained in a lease , which has elements  of   अनुबंध   और  property law intertwined .
the  term estate  लिये   सालो  may occasionally  be  used  .
इस   refers  to  a   leasehold   एस्टेट  for any specific  काल   of  time ( the word  ``  years '' is  भ्रामक  )  .
An  एस्टेट   लिये  years is not automatically renewed .
Colloquially , `` lease '' and `` leasing  ``  are often a formalization  of  a longer , specific  काल   as  compared with  a  `` rental '' that created a tenancy at will  ,  terminable or renewable at  the  end of  a  short period  .
ओलिविया  ( also known  as   स्वागत   to  the  संसार  of the  सुअर  Olivia  )   is  a  british-american  children 's  एनिमेटेड   टेलीविज़न  series produced  by  media  कम्पनी  Chorion and  आधारित   on  Ian  falconer  's books .
It  is   देखी   on  Nick  jr.  in the  us  , Milkshake !
,  Nick  jr.  in the UK and Ireland , and  डिज़्नी  Junior  in  Latin America and  ब्राज़ील  , Treehouse TV  in   कनाडा  .
The show has won a  चांदी  Parents ' Choice Award for its  धनात्मक  story lines  और  characters  .
स्थान  of  पनामा  between Pacific ( bottom )  और   caribbean   (  top  )  , with canal at top  बीच
The Panama Canal  (  ) is  a  ship  कनाल  in  पनामा  that connects  the  Atlantic  समंदर   (  via the Caribbean  समुद्र   )   to   the  Pacific Ocean .
the   कनाल  cuts  आरपार  the Isthmus of Panama and  is  a key conduit for  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  maritime  व्यापार  .
There are locks at each end  to  lift ships  up   to  Gatun  झील  ( above sea-level )  .
Gatun Lake was  निर्मित  to reduce the  राशि  of  कार्य  required for the  कनाल  .
the  current locks  हैं  wide  .
A third , wider  लेन   of   ताले  is  होने   निर्मित  .
फ़्रांस   began  work on  the   कनाल  in 1881 , but had to stop because  of  engineering problems and  ऊँची   मृत्यु  due  to  disease .
The  संयुक्त  States (  us   )  later  took  over  the   प्रोजेक्ट  and took  a  decade to  पूरा  the canal in 1914 , enabling  जहाजों  to  avoid  the lengthy Cape Horn route around  the  southernmost tip of South America  (  via the  ड्रेक   ड्योढ़ी  ) or to  navigate  the Strait of Magellan  .
One of the  largest  and most difficult  अभियान्त्रिकी   प्रोजेक्ट  ever undertaken ,  the   पनामा   कनाल  shortcut made it possible for ships to  सफर   between  the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans in half  the   समय   previously   जरूरी  .
The  shorter   ,  faster , safer route to the US  वेस्ट  Coast  और  to  राष्ट्र  in and along the Pacific  समंदर  allowed  those  places to become more integrated  साथ  the world economy .
During this time , ownership of the territory  कि  is now the  पनामा  Canal  थी  first  कोलम्बियाई   ,  then French ,  और   तब  American  ;  the United States completed the construction .
The canal was  लिया   over   in   1999  by the Panamanian government  ,  as long  नियोजित   .
सालाना  traffic has  risen  from about 1,000 ships when  the  canal  खोली   in  1914 , to  14,702   बरतन  in  2008  , the latter measuring a total of 309.6 million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System ( PC/UMS  )  tons  .
By 2008 ,  अधिक  than  815,000  vessels  था  passed through the canal , many  of  them  much  larger than the  असली  planners could  have  envisioned ;  the   largest   जहाजों  that can transit the canal today are called Panamax .
the  American  समाज   of  Civil  इंजीनियर्स  has  नामित  the  पनामा   कनाल  one of  the  seven wonders  of   the   आधुनिक  world .
Benjamin Franklin (  अप्रैल  17 , 1790 )  थी  one  of   the   founding   fathers   of   the  United States  .
A noted polymath ,  फ्रैंकलिन  was  a  leading author , printer ,  राजनैतिक  theorist , politician , postmaster , scientist ,  संगीतकार   ,  inventor , satirist  ,  civic  activist  ,  statesman  ,  और  diplomat .
As a scientist  ,  he was a major figure in the American Enlightenment  और  the history  of  physics for his discoveries  और   theories   regarding  electricity  .
he  invented  the   बिजली  rod  ,   bifocals   ,   the  Franklin  स्टोव  , a carriage  ओडोमीटर  , and the glass 'armonica '  .
He facilitated many civic organizations , including a fire department and  a  university .
फ्रैंकलिन  earned the  शीर्षक  of `` The First American '' for his early  और  indefatigable campaigning for  औपनिवेशिक  unity  ;  as  an  author and spokesman in London  लिये  several colonies , then as the first United States Ambassador to  फ़्रांस  , he exemplified the emerging American nation .
फ्रैंकलिन  was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values  of   thrift  , hard work , education , community spirit ,  self-governing   संस्थानों  ,  और  opposition to  authoritarianism  both political  और   धार्मिक  , with the scientific and tolerant values  of  the Enlightenment .
in  the words of historian Henry Steele Commager , ``  in  a Franklin  could  be merged the  virtues   of  Puritanism  बगैर  its  दोषों  , the  illumination  of the Enlightenment without its heat  .   ''
To Walter Isaacson , this makes Franklin `` the most  संपन्नता  American  of   उसके  age and the most influential in  inventing  the type of society  अमेरिका  would  become  .  ''
Franklin ,  सदा   गर्व   of  his working  क्लास  roots , became a successful  समाचारपत्र  editor and printer in Philadelphia , the leading city in the  colonies  .
He was also partners with William Goddard and Joseph Galloway the three  of  whom published  the  Pennsylvania Chronicle , a newspaper that was known for its  क्रांतिकारी   sentiments  and criticisms of the British  साम्राज्य   in   the  American colonies .
he  became  धनवान  publishing Poor Richard  's  Almanack and  the  Pennsylvania Gazette  .
Franklin  gained   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  renown  as  a scientist for  उसके   प्रसिद्ध  experiments  in   विद्युत  and for his  अनेक  inventions , especially the lightning rod .
he   निभाई   a  major  भूमिका   in   establishing  the University of  पेन्सिलवेनिया  and was elected  the  first president  of  the  अमरीकी  Philosophical Society .
फ्रैंकलिन  became  a  national hero in America  जब  he  पथप्रदर्शन  the effort  to   have   पार्लियामेंट  repeal the  unpopular   स्टैम्प   अधिनियम  .
An  संपन्नता  diplomat  ,  he was widely admired  among  the French as  अमरीकी  minister to Paris and was a  प्रमुख  figure  in  the development of  धनात्मक  Franco-American  संबंध  .
For many  सालो  he was the  अंग्रेजों  postmaster for the  colonies   ,  which enabled him  to  set  up  the first national  संचार  network  .
He was  क्रियाशील  in community affairs ,  औपनिवेशिक  and state  राजनीती   ,  as well  as  national and international affairs .
From  1785  to 1788 , he  परोसा  as governor of Pennsylvania  .
Toward the end of his  जीवन  , he  freed  his slaves and became one of the  सबसे  prominent abolitionists .
उसके  colorful life and legacy of  वैज्ञानिक   और  political achievement , and  औकात  as one  of  America 's most influential Founding Fathers  ,   have   देखी   फ्रैंकलिन  honored on coinage  और  money ; warships  ;   the  names of many  कस्बों  , counties , educational institutions , namesakes  ,  and companies ;  और  more than  दो  centuries after his death , countless cultural  सन्दर्भ  .
दण्ड  Minds  is  an American  पुलिस   प्रक्रियात्मक  television program that premiered September 22 , 2005  ,  on CBS .
The  श्रेणी  follows a  टोली  of profilers from the  एफबीआई   's  Behavioral Analysis  ईकाई  ( BAU  )  based in Quantico , Virginia  .
The BAU is part of the FBI National Center  लिये   the   विश्लेषण   of   हिंसक   अपराधों   .
The show differs from  अनेक   प्रक्रियात्मक  dramas by focusing  on   प्रोफाइलिंग  the criminal ,  बल्कि  than the crime itself  .
The show is produced by The  चिह्नित  Gordon Company in association with CBS Television  studios   (  originally Paramount Network Television then CBS Paramount Network Television )  और  ABC Studios  (  originally  touchstone  Television  )   .
CBS announced in October 2009 that Legacy Interactive would develop a video game based on the show .
The game  होता  require players to examine  अपराधों  scenes for clues to help solve murder mysteries .
The  इंटरैक्टिव  puzzle game was released in 2012 , but did not  विशेषता  any  of  the voices of  the  show  's  cast , nor  थी  the  डाल  involved with  the  project .
On March 14 , 2012 , CBS renewed Criminal  minds  for an  आठवीं   ऋतु   ,  which premiered on September 26 ,  2012  .
``  heart-shaped  Box '' is  a   सोंग  by the American  grunge   बैंड  Nirvana ,  लिखा  by vocalist and guitarist Kurt Cobain .
The song was released as the  पहला  single  इससे   the   समूह   's  third  और  final studio album  ,  In Utero , in 1993 .
It was  एक  of  दो  songs from the  एल्बम  mixed  by  Scott Litt  in  order  to  augment the original production  by  producer Steve  albini   .
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records  किया  not release  a  physical single  लिये  sale  in  the United States ,  ``   heart-shaped  Box ''  प्राप्त   much  American  रेडियो   airplay  , reaching number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  release  of   the   सिंगल   पहुँचे   क्रमांक  five  on  the  uk   singles  Chart .
The  सोंग  's music video , directed by  एंटोन  Corbijn , garnered critical plaudits  .
The orbital speed  of  a  देह  , generally a  ग्रह   ,  a natural  उपग्रह   ,  an artificial satellite ,  or  a multiple star , is the speed at  जिससे  it  orbits   around  the barycenter of  a   प्रणाली   ,  usually around a more massive body  .
It can be used to refer  to  either  the  mean orbital speed  ,  the average  गति  as  it   completes   an  orbit  ,   or  instantaneous  कक्षीय  speed , the speed at  a  particular  पाइंट   in   इसके  orbit  .
The orbital  गति   at  any position in  the   कक्षा  can  be  computed from the distance  to  the central body  at   कि   स्थिति  ,  और  the specific orbital  उर्जा  , which is independent  of   स्थिति  : the kinetic  उर्जा  is the total energy  ऋण  the potential energy  .
Brown  राजमहल  Interior and  अलिंद
Brown Palace  होटल  is the second-oldest operating hotel  in   डेनवर  , Colorado and is one of  the   पहला  atrium-style hotel ever  निर्मित   .
it   is  now operated  by  Quorum Hotels and Resorts .
It  थी  built in  1892  ,  एक   साल  later than the  ऑक्सफोर्ड   होटल   .
It was named for its original owner  ,  Henry C. Brown  ,   और  was designed with its odd triangular  आकार   by   वास्तु  Frank  edbrooke  .
the  hotel is located at 321  17th  St , Denver ,  co  between 17th Street , Broadway  और  Tremont  street/pl   in   शहर   डेनवर  behind the  गणतंत्र   प्लाजा  .
The main entrance  द्वार   is  on  tremont  Street .
dvd-video   is  a  उपभोक्ता   वीडियो  format used to store  डिजिटल  video  on  DVD discs ,  और  is  फिलहाल   the  dominant consumer video format  in  Asia , North  अमेरिका  ,  यूरोपीय   ,   और  Australia .
Discs using the DVD-Video  specification  require a DVD drive  और  an H.262/MPEG-2  भाग  2  डिकोडर   (  e.g.  ,  a DVD player , or  a  computer DVD drive with a software  dvd  player ) .
वाणिज्यिक  DVD  फिल्मों  are  एनकोडेड   using   a   संयोजन  of  h.262/mpeg-2  Part  2  compressed video and audio  of  varying formats  (   प्रायः  multi-channel formats  as  described  नीचे  ) .
Typically , the data rate for DVD  फिल्मों  ranges from 3  mbit/s   to  9.5  mbit/s  ,  और   the  bit  रेट  is usually  अनुकूली   .
it  was  पहला  available for retail around 1997 .
the   dvd-video  specification was created  by  DVD Forum and  can  be  प्राप्त  from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000 .
The specification is not  सरेआम  available ,  क्युकी  every subscriber  जरूर  sign a non-disclosure agreement  .
Certain  सूचना  in the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential .
The  nautical  mile ( symbol M  ,   nm  or nmi ) is  a  unit of  लंबाई  that  is  about one minute of arc of  अक्षांश  measured along any  मध्याह्न  , or about one minute of  चाप  of  देशांतर  at the equator  .
By  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   अनुबंध  it has been set at 1,852 metres exactly  (  about 6,076 feet ) .
It is  a  non-  si   ईकाई  ( although accepted for  उपयोग   in  the International System of Units by the  bipm   )  used especially by navigators in  the  shipping and  विमानन   उद्योग  , and also in  ध्रुवीय  exploration .
it   is  commonly used in  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  law and  treaties  , especially regarding the  हद  of territorial  waters  .
It developed  इससे  the sea  मील  and the  सम्बन्धित  geographical  मील  .
the  nautical  मील  remains  in  use by sea and  एयर  navigators worldwide because of  इसके   convenience  when working with charts  .
सबसे  nautical  चार्ट  use  the  Mercator  प्रक्षेप   जिनकी  scale  varies   by  about a factor  of   छह  from  the  equator  to  80°  अक्षांश  , so charts covering large  क्षेत्रों   can  not use  a  single linear scale  .
the  nautical  मील  is  nearly  equal to  a  minute of  अक्षांश   on   a  chart ,  so   a  distance measured with a chart divider can be roughly converted to  nautical  miles  using  the chart  's  latitude scale .
Shippensburg  is  a  बरो   in  Cumberland  और  Franklin  काउंटी   in   the   u.S.   राज्य  of Pennsylvania .
Settled  in  1730 , Shippensburg  झूठ   in  the  कम्बरलैंड  Valley  ,   41   मील  ( 66 km )  west-southwest  of Harrisburg  ,  and is part of  the   harrisburg–  Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area .
In  1900   ,  3,228  लोगों  lived there ; in 1910 , 3,457  ;  and in 1940 ,  5,244  people  जिया  there  .
the  population was 5,492  at   the   2010  census  .
Shippensburg was incorporated as  a   बरो  on  जनवरी  21  ,   1819   .
In the past , there were  फर्नीचर  factories , engine and pump  works  , and  अन्य  industrial works located within the  कस्बा  .
shippensburg  is also  the   घर  of The  beistle  Company , the  oldest  and largest manufacturer of decorations and party goods , which sells its distinctive honeycomb paper decorations worldwide .
It is also the location of Pague  और   fegan  , the oldest continuously operated hardware store in Pennsylvania .
in   may  2012 ,  वोल्वो  Construction Equipment began a $  100  million  विस्तार   प्रोजेक्ट   to   लाओ  its American headquarters  to   shippensburg   .
Shippensburg is also  घर  to Shippensburg  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Pennsylvania ,  एक   of   14  universities of  the   पेन्सिलवेनिया  State System  of  Higher Education .
Yearly the last full  सप्ताह  of July , the  shippensburg  Community Fair  is  held .
begun  in  1958  , the fair  बिल्स  itself as Pennsylvania 's largest  bi-county  fair .
The fair includes agricultural  दर्शाती   ,  a craft show , food vendors ,  और  carnival  यात्राएँ   amongst  other  बाते  .
Every summer  on  the  पिछला   शनिवार  of August ,  shippensburg  holds the Corn  पर्व  , an event that brings regional artisans and vendors to  operate  stands downtown .
The downtown  is  closed to  ट्रैफ़िक  for at  तनिक   5  blocks for  सबसे  of  the  day .
Average  उपस्थिति   at   the  festival is estimated  at  60,000 -  70,000  each year .
Black  बालदार  tongue  (  BHT , also  termed  lingua villosa nigra )  refers  to a condition of  the  tongue where  the   filiform   papillae  elongate with black or brown discoloration , giving  a   ब्लैक   और  hairy  रूप  .
The appearance  may  be  alarming  , but it  is  a harmless condition .
predisposing   कारकों  include smoking , xerostomia ( dry  मुँह   )  , soft diet  ,  poor oral hygiene and  निश्चित  medications .
Management is by  improving   मौखिक  hygiene , especially scraping or brushing the tongue .
the  IEEE 1394 interface is  a  serial bus interface standard  लिये   high-speed  communications and  isochronous   real-time  data transfer .
it  was developed in the late 1980s  और  early  1990s  by Apple , who called it FireWire  .
The 1394 interface  is   comparable   to  USB , and often those two  technologies  are considered together ,  हालांकि  USB has more market share .
ठहराना  first included FireWire  in   कुछ  of its 1999 models ,  और   सबसे  Apple computers  चूंकि  the year 2000 have  शामिल  FireWire ports ,  हालांकि  , as of 2013 , nothing beyond the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b  )  .
The interface is also  ज्ञात  by the brand i.LINK  (  Sony  )  ,  और  Lynx (  टेक्सास   यंत्र  ) .
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel  scsi   in  many  अनुप्रयोग  , because of lower implementation costs  और  a simplified , more adaptable cabling system .
the   1394  standard  भी  defines a backplane interface , though this  is  not as widely used .
IEEE 1394  is  the  high-definition  Audio-Video Network Alliance  (  HANA )  मानक  connection  इंटरफ़ेस   लिये  A/V ( audio/visual  )  component  संचार  and control .
firewire   is  also  उपलब्धियाँ  in wireless ,  रेशा  optic ,  और   समाक्षीय  versions  using  the  isochronous  protocols .
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan (  अक्तूबर   3   ,  1954 – August 27 , 1990  )  was an  अमरीकी  guitarist , singer-songwriter ,  और   रिकार्ड   निर्माता  .
Often  referred   to   by  his initials SRV , Vaughan is best  ज्ञात  as a  founding  member  और  leader of Double Trouble .
साथ  with drummer  क्रिस   layton   और  bassist Tommy Shannon  ,   वे  ignited  the  blues revival of  the  1980s .
साथ  a  करियर   spanning  seven years , Vaughan  और  Double Trouble consistently  बेची  out  कॉन्सर्ट   जबकि  their  एल्बम  frequently went  सुनहरा  .
he  was born and  उठाया  in Dallas , Texas , and for a short period of  समय  lived  in   ग्राहम  ,  टेक्सास  .
As the younger  bhai  of Jimmie  vaughan   ,   vaughan  started  playing  the  गिटार  at  आयु  seven and formed several bands that  occasionally  performed  in  local nightclubs .
At age 17 ,  he  dropped out of high school  और  moved to  ऑस्टिन  to further pursue his musical  करियर  , joining groups such as Krackerjack  ,   the  Nightcrawlers  ,   और   the  Cobras .
In 1977  ,  he formed Triple Threat Revue  ,   a  band that eventually  विकसित  into Double Trouble and regularly performed  around  Austin .
In 1982 ,  vaughan   और  Double  ट्रबल   performed  at the Montreux Jazz Festival  in   स्विट्ज़रलैंड  ,  catching   the   ध्यान  of musicians  दाउद   बोवी  and Jackson Browne  .
Bowie asked  vaughan   to  play  on  his upcoming studio album Let  's  Dance ,  जबकि  Browne offered the  बैंड  free  उपयोग  of  उसके  personal studio  in   लॉस   एंजिल्स   to  record an album .
In March 1983 , Vaughan  और   दोगुना  Trouble were signed  to  Epic Records by veteran record  निर्माता  John Hammond Sr.  और  released their debut album , Texas  बाढ़  in June of that year  .
After successful touring  ,  the group released the  एल्बम   ,  Could  n't  Stand the  मौसम  ( 1984 )  और  Soul to Soul  (  1985 ) , the latter of which featured new keyboardist  रीज़  Wynans .
Although  उसके  career had progressed  सफलतापूर्वक  , Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta , Georgia to  दे  up a cocaine and  दारू  habit  और  returned to  touring  with the band .
In June 1989  ,  In  कदम   थी  released and  अर्जित   उन्हें  a Grammy Award for  बेहतरीन   समकालीन  Blues Performance .
on  August 27  ,   1990  ,  vaughan  was killed in  a  helicopter crash  following  a  प्रदर्शन   in   ईस्ट  Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan  's   uniquely   eclectic  yet intense style was derived from a variety of  musical  genres  .
he   थी  influenced by blues musicians  सहित  Albert  किंग   ,  Freddie King  ,   ओटिस   फटाफट   ,  and  muddy  Waters  ,   और  rock guitarists such  as  Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie  mack  .
His  गिटार  playing reflected the  क्लासिक  blues and pentatonic scales .
He  रै   प्राप्त  wide critical recognition for his guitar playing ,  रैंकिंग  at #  6   on   रोलिंग  Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011  .
he   थी   मरणोपरांत  inducted into the  ब्लूज़  Hall  of  Fame in 2000 and  a   मेमोरियल  statue was erected  in  Austin  's  Auditorium Shores park .
Stevie Ray Vaughan is  widely   माना   to  be one  of  the greatest  संगीतकारों   to   आइये  from the state  of  Texas .
GigE  redirects  here .
For  the  camera protocol , see GigE vision  .
In  कंप्यूटर  networking  ,  gigabit Ethernet  (   gbe  or 1 GigE  )   is  a  पद  describing various technologies for transmitting  ईथरनेट  frames at a rate  of   a  gigabit  प्रति  second ( 1,000,000,000 bits per  दूसरी   )  ,  as  defined by the IEEE 802.3-2008  मानक  .
It  आए  into  उपयोग  beginning in  1999  ,  धीरे  supplanting Fast Ethernet in wired local networks  ,  where it  performed   considerably   तेज़  .
the  cables and equipment are  बहुत  similar  to  previous standards and were very common and  किफायती  by 2010 .
half-duplex  gigabit links  कनेक्ट   through  hubs are  अनुमत  by the specification ,  लकिन   full-duplex  usage with  switches   is  much more common .
Intel PRO/1000 GT PCI network interface  कार्ड
The main  components  of a stamp:
1 . Image
2 . Perforations
3  .  Denomination
4 .  देश  name
A postage stamp is a small piece of paper that is purchased and displayed on  an  item  of  mail as  प्रमाण  of payment  of   postage  .
Typically , stamps are made from  खास  paper ,  साथ  a national designation and denomination ( price )  on  the face , and  a  gum  चिपकने  on  the  reverse  पक्ष  .
postage   stamps  are purchased  इससे  a postal administration or other authorized vendor and are used to pay for the costs involved in  चलती  mail  as   खूब  as  अन्य  business necessities  ऐसे   as  insurance and registration  .
the  stamp’s shape is usually that of  a  small  आयताकार  of varying  proportions   ,   हालांकि  triangles or  अन्य  shapes are occasionally used  .
The  स्टैम्प  is affixed  to  an envelope or other postal cover ( i.e. ,  पैकेट  , box , mailing cylinder  )  that  the  customer  बधाइयां  to send .
the  item is then processed by  the   डाक  system  ,   जहाँ  a postmark  ,   sometimes  known as a cancellation mark ,  is  usually applied over the stamp and cover ;  इस   कार्यविधि  marks the stamp  as  used , which  रोकता  its reuse .
The postmark indicates the date and point  of  origin of  the  mailing  .
The mailed item is then delivered to the  पता  that the customer has  लागू  to the  लिफाफा  or cover .
postage  stamps have facilitated the  डिलीवरी  of mail  चूंकि  the 1840s .
Before this  समय  ,  स्याही  and hand-stamps  (   hence   the   शब्द  'stamp  '  ) , usually made  इससे  wood or cork , were  प्रायः  used to frank the mail and confirm  the  payment of  postage   .
The first adhesive postage stamp , commonly  referred  to as the Penny Black ,  थी  issued in  the  United Kingdom in 1840 .
The invention  of  the stamp was a part of the attempt  to  reform and improve the  डाक  system  in   the  United Kingdom of  ग्रेट  Britain  और   आयरलैंड   ,  which in the early 19th  सदी   थी   in   अस्तव्यस्तता  and  rife   साथ  corruption .
There are varying accounts of the inventor  or  inventors of the stamp  .
Before the introduction  of  postage  stamps   ,   मेल  in  the  UK  थी  paid for by the  प्राप्तकर्ता  , a system that was  संबद्ध   साथ  an irresolvable problem : the costs of delivering  मेल  were not  recoverable   by  the postal service when recipients  यहूद   असमर्थ  or unwilling to pay for delivered  वस्तुएं  , and senders had no incentive to  सीमित   the  number , size , or  वज़न   of  items sent ,  whether  or not they would ultimately be paid for .
The  postage   स्टैम्प  resolved this issue in a simple  और  elegant manner  ,  with the  अतिरिक्त  benefit  of  room for an  तत्व  of beauty  to  be introduced  .
Later related inventions  शामिल  postal  स्टेशनरी   ऐसे   as  prepaid-postage envelopes , post cards  ,  lettercards , aerogrammes and wrappers  ,  postage  मीटर  , and , more recently  ,  specialty boxes  और   लिफाफे  provided free  to   the   ग्राहक   by  the U.S. postal service for priority  or  express mailing  .
The postage stamp afforded  convenience  for both the mailer and postal  officials  ,  अधिक  efficiently  बरामद  costs for the postal service ,  और  ultimately resulted in a  बेहतर  ,  तेज़   डाक  system  .
साथ   the  conveniences  stamps   offered   ,  their use resulted in greatly  increased  mailings during the 19th  और  20th centuries  .
Postage stamps during this era  यहूद  the most popular way of paying for mail , but by the  समाप्त  of the  20th  century  यहूद  rapidly being  आत  by the  उपयोग  of  metered   postage  and bulk  mailing   by   व्यवसायों  .  )
The  वही   परिणाम   साथ  respect to  संचार  by private parties occurred  over   the  last decade  of   the  20th  सदी  and the first decade of the 21st due to declining cost  of  long distance telephone communications and  the  development and explosive  स्प्रेड   of  electronic  mailing   (  `` e-mail ''  via  the  अंतरजाल  ) and  विधेयक  paying  प्रणालियों  had .
as  postage stamps with their engraved imagery began to appear on a widespread  आधार   ,  historians and collectors began to  लो   सूचना  .
the   पढ़ाई  of postage stamps and  उनके  use is referred  to  as philately  .
Stamp collecting  can  be  दोनो  a  शौक  and  a  form of  ऐतिहासिक  study and  सन्दर्भ  , as government-issued postage stamps and their mailing  प्रणालियों   have  always been involved with the  इतिहास  of nations  .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों  of  अलबामा  at  बर्मिंघम  ( UAB )  is  a  पब्लिक   विश्वविद्यालयों  in  बर्मिंघम  in the U.S.  राज्य  of  अलबामा  .
Developing from  an  extension center established  in  1936 ,  the  institution became an autonomous institution  in  1969  और  is today one of three institutions in the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of  अलबामा  System .
uab   offers  over 140  कार्यक्रम  of  पढ़ाई  in  12  academic divisions leading to bachelor 's ,  निपुण  's , doctoral , and professional degrees in the  सोशल  and behavioral  sciences  , the liberal arts  ,  business  ,  education  ,  engineering  ,   और  health-related fields such as  आयुर्विज्ञान   ,  dentistry ,  optometry  , nursing  ,   और   पब्लिक  health .
the  school is highly  प्रसिद्ध  for its medical  शोध   और  natural sciences  कार्यक्रम   .
the   uab  Health System , one  of  the largest academic medical centers  in  the United States , is affiliated with the  विश्वविद्यालयों  .
UAB Hospital sponsors residency programs in  विभिन्न  medical specialties  ,  including internal  आयुर्विज्ञान  , neurology ,  सर्जरी   ,  radiology  ,   और  anesthesiology .
UAB  हॉस्पिटल  is the only ACS  सत्यापित  Level  i   आघात  center in Alabama ,  as  rated by the American  कॉलेज  of Surgeons Trauma Program  .
uab   is   the  state 's largest employer , with more than 18,000 faculty  और   स्टाफ  and  over  53,000  कार्य   at  the  विश्वविद्यालयों  and in the  स्वास्थ्य  system .
An estimated 10 percent of the  कार्य  in the  birmingham-hoover  Metropolitan Area and 1  in  33  कार्य   in  the state of  अलबामा   हैं  directly or  indirectly   सम्बन्धित  to UAB .
The university 's overall annual economic  प्रभाव  was  अनुमानित   to  be $ 4.6 billion  in  2010 .
In the  पतन  of  2012   ,   the   विश्वविद्यालयों   of  Alabama at Birmingham enrolled 17,999 students from  अधिक   than   110   देशों   ,  including 1,605 freshmen  .
There are plans to  commence  with an  ``  aggressive ''  विकास  in enrollment at UAB .
The current  uab  President  is  Dr.  रे  L. Watts .
टोफू  ,  भी  called bean curd  ,   is  a  खाना  made  by  coagulating  सोया  juice and  तब  pressing the resulting curds into soft  श्वेत   ब्लॉक  .
It is a component  in  many East Asian and  southeast   एशियाई   व्यंजन   .
वहीँ  are many different varieties of tofu , including fresh  टोफू  and  टोफू  that has been processed  in  some way  .
Tofu has  a   हल्का   स्वाद  and  can  be used in  savory  and sweet dishes .
It is often seasoned or marinated  to  suit  the   डिश  .
Tofu originated in ancient China some 2,000  सालो  ago  .
Chinese  लेजेंड  ascribes its  आविष्कार  to  प्रिंस  Liu An  (  Chinese : 劉安  liú  Ān , 179–122 BC ) .
Tofu and  इसके  production technique were introduced into  कोरियाई   और  then  जापानी  during  the   nara   काल  .
it  spread into  अन्य   भाग  of East  एशिया   as  well .
This spread  संभावित  coincided  साथ  the  स्प्रेड  of  buddhism   क्युकी  it is an  महत्वपूर्ण  source of protein in the vegetarian diet of  ईस्ट  Asian  buddhism  .
Li Shizhen  in  the Ming Dynasty  वर्णित  a method  of  making tofu in Bencao Gangmu .
टोफू  has a low calorie count ,  अपेक्षाकृत  large  amounts   of   प्रोटीन  , and little fat .
It  is  high in iron and depending on the  coagulant  used in manufacturing ,  may  also be high in calcium  and/or  magnesium .
बुलबुले   (  born 1983  )   is  a  आम   चिंपैंजी   ,   ज्ञात  for being  the  one-time  पालतु  of American recording  कलाकार  Michael Jackson , who bought the primate from a  टेक्सास   शोध   सुविधा  in the  जल्दी  1980s .
The animal  थी   a   बारंबार  travel companion to the singer , whose  अनुलग्नक   to  the  एनिमल   led  to media  mockery  and  ,  among other factors  ,   to  a public perception  of  Jackson as  an  eccentric .
During the Bad  संसार   दौरे  ,  लिये  example ,  जैक्सन  brought Bubbles  साथ   उसे   to  Japan , where  वे   दोनो  drank  चाय  with the mayor  of  Osaka .
बुलबुले   थी   initially  kept at the Jackson family  's  home in Encino ,  लॉस  Angeles  ,  but was  स्थानांतरित  to  neverland  Ranch in 1988 .
There , he slept  in  a  crib  in  जैक्सन   's  bedroom , used  the  singer 's  प्रसाधन   ,  and ate candy in  the  Neverland movie theater .
In 2003 the public learned that  ,  like all  खिलाते  chimpanzees  ,   बुलबुले  had matured into a large and aggressive adult  chimp  unsuitable as a companion animal .
He  थी  sent to a  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  animal trainer , where he was reported to  have  attempted suicide  .
When the trainer  shut   bas  his operation in 2004  ,   बुलबुले   थी  moved to the Center for Great Apes  ,   a   अभयारण्य  in  wauchula  , Florida  ,  where he has lived  चूंकि   2005  .
Muse are an English  चट्टान  band from Teignmouth , Devon  ,  which  formed  in  1994   .
The  बैंड   consists  of  स्कूल  friends  मैथ्यू  Bellamy ( lead vocals ,  सीसे  guitar ,  पियानो  ,  keyboards  , keytar  )   ,   क्रिस्टोफर  Wolstenholme ( bass , vocals  ,  keyboards , rhythm  गिटार  , harmonica ) and Dominic Howard ( drums , percussion , synthesisers  ,   sampling  ) .
Since the release of  उनके   2006  album Black  छेद  and Revelations  ,  keyboardist and percussionist Morgan Nicholls has performed live  साथ   the  band .
चिंतन   हैं  known for  उनके  energetic and  हद  live performances  और  their fusion of  अनेक   म्यूज़िक   जाति   ,   सहित  space  चट्टान  , progressive  चट्टान  , alternative rock  ,  heavy metal , classical music and electronica .
चिंतन  have released  छह  studio albums : Showbiz  (   1999  )  ,  Origin  of  Symmetry  (  2001 ) ,  absolution   (  2003  )  ,  ब्लैक  Holes and Revelations ( 2006 ) , The Resistance  (   2009  ) and The  2nd  Law ( 2012  )   .
They  have  also issued three  सजीव  albums , Hullabaloo Soundtrack  (  2002 ) ,  जिससे  is also a compilation of B-sides , Absolution  दौरे  ( 2005  )  , and  haarp  ( 2008 ) , which  दस्तावेज़   the   बैंड  's  प्रदर्शन  at  वेम्बली  Stadium in 2007 .
Black Holes and Revelations earned  the   बैंड  a Mercury Prize nomination and a third place  समाप्त  in the NME  एल्बम  of the Year  सूची  for 2006 .
Muse have also won a collection  of   म्यूज़िक  awards  throughout  their  इतिहास  , including five MTV  यूरोपीय  Music Awards , six Q Awards  ,   आठ  NME Awards  ,   दो   ब्रिट   पुरस्कार  —winning `` Best British Live Act '' twice , an  एमटीवी  Video  म्यूज़िक  Award ,  चार  Kerrang  !
Awards and an  अमरीकी   म्यूज़िक  Award .
They were also nominated for five  ग्रैमी  Awards ,  of  which  वे  won  बेहतरीन  Rock  एल्बम   ,  for their fifth studio album The  प्रतिरोध   (  2009 ) .
चिंतन   have  sold over 15 million albums worldwide .
bloemfontein  (  ,  ;  डच   लिये  `` fountain of flowers '' ) is the capital city  of  the Free State  प्रांत  of South Africa ; and  ,  as the judicial capital of the nation  ,  one of South Africa  's  three  नेशनल  capitals  –  the other  दो   होने  Cape Town ,  the  legislative capital , and Pretoria  ,   the   प्रशासनिक   पूंजी   .
bloemfontein   is   popularly  and poetically known as  ``  the city  of   गुलाब  ``  ,  owing to  the  abundance  of  these flowers and the  सालाना  rose festival  आयोजित  there .
The city  's  Sesotho  नाम  is Mangaung ,  अर्थ   ``   प्लेस  of cheetahs  ``   और  it has been included in the Mangaung Local Municipality since 2000 .
Bloemfontein is situated  on  dry grassland  at  , at  an   ऊँचाई  of above sea level .
The city is home to  369,568  residents , while the Mangaung Local Municipality has a population  of  645,455  .
जहाँ  Do  we  Come From  ?
What  हैं   we   ?
Where Are We Going ?
एक   of  Post-Impressionist  पॉल  Gauguin 's most famous paintings .
The  अर्थ   of   जीवन   is   a  philosophical question concerning  the  significance  of  life  or   अस्तित्व   in  general  .
It  can  also be  expressed  in different  फ़ॉर्म  , such  as  `` Why are we here ? `` ,  ``  What  is  life all about ? ``  ,  and `` What is the  purpose  of existence ? ''
It has been the subject  of  much philosophical , scientific  ,  and theological speculation  throughout  history .
There have been  a   विशाल  number of proposed answers to these  सवाल  from many different  सांस्कृतिक  and  वैचारिक  backgrounds .
The meaning of life  is  in the philosophical  और   धार्मिक   conceptions  of existence , social  ties  ,  चेतना  , and  सुख  ,  और  borders  on  many other issues , such as  सांकेतिक   अर्थ  ,  सत्तामीमांसा  , value , purpose  ,  ethics , good and evil ,  फ़्री  will , the  अस्तित्व  of one or multiple Gods , conceptions of God , the  आत्मा  , and the afterlife  .
वैज्ञानिक  contributions  फ़ोकस  primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe  ,  exploring the context and parameters concerning the 'how  '  of life  .
Science  भी   अध्ययन   और  can  provide  recommendations  लिये  the  pursuit  of well-being  और  a  सम्बन्धित  conception of  नैतिकता  .
An  वैकल्पिक   ,   humanistic   दृष्टिकोण  poses the question `` What  is   the   अर्थ  of my life ? ''
The value of the  सवाल   pertaining  to the  purpose  of  जीवन  may  coincide   साथ  the achievement  of   परम   वास्तविकता  , or a feeling  of  oneness  ,  or even  a  feeling of sacredness .
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the  आवाज़ें  of Peter Griffin , Stewie Griffin , Brian Griffin  ,  and Glenn Quagmire .
Family Guy is  an  American  एनिमेटेड  sitcom that  सुविधाएँ   पाँच   प्रमुख  voice actors ,  और   numerous  regular cast  और  recurring guest  सितारों   .
the  principal voice cast  consists  of show  निर्माता  Seth  macfarlane  , Alex Borstein , Seth Green  ,  Mila Kunis (  जो  replaced Lacey  chabert  after  the  first season ) and Mike Henry and now  ,  the  नई  actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton , Adam West , John G.  ब्रेनन  ,  निकोल   सुलीवान   और   जेनिफर   tilly  ,  और  repeat guest stars include Phyllis  diller  , Charles Durning , Rush Limbaugh  ,  and Phil LaMarr  .
Many cast members provide voices for  अनेक   वर्ण  .
The  आवाज़  actors , in portraying  the  various character personalities on  the  show ,  चित्रण  inspiration from celebrities and  पॉप   संस्कृति   .
Family Guy characters have been played by  अधिक  than one actor , after  सदस्यों  of the  दिखाएँ  left  the  series or had  conflicting   दायित्वों  .
Kunis was nominated for  an  Annie  पुरस्कार  for voicing  मेग  Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane  रै  also won an Emmy  पुरस्कार  for Outstanding  voice-over  Performance and an Annie  पुरस्कार  for Best  आवाज़  Acting in  an   एनिमेटेड  Television  उत्पादन  ,  हालांकि   no  other cast  सदस्य   रै  won an award  लिये  their work on  the   श्रेणी  .
1911 Illustration by Edmund  dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea  ''  (  ;  literal translation : `` The  राजकुमारी  on  the   मटर  '' )  is  a literary fairy tale by  hans  Christian  andersen  about a young woman whose  royal  identity is  स्थापित  by  a   परीक्षण   of  her physical sensitivity  .
The tale was  पहला  published with three  अन्य  by  andersen  in  an   inexpensive  booklet on 8 May 1835  in  Copenhagen by C.A  .  Reitzel  .
Andersen had  सुना  the story as a  चाइल्ड  , and  it  likely has its source in folk  सामग्री  ,  संभवतः  originating  इससे  Sweden as it is unknown  in  the Danish oral tradition .
Neither `` The Princess  और  the Pea '' nor  andersen   's  other tales  of   1835  were well  प्राप्त  by Danish critics  ,  who  disliked  their casual , chatty  स्टाइल  ,  और  their lack  of  morals  .
in  1959  ``   the  Princess and the  मटर  '' was adapted to the musical stage  in   a   उत्पादन  called Once Upon a Mattress starring  कैरोल  Burnett .
जर्मनी   अमेरिकी  (  )  are citizens of  the  United States  जो   यहूद  either born in Germany or are of German  ancestry   .
They comprise  परिचय  50  लाख  people ,  बनाना   उन्हें  the  largest  ancestry  समूह  ahead of Irish Americans ,  अफ़्रीकी   अमेरिकी  and English Americans  .
वे  comprise about 1/3 of the German diaspora all over  the   संसार   .
None of  the  German  राज्य  had New  संसार  colonies  .
नहीं  until the  1670s   किया   the  first significant  समूह  of German immigrants arrive in  the  British colonies , settling  primarily  in New York and  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
Immigration continued  in  very large  संख्याएँ  during the  19th   सदी   ,   साथ   कुछ  eight million arrivals from Germany .
वे   यहूद  pulled by  the  attractions  of  land and religious freedom  ,   और  pushed  आउट  of  यूरोपीय  by  shortages   of  land  और   धार्मिक  or  राजनैतिक   दमन  .
अनेक  arrived seeking religious or political  स्वतंत्रता  , others for economic opportunities greater than those in Europe , and  अन्य  simply  लिये  the chance  to  start  भैस   in   the  New  संसार   .
the   आमद  before 1850 were  ज़्यादातर  farmers who  sought   आउट  the most productive land , where  उनके   intensive   खेती  techniques would  अदा   बंद  .
After  1840   ,  many  आए   to   शहरों  , where  ``  Germania '' —German-speaking districts—soon  उभरा  .
German Americans  स्थापित  the first  kindergartens  in the  संयुक्त  States  ,  introduced the  क्रिसमस   पेड़  tradition  ,  and originated popular  अमरीकी  foods such  as  hot dogs and  hamburgers  .
German American celebrations are held throughout the country ,  एक  of the most  well-known  being the German-American Steuben  परेड  in  नई   यॉर्क  City  ,  held every third Saturday  in  September  .
There are  भी   प्रमुख  annual  कार्यक्रम  in Chicago ,  सिनसिनाटी  , Milwaukee  ,  Pittsburgh , St. Louis  और  other  शहरों   .
Like  अनेक  other immigrants that came to the United States , an overwhelming number of people of  जर्मनी  or partial German descent  have  essentially become  americanized   .
The  प्रस्तावना  to the  संयुक्त  States Constitution is a brief  परिचयात्मक   बयान  of  the  Constitution  's  fundamental purposes and guiding principles .
it   राज्य  in general  शर्तें  , and courts  have  referred to  it   as  reliable evidence of , the Founding Fathers  '  intentions  regarding  the Constitution 's  अर्थ  and  कया  they hoped  the  Constitution would  achieve  as it pertains to all of the  लोगों   of  the United  राज्य   .
As the phrase , ``  we   the  people '' suggests that  the   नई  government  originates  from the people of the  संयुक्त  States and it sets  into  motion a question  as  it pertains to that vast population concerning the  व्यक्तिगत  rights and equality among all people ;  इस  can be  देखी  most  broadly  in  the   divide  between  republicanism  and social  लोकतंत्र  .
The history of the  अंतरजाल  began with the  विकास   of   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  computers in  the  1950s .
The public was  पहला  introduced to  the  concepts that would lead to  the  Internet  जब  a message was sent  over   the  ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University  of   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , Los  एंजिल्स   (   ucla  ) ,  बाद  the second piece of network equipment  थी   संस्थापित  at  स्टैनफोर्ड  Research Institute (  श्री  ) .
पैकेट   switched  networks  ऐसे  as ARPANET  ,   चिह्नित  I at  npl  in the UK  ,   cyclades  , Merit Network , Tymnet , and Telenet ,  यहूद   विकसित  in the late  1960s  and early  1970s   using   a  variety  of   प्रोटोकॉल  .
The ARPANET  in  particular led to  the  development of  प्रोटोकॉल  for internetworking , in which  अनेक  separate  संजाल  could be joined  साथ   into   a  network of networks .
In 1982 , the  अंतरजाल  protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized , and consequently  ,  the  अवधारणा   of  a world-wide network of interconnected  tcp/ip   संजाल   ,  called  the  Internet  ,   थी  introduced .
Access  to   the  ARPANET  थी  expanded in 1981 when  the  National Science Foundation ( NSF  )  developed the Computer  विज्ञान  Network ( CSNET )  और  again in 1986 when NSFNET  provided  access  to  supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education  संगठन   .
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in  the   लेट  1980s  और   जल्दी  1990s .
The  arpanet  was decommissioned in 1990  .
The Internet was commercialized  in  1995  जब  NSFNET was decommissioned  ,  removing  the  last  प्रतिबंध  on the  उपयोग   of   the  Internet to carry  वाणिज्यिक  traffic  .
Since the mid-1990s , the Internet has  था  a  क्रांतिकारी   प्रभाव  on  संस्कृति  and commerce , including  the   वृद्धि  of near-instant communication by electronic mail , instant  messaging  , Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) `` phone calls '' , two-way  इंटरैक्टिव   वीडियो   काल्स  ,  और   the   संसार  Wide Web  साथ  its discussion forums ,  ब्लॉग   ,   सोशल   नेटवर्किंग  ,  और  online  खरीदारी  sites .
The research and  शिक्षा   जातियाँ  continues to develop and use advanced  संजाल   ऐसे   as  NSF  's  very  ऊँची  speed Backbone Network  सेवा  ( vBNS ) , Internet2 , and National LambdaRail  .
Increasing amounts  of  data are transmitted  at  higher and  उच्चतर  speeds over  रेशा  optic networks  ऑपरेटिंग   at   1-gbit/s   ,  10-Gbit/s , or more .
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical  शर्तें  : it only  communicated  1 % of the information  बहती   through  two-way telecommunications networks in the  साल  1993 , already  51   %  by 2000  ,   और  more  than  97 % of  the  telecommunicated  सूचना  by 2007 .
Today the  अंतरजाल  continues  to   grow  , driven by ever greater amounts of online information  ,   कॉमर्स  , entertainment , and social networking  .
Southwest  एयरलाइंस  Co. ( ) is  a  major U.S. airline  और   the  world 's  largest  low-cost  वाहक  ,  headquartered  in Dallas  ,   टेक्सास  .
It was established  in  1967 and  अपनाया  its  वर्तमान  name in  1971   .
The airline  रै  more than 46,000 employees and operates more than 3,400 flights per day .
As of June 5 , 2011  ,  it  carries  the most  घरेलू  passengers of any U.S. airline .
as  of April 2013  ,  Southwest Airlines has scheduled service to 84  गंतव्यों  in 41 states and  प्यूर्टो  Rico  .
Southwest Airlines has solely operated Boeing  737s   ,  except for a few years  in  the 1970s and  1980s   ,   जब  it  संचालित  Boeing 727s  .
As  of  August 2012 , Southwest  is   the  largest operator  of  the 737 worldwide with  over   550  in service , each  ऑपरेटिंग  an  औसत  of six flights per day .
In  may  2011 , the airline acquired  airtran   एयरवेज़   ,  with integration of the carriers  अपेक्षित   to  be  पूरा   by  2014 .
on   कूच  1  ,  2012 , the company was  जारी  a single operating certificate , technically becoming one airline .
Rolling  चट्टान  is  a  4.6 %  abv  pale lager launched  in  1939  by  the Latrobe Brewing Company  .
Although founded  as  a local beer in Western  पेन्सिलवेनिया  , it was marketed aggressively and eventually became a national product .
The  ब्रांड  was sold to Anheuser-Busch of St. Louis ,  मिसौरी  ,  in  mid 2006  ,  which transferred  brewing  operations  to   नई  Jersey .
बेनेडिक्ट  XVI  (  , , ; born Joseph  aloisius  Ratzinger on 16 April 1927 )  is  Pope emeritus of the  कैथोलिक  Church .
he  served as  पोप  from  2005  to 2013 .
In  कि  position , he  थी   दोनो  the leader of the  कैथोलिक  Church and Sovereign of  the  Vatican City State .
Benedict  थी  elected on 19 April 2005 in a  papal   conclave   ,  celebrated his Papal  उद्घाटन  Mass on  24  April 2005 , and took possession of  उसके  cathedral , the Archbasilica of  st.  John  lateran  , on  7  May 2005 .
Ordained  as   a  priest in  1951   in  his  देशी   बायर्न  , Ratzinger established  खुद  as a highly regarded university  theologian  by the late 1950s  और  was appointed a full  प्राध्यापक  in 1958 .
After  a   long  career  as   an   अकादमिक  , serving  as  a professor of theology at  अनेक  German  universities—the  last being the University of  regensburg  , where he served as Vice  अध्यक्ष  of  the   विश्वविद्यालयों  in  1976   और  1977—he  थी   नियुक्त  Archbishop of Munich and Freising  और  cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977 ,  an  unusual  प्रमोशन  for someone with little pastoral experience .
In 1981  ,  he settled  in   रोम  when he became Prefect of  the  Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith  ,   एक  of  the  most important  dicasteries  of  the  Roman Curia .
From 2002  जबतक  his election as pope ,  he  was also Dean  of  the College  of  Cardinals , and  as  such ,  the   प्राइमस  inter pares  among  the  कार्डिनल्स  .
Prior to becoming  पोप   ,  he was  ``  a major figure on  the  Vatican  स्टेज   लिये  a quarter of a  सदी  '' as `` one of  the  most respected  ,   influential  and controversial  सदस्यों  of the  कॉलेज  of  कार्डिनल्स   ''   ;  he had an influence  ``  second  to   none   जब   it   आए  to setting church  प्राथमिकताएं  and directions  ''  as  एक   of  Pope John Paul II  's  closest confidants .
He was originally a  उदार  theologian  ,  but adopted  रूढ़िवादी  views after  1968  .
His  सफल   कृतियाँ   बचाव   परंपरागत  Catholic  doctrine   और  values .
During his papacy ,  बेनेडिक्ट  XVI advocated a return to fundamental  ईसाई   मान  to counter the increased secularisation of many Western countries .
He  दृश्य  relativism 's denial of objective truth , and the  denial  of  moral  truths  in   particular  ,  as   the   सेंट्रल  problem  of  the  21st   सदी  .
He taught  the   महत्व   of  both the Catholic Church  और  an understanding of  परमेश्वर  's redemptive love .
पोप  Benedict also revived  a  number of traditions including elevating the  tridentine   द्रव्यमान  to  a   अधिक   prominent   स्थिति  .
He renewed the relationship between the Catholic Church  और  art ,  देखने  the use of beauty as a path to the sacred  ,   प्रचारित  the use of  लैटिन  , and reintroduced  परंपरागत  papal garments , for  जिससे  reason he was called ``  the  pope of aesthetics '' .
He has been described  as   ``  the main intellectual force  in   the   गिरिजाघर  ''  चूंकि   the  mid-1980s  .
Several  of   पोप   बेनेडिक्ट  's  विद्यार्थी  from  उसके   अकादमिक  career  हैं  also  prominent   churchmen  today and confidantes of  उसे  ,  notably  Christoph Schönborn .
On 11  फ़रवरी  2013 , Pope  बेनेडिक्ट  announced his  इस्तीफा   in  a speech in Latin before  the   कार्डिनल्स  , citing a `` lack  of  strength of  दिमाग  and body '' due to his  उन्नत  age .
His  इस्तीफा   became  effective on 28  फ़रवरी  2013 .
He is  the  first  पोप   to  resign since Pope  ग्रेगरी  XII in 1415 , and the  पहला  to do  so  on his  अपना  initiative  चूंकि  Pope  celestine   v   in  1294 .
As pope  emeritus  , Benedict retains the style  of  His  पवित्रता  , and the  शीर्षक  of  पोप  , and will continue  to   पोशाक  in the papal colour of white  .
He  थी  succeeded by Pope  फ्रांसिस  on 13 March 2013 , and he moved  into  the newly renovated Mater  ecclesiae  monastery for his retirement on 2 May  2013..
जेब  stereoscope  साथ   असली  test  चित्र   .
Used by military to  जाँचें   stereoscopic  pairs of aerial  छायाचित्र   .
View of Boston , c. 1860 ;  an  early stereoscopic  कार्ड   लिये  viewing a  झाँकी  from nature
Kaiser-Panorama  consisted   of   a  multi-station  देखने   apparatus  and  सेट  of  स्टीरियो  slides .
Patented  by   A.  Fuhrmann around  1890  .
Company  of  ladies  watching  stereoscopic photographs , painting by  याक़ूब   spoel  , before 1868 .
a   बहुत  early depiction of people using  a  stereoscope  .
Stereoscopy (  भी   पुकारा  stereoscopics or  3d   इमेजिंग  ) is  a   तकनीक  for creating or  बढ़ाना  the  भ्रम  of depth in an image by means  of   stereopsis  for binocular vision .
The word stereoscopy derives from the  यूनानी   ``  στερεός ''  (  stereos  )   ,   ``  firm ,  ठोस  '' +  ``  σκοπέω '' ( skopeō  )  , ``  to   dekh  '' ,  ``  to see  ''  .
Most stereoscopic  विधि  present two offset  बिंब  separately  to  the  बाएँ  and right  नजर  of  the  viewer .
ये  two-dimensional images are then combined in the brain to give the perception  of  3D depth .
This technique is  विशिष्ट  from 3D  प्रदर्शक  that display an image in three full  आयाम  , allowing  the  observer  to   बढ़ाएँ  information about the  3-dimensional  objects being displayed by head  और   नजर  movements .
John Adams  (   अक्तूबर  30 , 1735 ( O.S  .   अक्तूबर  19 , 1735  )  – July 4 ,  1826  ) was  the   दूसरी  president of the  संयुक्त   राज्य   (  1797–1801 ) ,  having  earlier served as the first vice president of  the   संयुक्त  States  .
An American Founding Father ,  he  was  a  statesman ,  राजनयिक  , and a leading advocate of American independence from Great Britain .
खूब  educated  ,  he was an Enlightenment political theorist  जो   प्रचारित  republicanism and wrote prolifically  परिचय   उसके   प्रायः   seminal   विचार  ,  दोनो  in  प्रकाशित  works and in letters to his  बीवी  and  कुंजी   adviser  Abigail as well as to  अन्य  Founding  fathers   .
Adams came to  prominence   in  the  जल्दी  stages  of   the  American Revolution .
A lawyer  और   पब्लिक  figure in Boston , as a delegate  इससे  Massachusetts to the Continental Congress , he played  a  leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence .
He assisted  थामस   जेफरसन  in  drafting   the  Declaration  of  Independence  in   1776   ,   और  was its primary  एडवोकेट   in  the  कॉंग्रेस   .
Later , as a diplomat in Europe  ,  he helped negotiate  the  eventual peace treaty  साथ  Great Britain  ,  and was responsible for obtaining vital governmental  लोन  from Amsterdam bankers .
A political theorist and historian , Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in  1780   ,   जिससे   साथ  with his earlier Thoughts on  सरकारी  , influenced  अमरीकी   राजनैतिक  thought .
One  of  his greatest roles was as  a   न्यायधीश  of  अक्षर  : in 1775 , he nominated  जार्ज  Washington to be commander-in-chief , and 25 years later  मनोनीत   जॉन  Marshall  to  be  मुख्य  Justice of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  .
Adams  '  revolutionary credentials secured  उसे  two terms  as  George Washington  's   वाइस  president and his own election in  1796  as  the  second president  .
During his one term ,  he   encountered   ferocious   हमले  by  the  Jeffersonian Republicans , as well  as  the dominant faction  in   उसके   अपना   federalist   पार्टी  led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton  .
एडम्स   हस्ताक्षरित   the  controversial Alien and Sedition Acts , and  निर्मित  up  the  army  और   नेवी  especially  in  the  फेस  of  an  undeclared naval war ( called the ``  quasi-war  `` )  साथ  France ,  1798–1800   .
The major accomplishment of his presidency was  उसके  peaceful resolution of the  विरोध  in the face of Hamilton 's opposition .
In 1800 , Adams was  पराजित  for  re-election   by   थामस   जेफरसन   और   रिटायर्ड   to   मैसाचुसेट्स  .
He later resumed his  दोस्ती  with Jefferson .
he  and  उसके  wife  ,  Abigail Adams  ,  founded an accomplished family  लकीर  of  राजनेता  , diplomats  ,  and  इतिहासकारों  now  referred  to as the  एडम्स  political family .
Adams was the father  of  John Quincy Adams , the sixth  अध्यक्ष  of  the   संयुक्त  States .
His  उपलब्धियाँ  have received greater recognition in  आधुनिक  times , though  उसके   योगदान  were not initially as celebrated  as  those of  अन्य   संस्थापकों  .
एडम्स   थी  the  पहला   u.S.   अध्यक्ष  to reside in  the  building that  आखिरकार   became  known as the White House .
The  संयुक्त  States ten-dollar  विधेयक  ( $ 10 )  is  a  denomination  of United States  करेंसी   .
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury  (   1789–95  )  ,  Alexander  हैमिल्टन   ,  is currently featured on the  obverse  of the  विधेयक  , while  the  U.S.  राजकोष  Building  is  featured  on   the  reverse .
( Hamilton is one of two  non-presidents   प्रदर्शित  on currently issued U.S. bills .
The other is Benjamin Franklin , on the $  100  bill .
Hamilton is  एक   of  only  चार   लोगों  featured  on  U.S.  पेपर  currency  (   1861  to the  उपस्थित  ) who was not born  in  the continental United States  ,  as  he  was from the West Indies .
The others are  :   अल्बर्ट   gallatin  , Switzerland  (  $  500  1862/63 Legal Tender )  ;  George Meade , Spain ( $  1,000  1890/91 Treasury Note ) ; and Robert  मॉरिस   ,  England (  $  1,000  1862/63   विधिक  Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate  )   .
In  जोड  ,  kamehameha   i  , appears on the  2008  Hawaii  राज्य  quarter  .  )
सब  $ 10  बिल्स  issued today are Federal  आरक्षित   टीप  .
The  ब्यूरो  of  नक्काशी  and Printing says the average life of a $  10   विधेयक  in circulation  is  18 months  पहले  it  is  replaced due to wear .
Approximately 6 %  of  all US banknotes printed in 2009  यहूद  $ 10 bills .
Ten dollar bills are delivered by  संघीय  Reserve Banks in  पीला  straps .
The source  of  the face  on  the $  10   विधेयक  is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait  संग्रहण  of  नई  York City Hall  .
The $ 10  विधेयक  is  the  only U.S. paper  करेंसी  in circulation in  जिससे   the  portrait faces to the left  (  the $  100,000  bill featured  a  portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing to the  बाएँ   ,  but was  प्रयुक्त  only for intra-government transactions ) .
A rider on  a   यामाहा  Waverunner  xl  performing a high-speed turn .
A jetboat is a boat  propelled  by  a  jet of water ejected from the back of the craft .
Unlike  a  powerboat or motorboat  कि  uses a  propeller  in the  जल   नीचे  or behind the boat , a  jetboat   draws  the water from under the  नाव   into  a  पंप  inside the boat , then expels it through a nozzle at  the  stern  .
Jetboats were originally  designed   by   सर  William Hamilton ( who  विकसित  a  waterjet  in 1954 ) for  आपरेशन   in  the fast-flowing  और  shallow rivers of  नई  Zealand  ,  specifically to overcome the problem  of  propellers striking rocks in  ऐसे  waters .
Previous attempts  at   waterjet  propulsion had very short lifetimes  ,  generally due to  the  inefficient  डिज़ाइन  of  the   इकाई   और   the  fact that they  offered  few advantages over conventional  propellers   .
Unlike these  पिछला  waterjet developments ,  ऐसे   as   campini  's  और  the Hanley  hydrojet  , Hamilton had a specific  need  for a  नोदन   प्रणाली   to  operate in very-shallow water ,  और  the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution .
From this ,  the   लोकप्रियता  of the jet  ईकाई  and  jetboat   increased  rapidly .
Through further developments , it  थी  found  the   waterjet  offered several  अन्य   लाभ   over  propellers  लिये  a wide  दायरा  of  पोत   प्रकार   ,   और  as such ,  waterjets  are used  widely  today for many high-speed vessels ,  सहित  passenger ferries ,  बचाव  craft  ,  patrol boats and  offshore  supply vessels  .
jetboats  are  अत्यधिक   maneuverable  ,  और  many  can  , from full speed  ,  be reversed  और  brought to a stop within  छोटी  more than their own length , in a  maneuver   ज्ञात   as   a  `` crash stop  ''  .
the  well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is a  high-speed   maneuvre  where the boat 's  इंजन  throttle is cut  ,  the  परिचालन  is turned sharply  और  the throttle opened again , causing the boat to spin quickly around with a large  स्प्रे   of  water  .
There  is  no engineering limit to the size of jetboats , though  the  validity of their use depends a lot  on  the type of application  .
Classic prop-drives are generally more efficient and economical at low speeds , up to about  ,  but as boat speed increases beyond  इस   ,  the extra hull resistance generated by struts ,  rudders  , shafts  (  etc .  )  means waterjets are more efficient in  the  20-50 knot  दायरा  ( up to  )   .
भी   ,  in situations  साथ  very large propellers turning at slow  speeds  (  ऐसे  as tug  नौकाएँ  ) , the equivalent size waterjet  होता  be too  बिग  to  be   व्यावहारिक  .
For these reasons ,  the  vast  बहुमत  of  waterjet  units are  संस्थापित  in high-speed  बरतन  and  in  particular situations where shallow draught  ,  maneuverability , and  लोड   लचीलापन  are main concerns  .
The  biggest  jet-driven vessels  हैं   मिला  in  सैन्य  use or the high-speed passenger/car ferry industry .
South  अफ़्रीकी  's  s  (  लगभग  long  )  are the biggest jet-propelled vessels  so   दूर  .
भी  these  german-built  vessels are  सक्षम   of  performing `` crash stops  ''  .
uveitis  is broadly defined as  सूजन   of  the uvea .
The uvea consists of the middle , pigmented  ,  vascular structures of the eye and includes the iris  ,   ciliary  body ,  और  choroid  .
Uveitis requires an urgent referral  और  thorough examination by an  ophthalmologist  or optometrist along with urgent  उपचार  to control  the   सूजन   .
eric  ``  e  . ''
मर्फी   is  a fictional character  on   the  comedy-drama television series Entourage  .
he  is  निभाई  by Kevin Connolly .
the   जगमगाता  is  a  1980 psychological  हॉरर  film  उत्पादित   और   निर्देशित   by   स्टेनली  Kubrick , co-written with novelist Diane  जॉनसन   ,  and  अभिनीत  Jack Nicholson ,  शेली  Duvall , Scatman Crothers , and Danny Lloyd .
The film is based on the Stephen King novel The  जगमगाता  .
A  लेखक  ,  जोकर  Torrance ,  takes   a  job as an off-season caretaker  at  an isolated hotel .
His  यंग  son possesses psychic abilities and is able to see  बाते   इससे   the  past  और   भविष्य  ,  ऐसे  as the ghosts who inhabit  the  hotel .
Soon after  settling  in ,  the   परिवार  is trapped in the  होटल  by a  snowstorm  ,  और   जोकर  gradually becomes influenced  by   a   अलौकिक  presence  ;  he  उतरता  into  दीवानगी  and attempts  to  murder  उसके   बीवी  and son .
Unlike previous Kubrick films , which developed an audience gradually by  भवन  on word-of-mouth , The Shining was released as  a  mass-market film , opening at first in just  दो   शहरों  on Memorial  दिन  ,  तब  nationwide a month later .
Although initial  जवाब  to the  फिल्मी   थी  mixed ,  बाद  critical  मूल्यांकन  was more favorable  और   it  is now viewed as  a  classic of  the  horror genre .
Film director Martin  स्कोर्सेसे  , writing in The  रोज़   जानवर  , ranked it as one of the  11  scariest horror  फिल्मों   of  all time  .
Film critics  ,  film students , and Kubrick 's producer ,  जन   harlan  , have remarked  on  the enormous influence the film has had  on   लोकप्रिय  culture  .
The initial European release of The Shining was 25 minutes shorter  than  the American version  ,  achieved by removing most of  the   दृश्यों  taking  प्लेस  outside the  environs  of the hotel .
आँगन  Cola Bottle
Patio  आहार   कोला  was a brand  of  diet  सोडा  introduced by  पेप्सी  in 1963  .
It  थी   निर्मित   in   जवाब  to Diet  रीति  Cola , which was the first diet cola on the market .
Fitness promoter Debbie Drake was  आँगन   आहार  Cola 's  प्रवक्ता  .
In 1964 , Patio released orange , grape , and  रूट  beer  जायका  .
इस  flavor line  थी  not  meant  to  compete   साथ   ब्रांड्स  like Orange Crush ,  लकिन  rather fill  आउट  the  लकीर  .
आँगन  sodas were  उपलब्धियाँ   in   the  cold-bottle market : grocery and  mom-and-pop  stores .
Advertising for Patio was comparatively scarce ; at the time , bottlers were regionally franchised ,  और  related advertising was  necessarily   लोकल  .
In 1964 , Patio diet cola became Diet  पेप्सी  .
The newly branded diet  सोडा  was advertised alongside Pepsi  साथ  the tagline `` Pepsi either way  ''  , which replaced the slogan `` Dances  साथ  flavor '' .
The  छोटी  life span  of  Patio  आहार   कोला   makes   it   a  great addition for bottle collectors .
सबसे  of the  बाकी   आँगन  line of  जायका  were phased  आउट  by the early 1970s , while  a   few  survived until the mid 70s
Infrastructure  is   मौलिक  physical and  organizational  structures  needed  for  the  operation of  a  society  or  enterprise , or the services  और  facilities  जरुरी  for an  अर्थव्यवस्था  to  फलन   .
it   can  be  generally   पारिभाषित  as the  नियत  of  interconnected  structural elements that provide framework  supporting   an  entire structure of development  .
It is an important term for  judging  a  देश  or region 's development .
The term typically refers to  the  technical structures that support a  समाज  , such as roads , bridges ,  जल  supply , sewers  ,  electrical grids  ,  telecommunications  ,   और  so forth , and can  be  defined  as   ``  the  शारीरिक   components  of  interrelated  systems providing  commodities  and services essential  to  enable , sustain , or enhance societal  जीना  conditions . ''
Viewed functionally , infrastructure facilitates  the   उत्पादन   of  goods and  सेवाएं  , and also the distribution of finished  उत्पाद   to  markets  ,  as  खूब   as  basic social services such as schools and hospitals ;  लिये  example ,  सड़कें   enable  the transport  of  raw materials  to  a factory .
In military parlance , the term  refers   to  the  इमारतें   और  permanent installations  जरुरी  for the support , redeployment , and operation of military forces .
To make it simple , infrastructure  is  anything that is needed everyday , an everyday  मद  .
A graphical representation  of  the ideal  इंसान  karyotype
mitochondrial  DNA  .
Human  जेनेटिक   विभिन्नता  is the genetic  मतभेद   दोनो  within and among populations .
There may be multiple  विसंगतियाँ   of  any given  जीन   in   the  human  जनसांख्यिकी  (  जीनों   )   ,  leading  to   बहुरूपता  .
अनेक  genes are  नहीं   बहुरूपी   ,  meaning  कि  only  a  single allele is present in the population : the gene  is   तब  said  to  be fixed .
No  दो  humans  हैं  genetically identical .
Even monozygotic twins  ,  who develop from one  zygote  , have infrequent genetic differences due  to  mutations occurring during  विकास  and  जीन   नक़ल  number variation  .
Differences  between  individuals  ,   भी  closely  सम्बन्धित  individuals ,  हैं   the  key to techniques such  as  genetic  फिंगरप्रिंटिंग  .
Alleles  occur  at different frequencies  in  different  इंसान  populations ,  साथ  populations  कि  are more geographically and ancestrally  रिमोट  tending to differ more .
Causes of  मतभेद   between  individuals  शामिल  the exchange  of  genes during  meiosis  and  विभिन्न  mutational events .
वहीँ  are at least two reasons  क्यों  genetic variation  exists  between  populations  .
Natural selection may confer  an  adaptive advantage  to   individuals  in  a   विशिष्ट  environment if an  allele  provides  a  competitive advantage .
alleles  under selection are likely to  occur   तभी  in those geographic regions  जहाँ   वे   confer  an  लाभ  .
the  second main cause of genetic variation is due to  the   ऊँची  degree of  neutrality   of  most mutations .
Most  mutations  do not appear to  have  any  चयनात्मक  effect one  रास्ता  or  the  other  on   the  organism  .
The  प्रमुख  cause  is  genetic  बहाव  , this is the effect  of  random  परिवर्तन  in the gene pool  .
In humans , founder  प्रभाव  and past small  जनसांख्यिकी  size  (  increasing  the  likelihood of  जेनेटिक   बहाव  )  may   have  had  an   महत्वपूर्ण  influence in  न्यूट्रल  differences between populations  .
the  theory that humans recently migrated out  of  Africa supports  इस  .
The  पढ़ाई  of human  जेनेटिक   विभिन्नता   रै   दोनो  evolutionary significance and  चिकित्सा  applications .
It  can  help scientists  समझे   प्राचीन   इंसान  population migrations as  खूब  as how  अलग  human groups are biologically related to  एक  another  .
लिये  medicine ,  पढ़ाई  of  इंसान  genetic variation  may   be  important because some disease-causing alleles occur more  प्रायः  in people from specific  भौगोलिक  regions  .
New  निष्कर्षों   दिखाएँ  that each human has  on  average 60 new mutations compared  to  their  अभिभावक   .
अलावा   इससे   mutations   ,  many genes that may  have  aided humans in ancient times  प्लेग   इंसानो   आज  .
For example  ,   it  is suspected  कि  genes  कि   allow  humans to more efficiently process food  हैं  those that make people susceptible to  मोटापा   और  diabetes today .
चाय   पार्टी  protesters on the West Lawn of  the   u.S.  Capitol and the  नेशनल   मॉल  at the Taxpayer  कूच  on Washington on September 12 , 2009 .
the   चाय   पार्टी  movement is  an   अमरीकी   राजनैतिक   गति  that advocates strict adherence  to   the  United States  संविधान   ,  reducing U.S. government spending  और  taxes , and reduction of  the  U.S. national debt and  संघीय  budget deficit .
The movement has been  पुकारा  partly conservative  ,  partly  libertarian   ,  and partly populist .
The  गति  has sponsored protests and supported political candidates since 2009  .
the  name of the movement is derived  इससे  the Boston Tea Party  of  1773 ,  an  iconic event in American history  .
Anti-tax protesters in  the  United States have often referred to the original  बोस्टन   चाय   पार्टी  for  प्रेरणा  .
References to the Boston Tea Party were part of  कर  Day protests held throughout the 1990s and  पहले  .
By  2001  , a custom  था   विकसित  among some  रूढ़िवादी   कार्यकर्ताओं  of mailing tea bags to legislators and other officials as  a  symbolic  अधिनियम  .
the  currencies of Puerto Rico  closely  follow the  ऐतिहासिक   विकास   of  Puerto Rico .
As a  उपनिवेश   of  Spain and  the  United States  ,  Puerto  रीको  was granted the use  of  both foreign and provincial currencies .
following  the Spanish colonization in  1502  ,  प्यूर्टो  Rico became  an  important port , with  इसके  own supply of  सुनहरा  .
however   ,   as  the  खनिज   reserves  ran empty  भीतर  the century ,  the  archipelago 's  अर्थव्यवस्था   suffered  .
the  Spanish  क्राउन  issued the Situado Mexicano , which meant that  a  semi-regular shipment of  सुनहरा   इससे  the Viceroyalty of New Spain  होता   be  sent to the island  ,  as a way to provide economic  support  .
between   1636  and 1637 ,  फिलिप  IV of Spain imposed a tax which had to be paid using  a  revenue stamp .
Inspired  by   इस  , Puerto Rico began producing banknotes in 1766 ,  बनने  the first colony to print 8- real banknotes in the Spanish  साम्राज्य  and  जिससे   in  the Spanish government  's  approval of subsequent  मुद्दे  .
The  situado   थी  discontinued during the  19th   सदी  , creating an  आर्थिक  crisis ,  as  a result of Mexico  gaining  its  स्वतंत्रता   इससे   स्पेन  .
Salvador Meléndez  bruna  , the colonial  राज्यपाल  in office , ordered the issue of  प्रांतीय  banknotes ,  बनाना   the  Puerto Rican peso  .
However , printing of these banknotes  ceased  after 1815 .
दौरान  the following decades  ,   विदेशी  coins became  the  widespread currency  .
In the  1860s  and 1870s  ,   banknotes   reemerged  .
On February 1  ,  1890  ,  the  banco   español   de   प्यूर्टो  Rico  थी   उदघाटन  and began issuing banknotes .
The bank designed  चार  series and placed  तीन  in circulation under  स्पेनी  rule .
In 1895 ,  a  Royal  डिक्री   ordered  the  उत्पादन   of  provincial peso coins  .
On August  13  , 1898 , the Spanish-American War ended with Spain ceding Puerto Rico to the United States  .
the  Banco  español   de  Puerto  रीको  was  renamed  Bank  of  Porto  रीको  and  जारी   बिल्स  equivalent to  the  United States dollar , creating the Puerto  rican   डालर  .
In 1902 , the  पहला  National  बैंको  of Porto Rico  जारी  banknotes  in   a  parallel manner .
Two more series were  जारी  until 1913 .
After Puerto Rico 's  अर्थव्यवस्था  and monetary system was fully integrated into  the   संयुक्त  States  '   आर्थिक  and  मौद्रिक   प्रणाली  , the  प्यूर्टो   rican  dollars were redeemed for those issued by the  संयुक्त  States  राजकोष  .
the  peso  और   डालर  have been followed by other  समकालीन   मुद्दे  , including  commemorative  banknotes , private  करेंसी  , and a quarter coin designed with Fort San  फेलिप  del Morro in  the   फेस  .
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase  as   पेप्सी   ,   formerly  stylized  in  uppercase  as  PEPSI ) is a carbonated  नरम  drink that is produced  और  manufactured  by  PepsiCo  .
Created  और   विकसित  in 1893 and introduced as  ब्रैड  's Drink  ,   it   थी  renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28 , 1898 , then to  पेप्सी  in 1961  .
The Book of Ezekiel is the  तीसरा  of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible , following the books  of  Isaiah and  यिर्मयाह   और  preceding the  किताब  of the Twelve .
(  The order is somewhat  अलग  in the  ईसाई   बूढ़ा  Testament  )  .
It derives its name from  ,  and records the visions of ,  the   6th   सदी   bc  priest  और   नबी  Ezekiel .
according  to the book , the prophet ,  exiled   in  Babylon , experienced  a   श्रेणी   of  seven visions  दौरान   the  22 years from 593 to  571  BC , a period which spans the final  विनाश  of Jerusalem in  586  .
The  visions   ,   और  the book ,  हैं  structured around three themes :  (   1  )  निर्णय  on Israel (  अध्याय  1-24 ) ; (  2  )  निर्णय  on  the  nations ( chapters 25-32 )  ;   और   भविष्य  blessings  लिये  Israel ( chapters 33-48  )  .
नई  Orleans ( or  ,  locally  or   ;  ) is a major United States port and the largest city and  महानगर  area in the  राज्य  of Louisiana  .
The population of the city was  343,829   as  of the  2010  U.S.  जनसांख्यिकी  .
The  नई  Orleans  महानगर  area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical  क्षेत्रफल  )  था  a population  of  1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th  largest  in the United States .
The New  orleans–metairie–bogalusa  Combined Statistical Area  ,  a larger trading  क्षेत्रफल   ,  had  a  2010 population of  1,214,932  .
the  city is  नामित  after Orléans  ,  a city located on the Loire  नदी  in Centre  ,  France , and  is  well  ज्ञात  for its distinct French  क्रियोल   वास्तुकला   ,   as  well as its  cross-cultural  and multilingual heritage .
नई  Orleans is also famous for its  भोजन   ,   म्यूज़िक  ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz  )   ,   और  its  सालाना   जश्न  and  त्यौहार   ,   सबसे  notably Mardi  ग्रा  .
The city  is  often referred to as the `` most unique  ''  in  अमेरिका  .
New Orleans is located in  southeastern  Louisiana , straddling the  मिसिसिपी  River .
The  नगर   और   ऑरलियन्स  Parish ( ) are .
the  city and  मोहल्ला  are  bounded  by  the  parishes of  st.   tammany   to   the  north  ,  St. Bernard to the east , Plaquemines to  the  south  और  Jefferson to the  दक्षिण  and west  .
Lake Pontchartrain  ,  part of  जिससे  is  शामिल  in the city limits ,  झूठ  to  the   उत्तर   और  Lake Borgne  झूठ  to  the  east .
The National Birth Control League was a birth control organization in  the  United States .
it  was founded in March 1915  by   मरियम  Dennett ,  क्लारा   gruening  Stillman and Jessie  एशले   .
इसके  main  purpose  was to  overturn  the laws  जिससे  banned  contraceptives  from the U.S. mails .
Campaigns were mounted in New York , but  in  1919 the  लीग  was disbanded  और  reformed  into  the Voluntary  parenthood  League .
कर्कट  , known medically as a  malignant  neoplasm ,  is  a broad group  of   विभिन्न  diseases , all involving  unregulated  cell growth  .
In cancer  ,  cells  divide  and grow uncontrollably ,  forming   malignant  tumors , and invade nearby  भाग   of  the body .
The cancer may also  स्प्रेड  to more distant  भाग  of the body  through  the  lymphatic  system  or   bloodstream  .
Not all tumors are  cancerous   .
Benign tumors do not grow  uncontrollably   ,  do  नहीं   invade   neighboring   ऊतकों   ,  and do  नहीं  spread throughout the body .
There are over 200 different known cancers that  पहुँचकर   इंसानो  .
Determining  कया  causes  कर्कट   is   जटिल   .
अनेक   बाते  are known to increase the  रिस्क  of  कर्कट   ,   सहित   तम्बाकू  use , certain infections , radiation  ,  lack  of  physical activity , obesity  ,  and environmental  प्रदूषक  .
These can  सीधे   क्षति  genes or combine  साथ  existing  जेनेटिक   त्रुटियां   भीतर  cells to  कारण  the disease .
Approximately  पाँच   to  ten  प्रतिशत  of  cancers   हैं  entirely hereditary  .
Cancer  can   be  detected in  a  number of ways , including the  उपस्थिति   of  certain signs and symptoms , screening tests ,  or  medical imaging .
एकबार   a  possible cancer is detected it is diagnosed by  microscopic  examination of a tissue sample .
Cancer  is  usually  treated  with chemotherapy ,  विकिरण  therapy and surgery .
The chances of  surviving  the disease vary  greatly   by   the  type and location of the  कर्कट  and  the  extent of disease at  the  start  of  treatment  .
While cancer can  affect  people of all ages , and a few types of  कर्कट  are  अधिक  common in  children   ,  the risk of developing  कर्कट   generally  increases with age .
in  2007  ,  cancer caused about  13  % of all  इंसान  deaths worldwide ( 7.9 million ) .
दरों  are rising as  अधिक  people live to  an  old age  और  as  द्रव्यमान  lifestyle changes occur  in  the developing world .
Spring ski  touring  on  hardangervidda   ,   नार्वे
Skiing is  a  recreational activity and  प्रतिस्पर्धी   खेल  in which the  भागीदार  attaches  long   धावक   or  skis to boots  or  shoes on  the   फीट   और  uses them  to  travel on top  of   हिम  .
Aside from recreation and competition  ,  skiing has  महरूम  used  लिये  military purposes and  भी   यात्राएं  in  क्षेत्रों  that experience heavy  हिमपात  .
अनेक   प्रकार   of   प्रतिस्पर्धी  skiing events are  पहचाना  by  the  International  ओलम्पिक  Committee , and the International Ski Federation .
John Maynard  keynes   ,  1st  सामन्त   keynes  , CB , FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 April 1946 ) was a British  अर्थशास्त्री   जिनकी  ideas have fundamentally  प्रभावित  the  सिद्धान्त   और  practice of modern macroeconomics  ,  and  सूचित  the  आर्थिक   नीतियों   of  governments .
He  निर्मित   on   और   greatly  refined earlier work  on   the  causes of business cycles , and is  widely   माना   to  be one of the founders of  आधुनिक  macroeconomics  और  the most influential economist  of  the  20th   सदी   .
His ideas are  the  basis  लिये  the school of thought known  as  Keynesian economics , as  खूब  as  इसके  various offshoots  .
In many ways , subsequent developments in  20th  century economics can be  viewed  as either building on Keynes '  विचार  or reacting against  उन्हें  .
in  the  1930s  ,  keynes  spearheaded a  क्रान्ति  in  आर्थिक  thinking  ,   overturning  the  पुरानी  ideas  of   neoclassical  economics that held  कि  free markets  होता  , in  the  short  to  medium  पद  ,  automatically  provide full employment ,  as   long   as  workers were  लचीली  in their wage demands .
Keynes  बजाय   argued  that aggregate demand determined the  overall  level of  आर्थिक   कार्यकलाप  , and that inadequate  कुल  demand could  सीसे  to prolonged  अवधि  of  ऊँची   बेरोजगारी  .
he  advocated the use of  फिस्कल  and monetary measures to mitigate  the  adverse effects of economic  recessions  and depressions  .
following  the outbreak of the Second  संसार  War  ,  Keynes 's  विचार   concerning  economic policy were  अपनाया   by   अग्रणी   पश्चिमी  economies .
In 1942 , Keynes was  awarded  a hereditary peerage as Baron Keynes of Tilton  in  the  काउंटी  of Sussex .
Keynes  died  in 1946  ,  but during  the  1950s and  1960s   the  success of Keynesian economics  resulted   in   लगभग   सब  capitalist governments  adopting  its policy  सुझाव   .
Keynes  's  influence  waned  in the  1970s  ,  partly  as a  परिणाम   of  problems  कि  began  to  afflict the  anglo-american  economies  इससे   the  start of the  दशक  , and  partly   क्युकी   of  critiques  इससे   मिल्टन  Friedman and  अन्य  economists  जो  were pessimistic  परिचय  the ability of  सरकारें  to regulate the business  साईकिल  with fiscal  नीति   .
However , the  आगमन  of  the   वैश्विक  financial crisis in  2007  caused a  पुनरुत्थान  in Keynesian thought .
Keynesian  अर्थशास्त्र   provided  the theoretical underpinning for economic policies undertaken  in   जवाब  to the crisis by Presidents  जार्ज  W. Bush  और   बराक  Obama of  the  United States , Prime Minister Gordon Brown  of  the United Kingdom  ,   और  other heads  of  governments .
In 1999 , Time  पत्रिका  included Keynes in their list of the 100 most important  और   influential   लोगों  of the 20th century , commenting that :  ``  His radical idea that governments should  खर्च   धन  they do  n't  have may have saved capitalism . ''
in   जोड  to  होने  an  अर्थशास्त्री  , Keynes was also  a   सिविल  servant ,  a  director  of   the   अंग्रेजों  Eugenics Society  ,  a director  of  the Bank  of  England ,  a  patron  of  the arts and an art  कलेक्टर   ,  a part of the Bloomsbury  समूह   of   intellectuals  ,  an  advisor to several charitable trusts , a  लेखक  ,  a  philosopher , a  निजी  investor  ,  and a  किसान   .
इस  1768  parchment  (  612×502  mm )  by  Jekuthiel Sofer  emulated  the 1675 Ten  आयतें  at the  एम्सटर्डम  Esnoga  synagogue  .
the  Ten  आयतें  , also  ज्ञात   as   the  Decalogue  ,  are  a  set of  biblical   कानून   relating  to ethics and worship , which play a  आधारभूत  role in Judaism  ,  Islam and Christianity  .
They include  निर्देश  to worship only  परमेश्वर  ,  to  keep the sabbath holy and prohibitions against  idolatry  ,  इनकार  , murder ,  चोरी  , deception and adultery .
Different groups follow  थोड़ा  different traditions for  interpreting  and numbering them .
The Ten Commandments appear  twice  in  the  Hebrew Bible , in the books of  exodus  and Deuteronomy  .
According to the  स्टोरी  in  exodus   ,   परमेश्वर  inscribed  उन्हें   on  two stone tablets , which he gave to Moses  on  Mount Sinai  .
Modern scholarship has found likely influences in Hittite and  mesopotamian  laws and treaties  ,  but  is  divided  over  exactly  जब  the Ten Commandments were written and  जो  wrote  उन्हें  .
The discography of the English alternative  चट्टान  band The Smiths consists of four studio albums , one extended  खेल  ( EP ) , one  सजीव   एल्बम  ,  टेन   संकलन  albums  ,  twenty singles , one video  एल्बम  and  चौदह  music videos  on  the  अशिष्ट  Trade  ,  Sire  और   wea  record  लेबल्स  .
the  band was  formed  in 1982 in Manchester  by  vocalist Morrissey , guitarist  जॉनी  Marr ,  बास   खिलाड़ी   एंडी  Rourke and  वादक  Mike Joyce .
Despite being championed  by   बीबीसी   रेडियो  1 disc jockey John  छिलके   ,  the band 's debut  सिंगल  , `` Hand in Glove `` ( May 1983  )  , failed  to  chart  .
Its follow-up , `` This Charming Man  ``   (  October  1983  ) ,  मिले  with critical acclaim and reached number  twenty-five  on  the   uk  Singles Chart .
The Smiths '  cult  status  थी  followed by  मुख्यधारा  success in 1984 , as they reached number twelve in the UK with the `` What Difference Does  it  Make ?  ``  single and reached  क्रमांक  two on the  uk   एल्बम  Chart with their debut album , The  smiths  ( 1984  )  .
Their next three singles all  पहुँचे  the top twenty of the  चार्ट  in the UK , helping to consolidate their previous chart success .
The next studio album  ,  Meat Is Murder  (  1985 )  ,   पहुँचे   the   शीर्ष  of the British charts ; however , the only single to be released from the album ,  ``  That  चुटकुला  Is n't Funny  anymore  `` ( 1985 )  ,  failed to  ब्रेक   the  UK Top 40 .
Returning to form , The Smiths ' next  छह  singles  सब   पहुँचे  the higher than number thirty in the  uk  and their third album , The  महारानी  Is Dead (  1986  ) , reached  क्रमांक  two in the UK .
Despite the  बैंड  's  चार्ट   कामयाबी   ,  Marr left the group in August  1987   due  to a  strained  relationship  साथ  Morrissey  .
Failing to find a replacement  ,  The  smiths  disbanded by the  समय  their final  स्टुडियो  album  ,  Strangeways ,  यहाँ  We Come  ,   थी  released in  सितंबर  that year  .
Strangeways  ,   यहाँ  We Come  पहुँचे  number two  in  the UK and became the band 's highest-charting release in  the  United States when it reached number  fifty-five  on the Billboard 200  .
In early 1992  ,   wea  acquired the entire  वापस  catalogue of The  smiths  and produced two compilations  –  Best ... I and ... Best II  –  the  पहला   of   जिससे   पहुँचे   the  top  of  the UK Albums Chart .
wea  released two  further   singles  compilations in 1995 and 2001  ,  with  a  further compilation  ,  The  ध्वनि   of  The Smiths ,  released  in November 2008 .
Gone  साथ  the Wind is  a  novel written by  मार्गरेट   मिशेल  , first published in 1936  .
It is often placed  in  the  साहित्यिक  sub-genre of the  ऐतिहासिक   रोमांस  novel .
however  ,  it   रै  been  argued  the novel is a  ``  near  मिस  '' and does not contain all of the elements of  the  romance genre  ,  making  it  simply  a  historical  अनोखा  .
the  story is set  in   क्लेटन  County  ,  Georgia , and  अटलांटा  during the American Civil War  और  Reconstruction  .
It depicts the experiences  of   स्कारलेट  O'Hara  ,  the spoiled daughter  of   a  well-to-do plantation owner , who must use every means at  उसके   निपटान  to  आइये   आउट   of  the poverty  वो   पाता  herself in after Sherman 's ``  कूच  to the  समुद्र  '' .
Margaret  मिशेल  began writing Gone with  the  Wind  in   1926   to   pass  the time while  recovering  from  an   auto-crash   चोट  that refused to heal .
In April  1935  ,  हेरोल्ड  Latham of Macmillan , an editor who was looking for new fiction , read what  वो  had written  और   देखी  that  it  could be  a  best-seller .
After  लैथम   सहमत   to   प्रकाशित   the  book  ,  Mitchell  worked  for  another  six months checking  the   ऐतिहासिक  references  ,  and rewrote the opening chapter several times .
Mitchell and her husband John Marsh  ,  a copy  एडिटर   by  trade ,  संपादित  the  फाइनल  version of  the  novel .
Mitchell  लिखा  the  किताब  's final  पल   पहला  ,  और  then wrote the  कार्यक्रम  that led  up  to it .
As to what became of her lovers ,  रहेट  and Scarlett  ,  after  the  novel ended , Mitchell did not know ,  और   कहा  ,  ``  For all I know ,  रहेट   may  have found someone else who was less  मुश्किल  . ''
Mitchell received the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction  लिये  the book in  1937   .
The book was adapted into a  1939  American  फिल्मी  .
गए  with the Wind is  the  only novel by  मिशेल   प्रकाशित   दौरान  her lifetime .
Endodontics ( from  the  Greek  endo  `` inside '' ; and odons `` tooth ''  )   is  one of  the  dental  specialties  recognized by the American Dental Association , Royal  कॉलेज  of Dentists of  कनाडा  , and Royal Australasian College  of  Dental Surgeons , and deals with the tooth pulp and  the  tissues surrounding the  रूट  of a tooth  .
endodontists  perform a variety  of  procedures  सहित  endodontic therapy  (  commonly  ज्ञात   as  `` root canal  चिकित्सा  '' ) , endodontic retreatment , surgery  ,   treating  cracked teeth  ,  and treating  दंत  trauma  .
रूट   कनाल   चिकित्सा  is one of the most common procedures .
If the pulp  (  containing  nerves   ,  arterioles , venules , lymphatic  ऊतक  , and fibrous tissue  )  becomes diseased  or   घायल  ,  endodontic  treatment  is  required  to  save the tooth .
सीरियल   संलग्न  SCSI ( SAS ) is a  point-to-point  serial  प्रोटोकॉल   कि   चालें  data  to  and from computer storage devices such  as  hard drives and tape drives .
SAS replaces  the   पुरानी  Parallel SCSI  (  pronounced ``  scuzzy  '' ) bus technology that first  appeared  in  the  mid-1980s .
SAS , like its predecessor , uses the standard SCSI  कमांड  set .
SAS offers backward compatibility with second-generation SATA drives .
sata  3 Gbit/s drives may be connected  to   sas  backplanes , but SAS drives  can  not  कनेक्ट  to SATA  backplanes   .
The  t10  technical committee of  the  International Committee for Information  प्रौद्योगिकी   मानकों  ( INCITS )  develops   और  maintains  the   sas  protocol  ;   the  SCSI  व्यापार   संघ  (  scsita  ) promotes the  प्रौद्योगिकी  .
भाग  of  the  constitutional provision  as  it appeared in  1787
औकात   as  a  natural-born  citizen of  the   संयुक्त  States  is  one  of  the eligibility requirements established  in  the  संयुक्त  States Constitution for election  to   the   दफ्तर   of   अध्यक्ष  or Vice President .
इस  requirement was intended  to  protect the nation from foreign influence .
The Constitution does not define the phrase natural-born  नागरिक   ,  and various opinions have been offered  over  time regarding its  precise  meaning  .
A 2011 Congressional Research Service report  stated
The natural-born-citizen clause  रै  been  उल्लेखित   in  passing  in  several decisions  of  the United States Supreme Court and lower courts dealing with the question  of  eligibility  लिये  citizenship by birth , but the Supreme  अदालत   रै  never  सीधे  addressed the  सवाल  of a specific presidential or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as  a  natural-born citizen  .
kurtis   यूजीन   ``  Kurt '' Warner  (  born  जून  22 ,  1971  ) is a  पूर्व   अमरीकी  football player  .
He  निभाई  quarterback for three National Football  लीग  (  एनएफएल  ) teams : the St. Louis Rams ,  the  New York Giants  ,  and the Arizona  कार्डिनल्स  .
He was originally signed by the  ग्रीन   खाड़ी  Packers as an undrafted  फ़्री   एजेंट   in  1994 after playing college football at Northern Iowa .
Warner  होता  go on to be considered the  बेहतरीन  undrafted player  of   सब  time  ,  following a 12-year career  regarded  as one of the  महानतम  stories in NFL  इतिहास   .
Warner  पहला   attained   स्टारडम   जबकि  playing for the  st.   लुई  Rams from 1998 to  2003  , where  he  won two  एनएफएल   mvp  awards  in  1999  और  2001  as  well as the Super  कटोरी  MVP  पुरस्कार   in  Super Bowl XXXIV .
he   led   the  2008 Arizona Cardinals to  सुपर   कटोरी  XLIII  (   the   मताधिकार  's  पहला  Super Bowl berth ) , and  owns  the  तीन  highest single-game passing yardage totals in Super  कटोरी  history  .
Warner  फिलहाल   holds  the  seventh-highest  career  passer  rating  of  all-time ( 93.7  )  , and the  third-highest   करियर  completion percentage in NFL history with  65.5  % .
In 13 career playoff games , Warner  बाँधने  first all-time in completion  प्रतिशत  ( 66.5 % ) ,  गज   प्रति  attempt ( 8.55 ) , and second in passer rating ( 102.8  )  .
He  भी   holds   the   उच्चतम  completion percentage for  a  single game during the regular season , at 92.3 percent ( 24/26 ) , on September 20  ,  2009  ,  against the Jacksonville Jaguars .
He announced his retirement on January  29  ,  2010.   <   संदर्भ  name='CNN  2010-01-29  '  >
Janet Kay Ruthven Hagan  (   ;  born May  26   ,  1953 )  is   the  junior United  राज्य  Senator from North Carolina , in office since January 2009  .
previously  she  परोसा  in the North Carolina  सीनेट  from 1999  to  2009 .
She is  a  member of the Democratic  पार्टी  and is viewed as  a  moderate  सदस्य  of her party .
When Hagan defeated  रिपब्लिकन  incumbent  एलिज़ाबेथ   dole   in  the 2008  संयुक्त  States Senate election , she became the  पहला  woman  to   शिकस्त   an  incumbent woman  in  a  सीनेट  election  .
the  Heisman Memorial Trophy  पुरस्कार  ( usually known colloquially as the Heisman Trophy or  the   heisman  ) , is awarded annually  to   the   खिलाड़ी  deemed  the   सबसे   बकाया  player in collegiate football .
It was created  in  1935 as the  शहर  Athletic Club trophy and renamed in 1936 following the death of the Club  's  athletic director , John Heisman ( former Brown University  और   विश्वविद्यालयों  of Pennsylvania player ;  सिर  football coach  at   oberlin   कॉलेज  , Auburn University , Clemson University , Rice University ,  और  the University  of  Pennsylvania ; and football , basketball , and baseball head  कोच  and athletic director at Georgia Tech  )  .
The award is  प्रस्तुत  by  the   heisman  Trophy Trust in early  दिसम्बर  before the postseason bowl games .
It  is  the oldest of several overall awards in college  फ़ुटबॉल  , including  the  Maxwell Award  ,  Walter  शिविर  Award  ,  and the AP Player of  the  Year  .
The Heisman and the  ap  Player of  the  Year  हैं  the  तभी  awards to  सम्मान  the most  बकाया   खिलाड़ी  ,  जबकि   the  Maxwell  पुरस्कार  and Walter Camp Award recognize the best player , and  the  Archie  griffin   पुरस्कार  recognizes the  सबसे   मूल्यवान  player .
The United  राष्ट्र  Command ( UNC )  is  the unified command structure  लिये  the multinational  सैन्य   शक्तियां   supporting  the  गणतंत्र  of  कोरियाई  ( South Korea  or   rok   )   दौरान  and after  the   कोरियाई  War .
After  सैनिकों  of  the  Democratic People 's  गणतंत्र  of Korea  (   उत्तर  Korea or  dprk  )  invaded  South Korea on June 25 ,  1950  ,  the  United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 82 calling on  उत्तर  Korea  to  cease  hostilities  and withdraw  to  the 38th parallel .
on  June  27  ,  1950  , it  अपनाया  Resolution 83 ,  recommending  that  सदस्यों   of  the  संयुक्त  Nations  provide  assistance to the Republic of Korea `` to repel the armed attack  और  to  restore   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  peace and security to the  क्षेत्रफल   ''   .
Security Council Resolution 84 ,  अपनाया   on  July 7 ,  1950  ,  अनुशंसित  that members providing  सैन्य  forces and other assistance to South  कोरियाई  `` make such forces  और  other  सहायता  available  to  a  एकीकृत   कमांड   अंतर्गत   the  United States of  अमेरिका  '' .
Although the  रिज़ॉल्यूशन  suggested  the  forces under  the  UNC  यहूद  `` United Nations  शक्तियां  ''  ,   और  United  राष्ट्र  itself  could  be considered  a  belligerent ,  in  practice the United  राष्ट्र  exercised no control  over   the  combat forces  ,   जिससे  were  नियंत्रित   by  the United States  .
सबसे  observers  concluded  that  the   शक्तियां   अंतर्गत  the UNC  यहूद  not in law  संयुक्त  Nations  सैनिकों  ,  और  the  अधिनियमों   of  the  unc  were not the  अधिनियमों   of  the  संयुक्त  Nations  .
The  unc  can be  regarded  as  an  alliance  of  national armies , operating  अंतर्गत   the  collective right of self-defense .
On August 29 , 1950  ,  the British Commonwealth  's  27th  infantry  Brigade  arrived  at Busan  to   जुड़ें   the  UNC  ,  which until  तब   शामिल   तभी   rok  and U.S. forces  .
The 27th Brigade moved into  the  Naktong  नदी   लकीर  west of Daegu .
Troop units  इससे  other countries of the  un  followed in rapid succession ;  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , Belgian  संयुक्त   राष्ट्र  Command ,  कनाडा  , Colombia  ,  Ethiopia ,  फ़्रांस  , Greece  ,  Luxembourg , the Netherlands  ,   नई  Zealand  ,  the Philippines  ,   थाईलैंड   और  Turkey  .
The Union of South  अफ़्रीकी  provided air  इकाई  which  लड़ा   alongside   the   एयर  forces of other member  राष्ट्र   .
डेनमार्क  , India , Norway ,  और   स्वीडन  provided  चिकित्सा  units .
Italy provided  a  hospital , even  हालांकि  it  थी  not a  un  member .
the  United Nations Command and  the   chinese-north   कोरियाई  Command signed  the   कोरियाई   armistice  Agreement on  27  July 1953 , ending the heavy fighting .
The armistice  अनुबंध  established the Military Armistice  आयोग   (   मैक  ) , consisting of representatives of the two signatories , to  supervise  the  क्रियान्वयन  of the  armistice  terms .
The North Korean-Chinese  मैक  has been replaced by  panmumjon  Representatives under exclusive North Korean management .
Regular meetings  have   महरूम  stopped , although duty officers of Joint  सुरक्षा  Area ,  commonly   ज्ञात  as the Truce  गाँव  of Panmunjom , from each side meet regularly .
Lincoln Heights is an American family drama television series about Eddie Sutton , a Mission  विस्टा  police officer who moves  उसके   परिवार   वापस   to  his  बूढ़ा  neighborhood , Lincoln Heights  ,  to start a  नई  life and to help out his old  पड़ोस  .
It is a dangerous  प्लेस  to  उठाएँ  a family ,  और  through the many  ट्रायल   the   परिवार  goes through , they  जल्द  learn that settling  in   is  not as easy as it seems  .
जबकि   अधिकारी  Sutton struggles to cope with  प्रत्येक  day life as  a  street cop in Los Angeles  ,  his kids  कोशिश  to  अनुरूप   in  at their new schools and  साथ  their new neighbors .
the   दिखाएँ  premiered January 8  ,  2007 on the  एबीसी  Family network  साथ   13  episodes ordered for the first season .
It was approved for a  दूसरी  season ,  जिससे  premiered September 4  ,   2007  .
Vanessa Hudgens ' song , Say OK had been used in a commercial  to   प्रचार  the second season  .
To  प्रचार  the  तीसरा  season , they showed clips of Cassie  और   चार्ल्स  's  संबंध  to the song ,  crush  by the  अमरीकी  Idol  's  seventh season runner-up ,  दाउद  Archuleta  .
To promote  ऋतु  4 ,  वे   're  using the song  ,  Avalanche  by  Marie Digby  .
the  show 's  थीम   सोंग   थी  written and performed  by  bassist Stanley  क्लार्क  and singer-songwriter Blaire Reinhard .
On  जनवरी   29  , 2010 ,  एबीसी   परिवार  announced the cancellation of  the  series  बाद  four  सीज़न   .
A Christian denomination is an identifiable  धार्मिक  body under a  आम   नाम   ,   ढांचा   ,  and doctrine within Christianity  .
in   the  Orthodox tradition ,  चर्च  are divided often  साथ  ethnic and  भाषाई  lines , into  पृथक  churches  और   परंपराओं  .
Technically , divisions between one  समूह   और  another  हैं  defined  by  doctrine and church  प्राधिकार   .
Issues such as the nature  of   यीशु  ,  the   प्राधिकार  of  अपोस्टोलिक  succession ,  eschatology   ,   और  papal primacy separate one denomination  इससे   another   .
The Roman  कैथोलिक  Church is the largest denomination  साथ   over  1.1 billion members ,  over  half of  सब   ईसाइयों   विश्वव्यापी  , making it the  largest  denomination for any religion worldwide ( although  the  church does not  दृश्य  itself as a denomination , but as the original  pre-denominational  church ) .
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39  %  of  ईसाइयों  worldwide  ,  and  साथ   the   catholics   ,  Protestants ,  anglicans  ,  और  other  closely  related denominations comprise Western Christianity .
The  पूर्वी  Orthodox Church ,  प्राच्य   परंपरागत  Churches and  the   assyrian  Church  of   the  East are  माना  Eastern Christian denominations .
पश्चिमी  Christian denominations prevail in  पश्चिमी  Europe  और  its former colonies .
Eastern Christian  denominations  are represented  ज़्यादातर  in  पूर्वी  Europe  ,   the   मध्य   ईस्ट  and North Africa .
ईसाइयों  have  विभिन्न   doctrines   परिचय  the Church , the body  of  faithful that  वे  believe was established by Jesus  मसीह  , and  कैसा  the divine church  corresponds   to  Christian  denominations   .
दोनो  the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider each of themselves solely to  faithfully  represent the  एक  Holy  कैथोलिक  and Apostolic Church to the exclusion of  the   अन्य   .
Protestants separated from the  कैथोलिक  Church because of  theologies  and practices that they considered to  be  in  उल्लंघन  of their  निर्वचन   .
Generally  ,   सदस्यों  of the various denominations acknowledge each other as Christians  ,  at least to the extent that they have  mutually  recognized  baptisms  and acknowledge historically orthodox views including  the   देवत्व   of   यीशु   और  doctrines of sin  और  salvation  ,  even though  doctrinal  and ecclesiological  बाधाएं  hinder full  नियाज़  between churches .
चूंकि  the reforms surrounding Vatican II , the Catholic Church has referred to Protestant communities  as   ``  denominations '' ,  जबकि   reserving   the  term `` church ''  लिये  apostolic churches , including  the  Eastern Orthodox (  देखिए  subsistit  in   और  branch theory  )   .
वहीँ   हैं   however  some non-denominational  ईसाइयों  who  do  not  follow  any particular branch  .
The panda (  ailuropoda   melanoleuca  ,  lit  .
``  black and white  cat-foot  ''  )  , also known as the  दानव   पांडा  to distinguish  it  from the unrelated  रेड  panda  ,  is a bear native to  central-western  and south western China .
it  is easily recognized by the  विशाल  , distinctive black patches  around   इसके   आँखें   ,   over  the ears , and  आरपार  its round body  .
Though it  belongs  to the  अनुक्रम   carnivora   ,  the panda  's  diet  is  99 %  बाँसुरी   .
Pandas in the wild  होगा  occasionally  खा  other grasses , wild tubers ,  or  even meat in  the   रूप  of birds ,  rodents  or carrion  .
In  captivity   ,   वे   may  receive  मधु  , eggs , fish ,  yams  , shrub leaves , oranges , or  केले   साथ  with specially  prepared   खाना  .
The giant panda lives in  a   few  mountain ranges in central China  ,  mainly in  सिचुआन   प्रांत  ,  लकिन  also in the Shaanxi and Gansu provinces .
As a  परिणाम  of farming , deforestation and  अन्य  development , the panda has  महरूम  driven  आउट  of  the   lowland  areas where it once lived .
the  panda  is  a conservation  reliant  endangered species  .
A  2007  report shows  239  pandas living  in   captivity  inside China and another  27  outside the country .
Wild population estimates vary ; one estimate shows that there  हैं  about 1,590 individuals  जीना  in  the  wild , while a  2006  study via  डीएनए  analysis estimated  कि  this  फिगर   could  be as high  as  2,000 to 3,000 .
Some reports  भी  show that  the  number  of  pandas in the wild is on the rise .
However , the  आईयूसीएन  does not believe there is enough certainty yet to  reclassify   the   प्रजाति  from  endangered  to Vulnerable .
While the  ड्रैगन  has often served as China  's  national emblem  ,   internationally  the panda appears at least as  commonly   .
As such  ,  it is becoming widely used within China in international  contexts  , for  उदाहरण  the  पाँच  Fuwa  mascots  of  the  Beijing Olympics .
the   पतंग   धावक  is a  2007  American drama film  निर्देशित  by Marc Forster based  on  the novel of the same name  by   खालिद  Hosseini  .
it   tells  the  स्टोरी  of Amir , a well-to-do boy  इससे  the Wazir  akbar   खान  district  of   काबुल  ,  जो   is  tormented by the guilt of abandoning  उसके  friend Hassan , the son of his father 's Hazara  नौकर   .
the   स्टोरी   is   नियत  against  a   backdrop  of  उग्र  events , from  the  fall of the monarchy  in  Afghanistan through the  सोवियत  military  हस्तक्षेप  , the mass exodus of  अफगान  refugees  to  Pakistan  और  the United States ,  और  the Taliban regime  .
Though  सबसे  of the film is set in Afghanistan , these  भाग  were  ज़्यादातर  shot in Kashgar , China  ,  due  to   the   खतरों  of filming  in  Afghanistan at the  समय  .
the  majority of the film 's dialogue is in Dari , with  the  remainder  बोला  in  अंग्रेज़ी  .
The child  अभिनेताओं  are  देशी  speakers , but  अनेक  adult actors had to learn Dari .
Filming wrapped up  on   दिसम्बर  21 , 2006 , and  the  film was expected to  be   released   on   नवम्बर   2  , 2007 .
However , after concern  लिये  the safety  of   the  young actors in  the  film  due  to  fears  of violent reprisals to  the  sexual nature of some scenes  in   जिससे  they  appear  ,  इसके   रिलीज   तिथि  was pushed back six weeks to December 14  ,  2007  .
the  Kite  धावक   थी  released on DVD on March  25  , 2008 .
A  hd   dvd  release was announced for the  वही  date , but  थी   रद्द   following  the format 's demise  .
The film was nominated for  the  Golden  ग्लोब  Award for  बेहतरीन  Foreign  भाषा  Film  in   2007  .
The  फिल्मी  's score  by  Alberto Iglesias  थी  nominated for Best Original  स्कोर  at  the  Golden  ग्लोब्स   और  the Academy Awards .
the  legality  of   कैनबिस  varies from  देश  to  देश   .
Possession of  कैनबिस   is   illegal  in most  देशों  and has been  चूंकि   the   शुरूआत  of widespread  कैनबिस   निषेध  in the late 1930s .
However , many countries have decriminalized the possession of  छोटी   quantities  of  कैनबिस  , particularly in North America , South America  और   यूरोपीय  .
furthermore  ,  कब्ज़ा  is  विधिक   or  effectively legal in  the  Netherlands ,  उत्तर  Korea and  होता  be in the  u.S.   राज्य  of  कोलोराडो  and Washington  if  it were not for federal  विधि   ,  which  governs  persons  in  all  राज्य  .
The  औषधीय  use of cannabis  is  legal  in  a  क्रमांक   of  countries ,  सहित  Canada  ,   the  Czech Republic and  इसराईल  .
जबकि  federal law  in  the  संयुक्त  States bans all sale and  कब्ज़ा  of cannabis , enforcement  varies  widely  at   the  state level and some  राज्य  have  स्थापित   औषधीय  marijuana programs  in   कि  contradict federal  विधि  ; two states  (  Colorado  और  Washington  )   have   repealed   उनके   कानून  prohibiting  the  recreational use of  कैनबिस  and replaced them with a  नियामक  regime ,  भी  contrary to federal statute .
Some countries  have  laws that  हैं   नहीं   as  vigorously prosecuted  as  others but , apart  इससे   the   देशों  that offer access to medical  मारिजुआना  , most  देशों  have various penalties ranging from lenient  to   बहुत   कठोर  .
Some infractions are taken more  seriously  in some  देशों  than others in regard to  the  cultivation , use  ,  possession or transfer of cannabis  लिये   recreational  use .
A few  jurisdictions  have lessened penalties for possession  of   छोटी  quantities of cannabis , making  it  punishable  by  confiscation and a fine  ,   बल्कि  than imprisonment .
कुछ   क्षेत्राधिकारs/  drug courts use mandatory  उपचार  programs for young or frequent users ,  साथ   स्वतंत्रता  from narcotic  दवाएँ  as the goal and a few jurisdictions  परमिट  cannabis use for medicinal purposes .
वहीँ  are  भी  changes  in  a  अधिक  restrictive  दिशा  as in  कनाडा   .
Drug  परीक्षण  to detect cannabis are increasingly  आम  in  अनेक  countries and have resulted  in  jail sentences and people  खोने  their jobs .
however  , simple possession  can  carry long jail  वाक्य  in some countries  ,   विशेषकर   in  parts of East Asia and Southeast  एशिया  where the sale  of  cannabis may  सीसे   to   a   वाक्य  of life in  थाना  or even execution  .
loxahatchee  is a community located in Palm Beach County , Florida , United  राज्य  .
it  is located  in  the areas north  of  Wellington and west and  उत्तरपश्चिम  of Royal  ताड़  Beach  ,  Florida and approximately west of West Palm  बीच  .
Loxahatchee is also the name of  the   पोस्ट  Office  कि  serves this area , which  is  under the  zip  code of  33470  .
The name Loxahatchee means ``  कछुआ   नदी  . ''
loxahatchee  is located  भीतर  the  भारतीय  Trails Improvement District  और  the Loxahatchee Groves Water  कंट्रोल  District .
शेर  Country Safari , a drive-through  safari  park , is  स्तिथ   in   loxahatchee  .
In  2006   ,  the state of Florida  स्वीकृत  incorporation of part of Loxahatchee as the Town  of  Loxahatchee  groves  to  become  the 38th  नगरपालिका  in Palm  बीच  County .
The main reason  लिये  incorporating was to better protect the area from encroaching growth and to preserve the rural character of the neighborhood .
Perhaps the most rural area  भीतर  a  बंद  proximity  to  West Palm Beach ,  साथ  lot  आकार   दायरा   इससे  1-20  एकड़  .
Along with The Acreage , it  is  notable for loose  जमीन  restrictions and the native and  exotic  animal presence is  काफी  notable .
seminole  Ridge High School serves the  क्षेत्रफल  .
The Canadian Citizenship Test  is  a  परीक्षण  ,  administered  by  नागरिकता   और   आव्रजन  Canada  (   सीआईसी  )  ,  that is required for  सब  applicants  लिये   कनाडाई  citizenship  जो   हैं  aged between 18 and 54 and who meet  the   मौलिक  requirements  लिये   नागरिकता  .
The test is available in  दोनो  French and  अंग्रेज़ी  , the official languages of Canada .
Renaissance Cruises  ,  originally founded  in   1989  owned by Fearnley &  eger  Rederi  in  Oslo  -  Norway  ,  later purchased by  एडवर्ड  Rudner ( founder of Alamo Car Rental  )   as  the company faltered during  the  Gulf War .
They operated year-round cruise itineraries  to  the Mediterranean , the Greek Isles , Tahiti and the  दक्षिण  Pacific , Northern  यूरोपीय   और   scandinavia  .
the  company ceased operations  on   25  September 2001  और  accommodated up to 220,000  अतिथि   in  2000 .
While  the   कम्पनी   था  been in  ग़रीब   वित्तीय  health for quite some time , the  आर्थिक  decline resulting from the September  11th  terrorist attacks are  credited  with  the   निधन   of  this cruise  लकीर   .
The  बेड़े  is listed under List of cruise  जहाजों  .
It  थी  headquartered in  फोर्ट   lauderdale  , Florida .
Epithelium is one of the four  मौलिक   प्रकार  of animal tissue ,  साथ   साथ   संयोजी  tissue  ,  muscle  ऊतक  and nervous tissue  .
Epithelial  ऊतकों  line the cavities  और   सतहों  of  structures  throughout the body ,  और   भी   रूप  many  ग्रंथियों  .
Functions  of  epithelial cells include secretion , selective absorption , protection ,  transcellular  transport and detection of  सनसनी  .
in   यूनानी   ``  ἐπί  ''  (  ``   epi  '' ) means  ``  on '' or  ``  upon '' , and `` θηλή '' ( ``  thēlē  '' )  अर्थात्  `` nipple  ''  .
epithelial  layers are avascular , so they must  प्राप्त  nourishment via diffusion of substances from the  underlying  connective tissue  ,  through  the  basement membrane .
Epithelia  can   भी   be  organized into  क्लस्टर   of  cells that function as exocrine and endocrine  ग्रंथियों   .
केंट  E. Hovind ( born  जनवरी  15 , 1953 ) is an American young Earth creationist  .
Hovind  रै   बोला  on creation science and  रै  aimed to  मनाना  listeners  to  reject theories  of  evolution , geophysics ,  और  cosmology in favor  of  his interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative  इससे  the  बाइबल  .
hovind  's  दृश्य  are contradicted  by  scientific evidence  और  some  of  his ideas have  भी  been criticized by young Earth  creationist  organizations such as Answers in Genesis .
Hovind established  the  Creation  विज्ञान  Evangelism  in  1991 ,  और  frequently spoke on  यंग  Earth creationism  at  seminars at  निजी   स्कूलों  and  चर्च  , debates , and on  रेडियो   और  television broadcasts  .
Since January 2007 ,  hovind  has been serving  a   ten-year  prison sentence  बाद  being convicted of 58 federal counts , including  12   कर  offenses , one count  of  obstructing federal  एजेंटों  , and 45 counts  of  structuring  नकदी  transactions  .
He is incarcerated at the  संघीय  Correctional Institution at  बर्लिन  ,  नई   हैम्पशायर   .
Bride with Bindi  सजा  forehead
a   बिंदी   (  , from Sanskrit bindu , meaning ``  a  drop , small particle , dot '' ) , or  a   pottu/bottu  ( in Tamil  ,  Telugu ,  और   मलयालम  ) is a forehead decoration  worn  in South Asia  (  particularly  इण्डिया  ,  बांग्लादेश   ,   नेपाल  , Sri Lanka  और  Mauritius ) and Southeast Asia .
Traditionally it  is  a  उज्जवल  dot  of  red  रंग   लागू  in the center  of   the  forehead close to the  eyebrows  ,  लकिन  it can also  consist   of  a  चिह्न  or  टुकड़ा  of  आभूषण   worn  at  इस   स्थान  .
The New York gubernatorial election  of  2010  थी  held  on   मंगलवार  , November 2 , 2010 ,  to  elect the Governor of New York ,  to  serve  a  four-year term that  began  in January 2011  .
लाज़िम  Democratic  राज्यपाल  David Paterson , elected  as   लेफ्टिनेंट   राज्यपाल   in  2006  as  the running mate of former  राज्यपाल  Eliot Spitzer  ,  chose  नहीं  to run for a full-term  .
On  नवम्बर  2 , New  यॉर्क   attorney  General and Democrat Andrew Cuomo defeated  रिपब्लिकन   कार्ल  Paladino  .
Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins received over  57,000   मत   ,  allowing the New York Green Party to be  सूचीबद्ध   on  the ballot  लिये  the next 4 years .
The  प्रमुख  cast of Dragon Ball  at  the end of the manga .
The Dragon Ball  manga  and anime series features an  extensive   डाल   of  characters created by Akira Toriyama .
the   श्रेणी   takes  place in a  fictional  universe , the same  as  Toriyama  's  previous series Dr. Slump  ,  and follows the adventures of martial artist Son Goku from childhood to  adulthood   as  he searches for the seven spheres known as the Dragon Balls , used to summon a wish-granting dragon .
During the  कोर्स  of the story , he encounters allies such as Bulma , Yamcha ,  kuririn   और  Trunks ,  विरोधियों  such  as  Tenshinhan , Piccolo  और  Vegeta ,  और   दुश्मनों  such  as  Freeza and  कोशिका  .
While many  of  the characters are  इंसानो  with  superhuman  strength and/or  अलौकिक  abilities  ,   the   डाल  also  शामिल  anthropomorphic  पशु  and  बाद  ,  extraterrestrial  lifeforms .
The  श्रेणी   भी  includes depictions of  the   आफ्टरलाइफ  , with several characters being  देवताओं  that govern the universe .
250px
The Comanche  हैं  a Plains Indian tribe  जिनकी   ऐतिहासिक  territory , known  as  Comancheria , consisted of present day  पूर्वी  New Mexico  ,  southern Colorado  ,  northeastern Arizona , southern Kansas , all of  ओक्लाहोमा  , and most of northwest Texas .
The Comanche people are enrolled  in  the  federally   पहचाना  Comanche Nation , in Oklahoma .
Historically ,  the  Comanches were hunter-gatherers with a horse culture .
There may  have   महरूम   as  many as  45,000  Comanches  in  the late  18th  century .
Today ,  the  Comanche  स्वदेश  Comanche tribal enrollment numbers  15,191  with approximately  7,763  members residing in  the   lawton  –  फोर्ट  Sill and surrounding areas of  दक्षिणपश्चिम  Oklahoma .
the  Comanche Nation Homecoming Powwow is held  annually  in Walters , Oklahoma in mid-July  .
the  Comanche spoke the Comanche language  ,  a Numic  भाषा   of  the Uto-Aztecan family ,  sometimes  classified as a Shoshone dialect ;  however   ,   तभी  about 1  %   of  Comanches speak it today .
Ethan Frome is a  अनोखा  published in 1911 by the Pulitzer  पुरस्कार  -winning American  लेखक  Edith Wharton  .
It is  नियत  in  the  fictitious town  of  Starkfield , Massachusetts .
The  अनोखा  was  adapted  into a film , Ethan Frome , in 1993 .
टाइम्स  Square  studios  (  तस  )  is  an American  टेलीविज़न  studio located  in   the  Times Square neighborhood of the Manhattan borough of New  यॉर्क  City , New York .
The  स्टुडियो  is  बेहतरीन  known  as  the  उत्पादन  home  of  ABC News ' Good Morning  अमेरिका  ( GMA )  ,   a  morning news  और   बात   कार्यक्रम  and segments  लिये   जीएमए  on  एबीसी   न्यूज  Now .
the  Las Vegas Strip  संसार   of  Coca-Cola museum in  2003
Coca-Cola  is   a  carbonated soft  पेय  sold in stores , restaurants  ,  and vending machines in every country except Cuba and North  कोरियाई  .
it  is produced by The Coca-Cola  कम्पनी  of  अटलांटा   ,  Georgia , and  is  often referred to simply as Coke ( a  पंजीकृत   ट्रेडमार्क   of   the   coca-cola   कम्पनी  in the United  राज्य  since  कूच  27 , 1944  )  .
Originally intended  as  a  पेटेंट  medicine when it was  invented  in  the  late 19th century by  जॉन  Pemberton , Coca-Cola was  खरीदा  out by businessman  asa  Griggs Candler ,  जिनकी  marketing tactics  led  Coke  to  its dominance  of  the  संसार   soft-drink  market  throughout  the 20th  सदी   .
the  company  produces  concentrate ,  जिससे   is   तब  sold to  licensed  Coca-Cola bottlers throughout  the   संसार  .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company  ,  produce finished  उत्पाद  in cans and bottles from the concentrate in  संयोजन  with filtered water and  sweeteners   .
The bottlers then sell , distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending  मशीने  .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises , which is the largest  सिंगल  Coca-Cola bottler in North  अमेरिका   और   पश्चिमी  Europe  .
the  Coca-Cola  कम्पनी  also sells  concentrate  for soda  स्रोतों  to  प्रमुख  restaurants and food service distributors .
the   coca-cola  Company has , on  अवसर   ,  introduced other cola  पेय  under the Coke brand name  .
The most  आम   of   ये  is  आहार  Coke  ,  with  अन्य  including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola  ,  Diet Coke Caffeine-Free  ,  Coca-Cola  चेरी  ,  coca-cola  Zero ,  coca-cola  Vanilla , and  खास  versions  साथ   नीबू  , lime or coffee  .
Based  on  Interbrand  's  best  वैश्विक  brand 2011 , Coca-Cola was the world  's  most valuable  ब्रांड  .
Types  of  bar-lines
In  musical  notation  ,  a bar ( or measure )  is  a segment  of   समय  defined  by  a given number  of   बीट्स   ,   प्रत्येक   of  which  हैं  assigned  a   particular   नोट  value .
dividing  music into  बार  provides regular  सन्दर्भ   अंक  to pin point locations within a  टुकड़ा   of   म्यूज़िक  .
It also makes  लिखा   म्यूज़िक  easier  to  follow  ,  since each  बार  of  स्टाफ  symbols can  be   पढ़ा  and played  as  a batch .
typically  ,  a   टुकड़ा  consists of  अनेक  bars of the same length , and in modern  musical  notation  the  number of  बीट्स  in  प्रत्येक  bar is specified at the beginning of the score by the top number of a time signature ( such as 3/4 )  ,   जबकि   the  bottom  क्रमांक   indicates   the  note  मान  of the beat  (  the beat has a  क्वार्टर  note  मान  in the 3/4  उदाहरण  )  .
The  शब्द   बार   is  more common in British English , and the  शब्द  measure is  अधिक  common in American English ,  हालांकि  musicians  generally  understand both  usages  .
In American English , although  the  words bar and  माप  are  प्रायः   प्रयुक्त  interchangeably  the  correct use  of  the  शब्द  'bar ' refers only to  the  vertical line itself  ,  while the word 'measure '  refers  to the beats contained between bars .
in   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  usage , it  is  equally correct  to  speak of  बार   संख्याएँ  and measure numbers , e.g .  ‘bars  9–16’ or ‘mm .  9–16’  .
साथ   the  same lines ,  it  is  हिकमत  to reserve the abbreviated form  ‘bb  .
3–4’ etc . for  बीट्स  only  ;  bars should be referred to  by  name  in  full .
the  first metrically complete  माप  within a piece of music  is  called ‘bar 1’ or ‘m  .  1’ .
When  the   टुकड़ा   begins   साथ  an anacrusis ( an incomplete  माप  at the head of  a  piece of  म्यूज़िक  )  ,  ‘bar  1’  or  ‘m  . 1’  is  the following measure .
The 19.9  mw  Gemasolar  सौर  plant in Spain features  15   घंटों  of storage and  can  supply power 24 hours a day  .
सौर  energy ,  रौशन  light and heat from the sun , has been  harnessed  by humans since  प्राचीन  times  using  a range of  ever-evolving  technologies .
Solar  उर्जा   technologies  include solar heating  ,  solar  photovoltaics  ,  सौर  thermal electricity ,  सौर   वास्तुकला  and artificial photosynthesis , which can make  considerable  contributions  to  solving some of the  सबसे   तात्कालिक   उर्जा  problems  the   संसार   अभी  faces .
सौर  technologies are  broadly  characterized  as  either  passive  solar  or  active solar depending on the  रास्ता  they capture , convert  और  distribute  सौर  energy .
Active solar  तकनीकों  include the use of photovoltaic  panels   और   सौर  thermal  collectors   to  harness the  उर्जा   .
Passive solar techniques include orienting  a  building to the Sun  ,   selecting  materials with favorable  थर्मल  mass or light dispersing properties ,  और   डिजाइनिंग   स्पेसेस  that  naturally   circulate  air .
In  2011   ,   the  International Energy Agency said  कि  ``  the   विकास   of   सस्ती  , inexhaustible  और  clean solar energy  technologies  will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase  countries’  energy security  through  reliance on an  स्वदेशी  ,  inexhaustible  and  ज़्यादातर  import-independent resource , enhance  स्थिरता  , reduce pollution , lower the  लागत  of mitigating climate change , and  रखना   चट्टान  fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These advantages are  वैश्विक  .
hence  the additional  लागत   of  the incentives for early deployment  चाहिए  be considered learning investments  ;  they must be wisely spent and  need  to  be   widely   साझा   ''  .
Primary  परवाह  may  be  provided in  जातियाँ  health centres .
प्राथमिक  care  is  the health  परवाह   दिए  by a health care provider  .
Typically  इस  provider  अधिनियमों  as  the   प्रिंसिपल   पाइंट  of consultation  लिये   मरीजों  within a  स्वास्थ्य  care system  और   निर्देशांक  other  specialists  that the  रोगी  may need .
Such  a  professional can be  a  primary  परवाह   चिकित्सक  ,  ऐसे  as a general  practitioner   or  family  चिकित्सक  ,  or  depending  on  the  मोहल्ले   ,  health  प्रणाली  organization ,  और  patient 's discretion ,  वे  may see a pharmacist , a  चिकित्सक   सहायक  , a  नर्स  practitioner , a  नर्स  ( such as in  the  United Kingdom  )  ,  a  clinical  अधिकारी   (  such as in parts of Africa  )  ,  or   an  Ayurvedic or other traditional medicine professional ( such as  in  parts of Asia  )   .
Depending on the  प्रकृति  of the health condition  ,  patients may then be referred for  द्वितीयक  or tertiary care  .
`` Ocean Avenue  ''  is a song recorded by  अमरीकी  pop punk group  yellowcard  .
It  थी  released in February  2004   as  the second single from Ocean  एवेन्यू  and  the  third track  .
it  is known for bringing them  into  the  मुख्यधारा   ,   as  it received  numerous  spins  on  MTV and increasing radio airplay .
Ocean  एवेन्यू   is  a street in Jacksonville  ,  Florida , the band 's  stomping   grounds  near their  ऊँची  school , Douglas Anderson  स्कूल  of the  कला  , and  another  street mentioned  in  the song ,  चेरी  Street .
the   नाम   of  Ocean  एवेन्यू   in  Jacksonville is actually  बीच  Boulevard .
वे   बाएँ  their  असली  base behind  जब  they  स्थानांतरित  to Los  एंजिल्स  .
The song was featured on the  much   म्यूज़िक  compilation album Big Shiny  धुनें   9   .
A  मनोचिकित्सक  is a physician who  specializes   in   psychiatry   .
A psychiatrist specializes  in   the   उपचार  of mental disorders .
Psychiatrists are  प्राधिकृत   to   prescribe  medicine , conduct  शारीरिक  examinations , order  और  interpret  प्रयोगशाला  tests , use psychotherapy  और  may order brain  इमेजिंग  studies such as computed  टोमोग्राफी  (  ct/cat  Scan )  ,   चुम्बकीय  resonance imaging ( MRI ) , and positron emission tomography ( PET )  स्कैनिंग  .
Within the framework of the  संसार  Health  संगठन  's ( WHO )  परिभाषा   of  health as a state  of  complete  शारीरिक  , mental and social well-being , and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity , reproductive health , or  यौन  health/hygiene  ,  addresses  the  reproductive processes , functions and system at all  चरण  of life .
Reproductive health , therefore , implies that  लोगों  are able  to   have  a  जिम्मेदार  ,  संतोषजनक  and  safer  sex  जीवन   और   कि  they have  the  capability to reproduce and the freedom to  decide  if , when and how often to do so .
One interpretation  of  this implies that men and women ought  to   be  informed of and to have  अभिगम   to   सुरक्षित  , effective , affordable and acceptable  विधि  of birth  कंट्रोल  ; also access  to  appropriate health  परवाह  services of sexual , reproductive medicine and implementation of health  शिक्षा  programs to  तनाव   the  importance of  महिलाओं   to  go safely through  गर्भावस्था  and childbirth could provide couples with the best chance of  having  a healthy infant  .
On  the  other hand individuals do face inequalities in reproductive  स्वास्थ्य  services  .
Inequalities  vary   आधारित  on socioeconomic status , education level  ,  age , ethnicity  ,  religion ,  और  resources  उपलब्धियाँ  in  उनके  environment .
It  is  possible for example , that  कम  income individuals lack  the  resources for appropriate health  सेवाएं  and  the  knowledge  to  know what is  उचित   लिये   maintaining  reproductive health  .
According  to   the   जो  , ``  reproductive  and sexual  ill-health  accounts for 20 %  of  the  वैश्विक  burden of ill-health for women  ,  and  14  % for men . ''
Reproductive  स्वास्थ्य  is  a  part of Sexual and reproductive health and  अधिकारों  .
This is a  सूची  of episodes for  the  Disney  चैनल  original series The Suite Life on  डेक  , which  aired  for three seasons on  डिज़्नी  Channel  इससे  September  26  , 2008  to  May  6  ,  2011   .
कोर   2   is   a  brand  encompassing  a  दायरा  of  इंटेल  's  उपभोक्ता   64-bit  x86-64 single-  ,  dual- ,  और  quad-core microprocessors  आधारित  on the Core  microarchitecture  .
the  single- and  dual-core   मॉडल  are single-  die   ,  whereas the quad-core  मॉडल  comprise  दो  dies ,  प्रत्येक   containing   दो  cores  ,   packaged  in  a  multi-chip module  .
The  परिचय  of Core  2  relegated the Pentium brand  to  the mid-range market  ,  and  reunified  laptop and desktop  cpu   लाइनों   ,  which previously had been divided into the Pentium  4   ,   pentium   d  , and  pentium  M brands .
The  कोर  2 brand  थी  introduced on 27  जुलाई  2006 , comprising the Solo ( single-core ) , Duo (  dual-core  ) ,  क्वाड  ( quad-core )  ,   और  in  2007  , the Extreme ( dual- or  quad-core  CPUs  लिये  enthusiasts ) subbrands .
इंटेल  Core 2 processors  साथ   vpro   प्रौद्योगिकी  ( designed for businesses )  शामिल  the  dual-core  and quad-core branches .
The  सुपर  Bowl is  the  annual championship game  of  the National  फ़ुटबॉल  League  (  NFL ) , the  उच्चतम  level of  पेशेवर  American football in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  culminating   a  season  कि   begins  in the late summer of  the   पिछला  calendar year .
the  Super Bowl  उपयोग  Roman numerals  to   पहचानो  each game ,  बल्कि  than the  साल  in  जिससे   it   is   आयोजित  .
For example , Super Bowl  i  was played on  जनवरी  15 , 1967 , following  the   1966   नियमित  season ,  जबकि  Super  कटोरी   xlvii  was played on February 3 , 2013  ,  following the 2012 season .
The game was created  as  part of  a  merger agreement  between  the  एनएफएल  and its  then-rival  league  ,  the American Football League ( AFL ) .
It was agreed that the  दो   लीग  ' champion teams would play  in  an  afl–nfl  World Championship Game until the merger was  to  officially begin  in  1970  .
After  the  merger , each league was redesignated as  a  `` conference ``  ,  and  the   खेल  was  तब   निभाई  between the conference  champions  .
Currently , the National Football  सम्मेलन  ( NFC ) leads  the  series with 25  विन्स  to  22  wins  लिये   the   अमरीकी  Football Conference  (   afc   )  .
The  दिन  on which the Super Bowl is played , now  माना  by some a de facto American national holiday , is  पुकारा  `` Super  कटोरी  Sunday `` .
It is the  second-largest   दिन  for U.S.  खाना  consumption  ,   बाद  Thanksgiving Day  .
in  addition , the  सुपर   कटोरी  has frequently  महरूम  the most watched American television  ब्रॉडकास्ट   of  the  साल   .
Super Bowl XLV , played in  2011   ,  became  the  most-watched American television program in history  ,   आरेखण  an average audience  of  111  लाख  viewers  और   लेने  over the spot held by the previous  साल  's Super Bowl ,  जिससे  itself had taken over  the  # 1  स्पॉट  held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of  m*a*s*h  .
the  Super Bowl is also among the most watched sporting events in the world ,  लगभग   सब   होने  North  अमरीकी  audiences , and is second to association football ’s  यूईएफए  Champions League  फाइनल  as  the  most watched  सालाना   sporting  event worldwide  .
Because  of   इसके   ऊँची  viewership , commercial  airtime   दौरान  the Super  कटोरी   ब्रॉडकास्ट  is the most expensive of the year  .
Due  to  the high cost  of   निवेश   in  advertising  on   the  Super Bowl  ,  companies regularly develop their most expensive advertisements for this  ब्रॉडकास्ट  .
as   a  result , watching and discussing the broadcast 's commercials has become  a   significant   पहलू   of   the  event .
In  जोड  , many  लोकप्रिय  singers and  संगीतकारों  have  performed   दौरान   the  event 's pre-game and halftime ceremonies because of the exposure .
Fiona  is  a feminine given name .
the   नाम   फिओना  was invented  ,  and first  प्रयुक्त  , by  the   स्कॉटिश  poet  जेम्स   macpherson  ( 1736–96  )  , author of the Ossian  कविताएं   ,   जिससे  he  claimed   यहूद   अनुवाद  from ancient Gaelic sources ( sources , when challenged ,  he  never produced ) .
The  नाम   थी   subsequently  used as a pseudonym by William  शार्प  ( 1855–1905 ) ,  जो  authored several romantic works under the name `` Fiona Macleod  ''   .
The  नाम  has since  become  popular in England , Scotland  और  Ireland .
The name is considered to be a  latinised  form of the Gaelic  शब्द  fionn ,  अर्थ  ``  श्वेत  ''  ,   ``  fair  ''  .
The  नाम  Fiona  is   भी  sometimes used  as  an Anglicisation of  the   irish-language  name  fíona  , although  ये  names are  वरना  unrelated ( as Fíona is derived from  an   तत्व  meaning ``  बेल  '' ) .
वहीँ  is also a modern  tendency  to equate the  प्रामाणिक  Scottish  गैलिक  feminine  नाम  Fionnghal with  फिओना  .
The name Fiona is  उठती  in popularity  विशेषकर   in   जर्मनी  -speaking countries .
फिओना  was the 49th most  लोकप्रिय  name for baby girls born in 2008  in  Germany .
Fiona  थी  tied for third place in the ranking of most popular names for baby girls born in the tiny principality  of  Liechtenstein  in  2008 .
the  name was the  347th  most  लोकप्रिय   नाम   लिये  girls born  in  the United States in 2008  ,  where  it   रै   क्रमित  among  the  top  1,000  most popular  names  for girls since  1990  and among the top  500  since 1999 .
the   नाम  Fiona  रै   महरूम  particularly popular  लिये  girls of Asian or Pacific  islander  descent in New York City , where Fiona ranked as  the  ninth most popular name for girls  इससे  those groups in  2007  .
Many languages are used , or historically have been used  in   the  United States .
The most commonly used language is English .
There are also many languages  स्वदेशी   to  North America or to U.S. states or  holdings  in the  प्रशांत  region .
भाषाएं  brought to the  देश   by  colonists  or  immigrants  इससे  Europe ,  एशिया  ,  or  other  भाग  of  the  world  मेक   up  a large portion of  the  languages currently used ; several  भाषाएं  , including creoles and sign languages , have  भी  developed in the United States .
लगभग  337 languages  हैं  spoken or signed by  the   जनसांख्यिकी   ,  of which 176  हैं   स्वदेशी  to the  क्षेत्रफल  .
Fifty-two  भाषाएं   formerly   बोला   in  the  देश  's territory  हैं   अभी  extinct .
The variety of  अंग्रेज़ी  spoken in the United States  is  known as American English .
English is  the  de facto national language of the United States , with 80  %  of the population claiming  it   as   a   माँ  tongue , and some 95 % claiming to  बोलो  it `` well '' or ``  बहुत  well '' .
However ,  no  official  भाषा   exists  at  the   संघीय   स्तर   .
There  have  been several proposals to make English  the  national language in  amendments  to  आव्रजन   सुधार  bills ,  लकिन  none of  ये  bills  रै   become  law with  the  amendment intact .
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial  स्तर  , with some states  mirroring  the  संघीय  policy of adopting  no  official language in a de  jure   क्षमता   ,  others adopting English  अलोन   ,  others  officially  adopting English as  खूब   as   लोकल  languages  ,  and still others adopting a  नीति   of  de facto bilingualism .
Spanish is the  दूसरी   सबसे  common language  in  the  देश   ,  and  is   बोला  by over 12 % of the  जनसांख्यिकी  .
The United  राज्य  holds the  संसार  's fifth largest  spanish-speaking   जनसांख्यिकी   ,   outnumbered  only  by  Mexico ,  स्पेन  , Colombia ,  और   अर्जेंटीना  .
throughout   the  Southwestern United States  ,   long-established  Spanish-speaking communities coexist with  विशाल  numbers of  अधिक   हाल  Hispanophone  आप्रवासियों  .
Although many new Latin American  आप्रवासियों  are less than fluent in English , nearly  सब   second-generation  Hispanic Americans speak English fluently , while  तभी   परिचय   हाफ   स्टिल  speak Spanish .
According to  the   2000  US census  ,  people  of  German ancestry make up  the   largest  single  जातीय  group in the United States , and the German language  बाँधने  fifth .
इतालवी  , Polish  ,  and French are still widely spoken among  populations  descending from immigrants from those countries  in  the  जल्दी  20th century  ,  but the use of  ये   भाषाएं  is dwindling as the  पुरानी  generations die .
Russian is also spoken by immigrant  populations   .
Tagalog  और   वियतनामी   have   over   एक  million speakers  प्रत्येक  in the United States  ,  almost entirely within recent immigrant populations  .
Both languages ,  साथ   साथ   the   किस्में  of  the  Chinese language , Japanese , and Korean , are now used in elections in  अलास्का  ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ,  हवाई  , Illinois  ,  New York , Texas  ,  and Washington  .
देशी   अमरीकी  languages are spoken in smaller  pockets  of  the  country , but these populations are decreasing  ,  and the languages are  लगभग  never widely used outside of reservations  .
हवाई   ,  although  having   few  native speakers , is an official language  साथ  with  अंग्रेज़ी   at   the  state level  in  Hawaii .
The  राज्य  government  of  Louisiana offers  सेवाएं  and documents  in  French  ,  as does New Mexico in Spanish .
Besides  अंग्रेज़ी   ,   स्पेनी  ,  फ्रेंच  , German  ,   navajo  and  अन्य   देशी  American languages ,  सब   अन्य  languages are usually  सीखे  from immigrant ancestors that  आए  after  the   समय   of  independence or learned  through   कुछ   रूप  of education .
1990  's Pontiac  ग्रैंड  Am Sedan fender  और   क्वार्टर  panel
On an  ऑटोमोबाइल   ,  a quarter  फलक  ( or  पश्च  wing as it is known in British English  )  is  प्रायः  considered  the  body panel which goes  between  the rear  द्वार  and  the  trunk and  typically  wraps around the wheel  खूब  ;  however   ,   the  similar front section Fender (  गाडी  )  ,  between  the  door  और  the  हुड  ,  is  sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel  .
The  क्वार्टर  panel is typically made of Sheet metal , but is  sometimes  made  of   fiberglass  or  fiber-reinforced   प्लास्टिक  ; although , this varies with  अलग  makes and models  .
A quarter  फलक   is  typically  a  welded on  घटक   of  the uni-body structure or Monocoque .
Replacement  of  a sheet metal  क्वार्टर   फलक  typically  requires   it  to be cut  बंद  the vehicle  और  a replacement part  to  be welded ( or  sometimes  bonded  )  to the  गाडी  .
due  to this  ऊँची  amount of specialized labor  ,  a quarter panel may often be repaired rather than replaced by hammering out the damage , and a body filler sometimes referred to as bondo  to  be applied to finalize  the  original surface .
Shropshire ( or ; alternatively Salop ; abbreviated ,  in  print only , Shrops ) is  a  county in  the  West  मिडलैंड्स  region of England  .
It borders Wales to  the  west , Cheshire  to   the  north , Staffordshire to the east , Worcestershire  to   the  south-east and Herefordshire to the south .
A unitary  प्राधिकार  (  shropshire  Council ) was created  on   1  April 2009 , taking over  इससे   the  previous  काउंटी   परिषद   और   5  district councils , and covers most of  the   काउंटी   .
the  borough of Telford and Wrekin has been a separate unitary authority  चूंकि   1998  but continues to be  शामिल  in the ceremonial county .
the  county 's population and economy is centred on five  कस्बों  :  the  county town of Shrewsbury ,  जिससे   is  culturally  और   historically   महत्वपूर्ण  and is  स्तिथ  in the  केन्द्र  of the  काउंटी  ;  telford   ,   a   नई  town  in  the east which was constructed around  a  number  of   पुरानी  towns  ,  most notably  वेलिंगटन  , Dawley  और   madeley  ,  जिससे   is   आज  the most  populous  ;  और  Oswestry in the north-west , Bridgnorth just to the south of  telford   ,   और  Ludlow in the  दक्षिण  .
the   काउंटी  has many further  मार्केट  towns , including Whitchurch in the north , Newport just to the north-east of Telford  ,   और  Market  drayton  in the north-east of the  काउंटी  .
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a  युनेस्को  World  विरासत   साईट  , covering Ironbridge , Coalbrookdale and a part of  madeley  .
There  हैं  ,  additionally  ,  अन्य   notable  historic  औद्योगिक   साइट   स्तिथ   around  the county , such as at Shrewsbury , Broseley , Snailbeach  और  Highley as  खूब  as the Shropshire  संघ  Canal  .
The Shropshire Hills Area  of   बकाया  Natural  सौंदर्य   कवर   परिचय  a  क्वार्टर  of the county  ,  mainly  in  the  दक्षिण  .
shropshire  is one of  इंग्लैण्ड  's most rural  और  sparsely  आबादी  counties , with the population density  of  the  shropshire  Council area  होने   बस  91/km2 ( 337/sq mi  )   .
the  Wrekin  is  one of the most  प्रसिद्ध  natural landmarks in the  काउंटी  , though  the  highest  पहाड़ियाँ  are  the  Clee Hills  ,  Stiperstones and the  long   mynd  .
wenlock  Edge  is   another  significant geographical  और   geological  landmark .
In the  low-lying  northwest  of   the  county ( and  अतिव्यापी   the   किनारा  with  वेल्स  ) is  the  Fenn 's  ,   whixall   और   bettisfield  Mosses National Nature  आरक्षित   ,  one  of  the most important and best preserved bogs in  ब्रिटेन  .
the  River  severn   ,  Great  ब्रिटेन  's longest river , runs through the county ,  exiting  into Worcestershire via  the  Severn  घाटी   .
Shropshire is  landlocked   ,  and with an  क्षेत्रफल  of , is England 's largest inland  काउंटी   .
the  county flower is the round-leaved sundew .
For Eurostat purposes , the county ( less the unitary district of  telford  and  wrekin  ) is a NUTS  3  region ( code UKG22 ) .
the  two  shropshire  unitary  क्षेत्रों  ( covering all  of  the  ceremonial  county  )  ,  साथ   साथ  the authorities covering the  ceremonial   काउंटी   of  Staffordshire , comprise the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire  ''  NUTS  2  region .
The Big Bang  सिद्धान्त  cast at Comic  कॉन  2009 , from  बाएँ  : Kunal  नय्यर  , Simon  helberg  , Kaley  cuoco  ,  जिम  Parsons  ,   और  Johnny Galecki
the  American  sitcom  The  बिग  Bang  सिद्धान्त   ,  created and executive produced by Chuck Lorre and  विधेयक  Prady  ,  premiered  on   सीबीएस  on September 24  ,  2007  .
the  show centers  on   पाँच  characters : roommates  शेल्डन  Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter  ,  two Caltech physicists  ;  Penny , a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across  the   हॉल  ;  और  Leonard and Sheldon 's friends  और  co-workers  aerospace  engineer  हावर्ड  Wolowitz ,  और   astrophysicist  Rajesh  koothrappali  .
Over  समय  , several  supporting  characters have  महरूम  promoted to  अभिनीत  roles  :  Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring  ;   ऋतु  2  नियमित  ; season 3 guest  )  , a physicist colleague , and , at different times  ,   a  lover  of  both Leonard  और  Howard ;  bernadette  Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season  3  recurring ; season 4-present  नियमित   )  , a microbiologist  ,  Howard 's fiancée and  subsequent   बीवी  , and  पूर्व  part-time waitress  alongside  Penny  ;  neuroscientist  एमी  Farrah Fowler (  ऋतु  3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season  4-present   नियमित  ) ,  जो  joins  the   समूह   बाद  being matched  to   शेल्डन  on a  डेटिंग  website ; and  कॉमिक  book store-owner , Stuart Bloom (  सीज़न   2–5  recurring ;  ऋतु  6-present  नियमित  ) , who replaces  हावर्ड  as Raj 's  बेहतरीन   dost  when Howard is in  स्पेस   .
the  show  भी  features numerous supporting characters ,  प्रत्येक  of whom plays a prominent  भूमिका  in a small group of  एपीसोड   .
The  a-team  is an American action-adventure television series , running from 1983  to   1987  , about a fictional  समूह  of ex– United  राज्य  Army Special Forces personnel who  कार्य  as soldiers of  सौभाग्य   ,  while  on  the run from  the  Army  बाद  being  ब्रांडेड  as war criminals for a `` crime they  किया  n't  कमिट  `` .
A feature film based on the series was  released  by 20th Century Fox on  जून   11  , 2010 .
a  comic  किताब  series , A-Team : Shotgun  विवाह  , began March  9  , 2010 .
डायना  Prince is a fictional  अक्षर   appearing  regularly in stories published by  dc  Comics  .
She  debuted   in   सनसनी  Comics  #   1   (   जनवरी  1942  )   और  serves as  the  civilian and secret identity of the  सुपरहीरो  Wonder Woman .
The character was created by Charles  moulton   और  Harry G. Peter .
Wat Phra Kaew  ,   बैंकॉक   ,  Thailand
There is no official state religion in the  थाई  constitution , which guarantees religious freedom  लिये  all  थाई   नागरिकों   ,  though  the  king  is  required by law to be Buddhist  .
According to the last census ( 2000 )  94.6   %  of Thais are  बौद्धों  of  the   थेरवाद  tradition .
Muslims are the second largest  धार्मिक  group in Thailand at 4.6 % .
Thailand  's  southernmost provinces - Pattani ,  yala   ,  Narathiwat  और  part of Songkhla Chumphon have  प्रबल  Muslim  populations  , consisting  of   दोनो  ethnic  थाई  and Malay .
The southern tip of Thailand  is  mostly ethnic Malays .
ईसाइयों  , mainly Catholics , represent 0.7 % of the population  .
A small but influential  जातियाँ   of   सिखों  in  थाईलैंड  and  कुछ  Hindus also live in the  देश   's  cities ,  और  are heavily engaged  in  retail commerce  .
There is also a  छोटी  Jewish community in Thailand  ,  dating back to  the  17th century .
Since 2001  ,   मुस्लिम  activists , generally described by the Thai government  as  terrorists or separatists , have rallied against  the  central government because of alleged corruption  और   जातीय  bias  on  the part of  officials  .
Thailand 's Department  of  Religion  ,   फिलहाल   अंतर्गत   the  Ministry  of  Culture , is formally responsible for  the  registration of religious groups  in  Thailand URL_http which hold properties through legally  स्थापित  foundations .
It has oversight  ,  along with  the  Immigration Police  ,  over the work permits of missionaries who  हैं  ``  प्रवासी  religious workers  ''  of  सब   धर्मों  .
A value  added   कर  ( VAT  )  is  a  form of consumption  कर  .
इससे  the  परिप्रेक्ष्य  of the buyer ,  it  is a tax  on  the purchase price  .
इससे  that  of   the  seller ,  it  is a  कर  only  on  the value  added  to a  उत्पाद   ,  material , or  सेवा  ,  इससे   an  accounting point of  दृश्य  ,  by  this stage  of  its  manufacture  or distribution  .
The  निर्माता  remits to  the  government the difference  between  these  दो  amounts ,  और   retains  the rest for  themselves  to  ऑफसेट  the taxes  वे  had previously  सशुल्क  on the inputs .
the  value  added  to  a  product by  or  with  a  business is the  बिक्री  price charged to its customer  ,   ऋण  the cost of materials and other taxable inputs  .
A VAT is  जैसे  a  बिक्री  tax in that ultimately only  the  end consumer  is  taxed .
it  differs from the sales tax  in  that , with the latter ,  the  tax  is   एकत्रित   और  remitted to the government only once  ,   at  the point  of   खरीदें   by  the end  उपभोक्ता   .
With the VAT , collections , remittances  to  the  सरकारी  , and credits  लिये  taxes already paid occur  प्रत्येक  time a business in the  सप्लाई   कड़ी  purchases products .
a   रेफरी  calling  a   high-sticking  penaltyHigh
-sticking  is  the name  of   दो   infractions   in  the sport of ice hockey that may occur when  a  player intentionally  or  inadvertently plays with his or her stick  ऊपर  the  ऊँचाई  of  the   कन्धों  or above the cross bar of a hockey goal .
This can result  in   a  stoppage of  खेल  or in  a   दंड  .
In the rules of  the  National Hockey  लीग   ,  high-sticking is defined  as   a   दंड  in Rule 60 and  as  a non-penalty  बेईमानी  in  नियम  80 .
A stoppage in play  परिणाम   if  a high stick comes in contact with  the   पक  and the team who touched it regains  कंट्रोल   of  the  पक  .
However , play usually continues  if   a  player touches the puck with  a  high stick  और   the   opposing  team gains control of the  पक   .
If the puck  goes   into   the  opposing  जाल  after coming into contact with a high stick , the goal is  प्रतिबंधित   .
The level  at  which a stick is considered  too   ऊँची  for a goal is the  crossbar   of  the  जाल   .
however   ,  if a player knocks the  पक   into  his own net with a high stick ,  the  goal is  अनुमत  .
a  penalty  is  assessed if  a  player strikes another  खिलाड़ी  with  a  high stick  .
The player is given a minor penalty unless  उसके  high  स्टिक  caused  an   चोट   ,  in which case  the   रेफरी  has the option to  assess  a  double-minor   ,   प्रमुख  or  मैच  penalty  .
it   is  the referee 's discretion which penalty to  assess  : the  नियम  calls for a double minor for  an  accidental injury , or a match penalty for a  deliberate  attempt to injure  (   whether  the  विपक्ष  player was actually  घायल  )  .
Injury is usually  decided  by the high stick causing  bleeding   ,   लकिन   the   उपस्थिति   of  blood does not automatically mean an extra penalty  is   awarded  .
कुछ  referees have been known to  पुरस्कार  an  अतिरिक्त   दंड  without the  उपस्थिति   of  blood if the referee determines that the injury sustained  थी   sufficient   to   वारंट  a double-minor  दंड   .
ठेठ  modern memory card reader , compatible with many  आम   स्वरुप
A  मेमोरी  card reader is a device ,  typically  having  a  USB interface , for  accessing  the  आंकड़ा  on  a  memory card such  as   a  CompactFlash (  cf  )  ,  Secure  डिजिटल   (  SD ) or  multimediacard  ( MMC ) .
Most card  पाठक  also offer  लिखें   काबिलियत  , and together  साथ  the card , this  can  function  as  a  कलम  drive .
Some printers and personal computers have  a  built-in card reader  .
a  multi card reader is used  लिये  communication with  अधिक   than  one type of flash memory  कार्ड  .
Multi card readers do not have  built-in   मेमोरी   क्षमता  , but are able to accept multiple types  और  styles  of  memory  ताश   .
the  number of compatible  मेमोरी  cards  varies  from  रीडर  to  रीडर  and can include more  than  20 different types .
The number of  अलग   मेमोरी  cards that a  मल्टी  card reader can accept is  expressed  as  x-in-1  , with x being a figure of  मेरिट   indicating  the  क्रमांक   of   मेमोरी  cards  स्वीकृत   ,  such  as  35-in-1  .
There are three categories  of  card  पाठक  sorted  by  the type and  मात्रा   of  the  कार्ड   स्लॉट  : single card reader (  e.g  . 1x SD-only  )  , multi card reader (  e.g  .  9-in-1  )  और  series  कार्ड  reader ( e.g .  4x  SD  तभी   )  .
Some kinds  of  memory cards with their own USB  कृत्यों  do not need the card reader , such as the Intelligent Stick memory card , which can plug directly  into  a USB slot .
The USB  यंत्र  class used is 0x08 .
Bullying is detrimental to students ' well-being  और   विकास  .
Bullying  is  the use of  फ़ोर्स  or coercion to abuse or  intimidate  others .
The behavior  can  be habitual and involve an  असंतुलन   of  social or physical power  .
It can include verbal harassment or threat , physical  उत्पीड़न  or coercion and  may   be  directed repeatedly towards  particular  victims , perhaps on  grounds  of race  ,  religion  ,  gender ,  कामुकता  , or  क्षमता   .
If bullying is  किया  by  a  group  ,  it is called  mobbing  .
The  शिकार  of bullying  is  sometimes  referred  to as a  ``  target '' .
Bullying can  be   पारिभाषित   in   अनेक   अलग   तरीके  .
the   uk  currently has no  विधिक  definition  of  bullying  ,   जबकि  some  u.S.   राज्य  have laws against it  .
Bullying consists of three basic types of abuse – emotional  ,   मौखिक   ,   और   शारीरिक  .
It typically involves  हल्का  methods  of  coercion such as  intimidation  .
Bullying ranges from  सरल   one-on-one  bullying to more complex bullying in which  the   बुली  may have one  or   अधिक   ``  lieutenants '' who may  seem   to  be willing  to  assist  the  primary bully  in  his  or   उसके  bullying  क्रियाएँ   .
Bullying  in  school and the  कार्यस्थल  is also referred  to   as  peer abuse  .
रॉबर्ट  W.  फुलर  has  analyzed   धमकाना  in the  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  of  rankism  .
A bullying  संस्कृति   can  develop in any  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  in which  इंसान  beings interact  साथ   प्रत्येक  other  .
This  शामिल  school  ,  church  ,   परिवार  ,  the  workplace  ,  home , and neighborhoods .
Happy slapping  in   the  Instituto  क्षेत्रीय   federico  Errázuriz  ,  Santa  क्रूज़  , Chile
लौरा  Bush and  rae   leigh  Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on  अप्रैल  4  ,  2007 , in  ऑस्टिन  , Texas  ,  after  the   8-year-old   introduced   mrs.  Bush during announcement of  the  future  खोलने   of   the  Texas  क्षेत्रीय  Office  of  the National  बीच   लिये  Missing and  शोषित  Children .
Rae  leigh  was the first  चाइल्ड  in  the  U.S. to be  बरामद  as a  परिणाम  of an AMBER  चेतावनी  when she  थी  8  सप्ताह   बूढ़ा   in  November  1998  .
An  एम्बर  Alert or a  चाइल्ड  Abduction  आपात  ( SAME code : CAE ) is a child abduction  चेतावनी   प्रणाली  originating in 1996 ,  अभी  employed in 9 countries .
AMBER is officially  a   backronym  for America 's  लापता   :   प्रसारण   आपात  Response , named  लिये   एम्बर   hagerman   ,  a 9-year-old abducted and murdered in Arlington , Texas  in  1996 .
Alternate regional  चेतावनी  names were once used ; in  जॉर्जिया  ,  ``  Levi 's  कॉल  '' ( named after Levi Frady  )  ; in Hawaii , `` Maile  एम्बर  Alert  ''  ( after Maile Gilbert ) ;  और  Arkansas , `` Morgan Nick Amber Alert ''  (  in  मेमोरी  of Morgan Chauntel Nick ) .
AMBER Alerts  हैं  distributed via  वाणिज्यिक  radio stations  ,   अंतरजाल   रेडियो   ,   उपग्रह   रेडियो   ,  television stations , and  केबल  TV  by  the Emergency Alert System and NOAA Weather  रेडियो  ( where they are termed  ``  Child Abduction Emergency '' or `` Amber Alerts ''  )   .
The alerts are also issued  via  e-mail ,  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  traffic-condition signs  ,   the  LED billboards which are located outside of newer Walgreens locations , along with the LED/LCD signs of billboard companies  ऐसे  as Clear Channel Outdoor  ,   सीबीएस   बाहरी  and Lamar , or through wireless device SMS text messages  .
एम्बर  Alert  रै  also teamed up  साथ  Google  और  Facebook to relay information regarding an AMBER  चेतावनी  to an ever  growing  demographic .
Those interested in  subscribing   to   प्राप्त   एम्बर  Alerts in their area  via  SMS  संदेश   can   विज़िट  Wireless Amber Alerts , which  हैं   offered   by  law as  फ़्री  messages .
In some states  ,   the  display  scrollboards  in  सामने  of  लॉटरी  terminals are  भी  used .
The  निर्णय  to declare an AMBER Alert is  बना  by  प्रत्येक   पुलिस  organization ( in many  मामले  , the state  पुलिस  or  राजमार्ग  patrol ) which  investigates   प्रत्येक  of  the  abductions .
Public information  in  an AMBER Alert  प्रायः  consists of  the   नाम   और  description  of  the abductee , a description of the suspected abductor , and a  वर्णन  and  अनुज्ञा  plate number of the abductor 's vehicle , if available .
मोनिका  Samille  lewinsky  ( born July 23  ,  1973 ) is  an  American woman  साथ  whom United States President Bill Clinton admitted to having  था  an ``  improper   संबंध   ''  while she worked  at   the  White House in 1995 and 1996  .
the  affair and its repercussions ( which included Clinton 's  महाभियोग  ) became known  as   the  Lewinsky scandal .
हाउस  of Night is  a  series of vampire -themed  काल्पनिक  novels by American  लेखक   P.   C.  Cast  और  her  बेटी  Kristin  डाल  .
It follows the  adventures  of  zoey  Redbird , a sixteen-year-old girl who has just become  a   ``  fledgling  vampyre  ''  और  is required to attend  the   हाउस  of  रात्रि  boarding school in Tulsa ,  ओक्लाहोमा  .
The series has  महरूम   on  the New  यॉर्क   टाइम्स   बेहतरीन  Seller list for 63  सप्ताह  and  वहीँ  are over  सात  million copies  in  print in North  अमेरिका   अलोन  .
the  sixth novel , Tempted  ,  which  गई  on sale on October 27 , 2009 with a first printing of a  लाख  copies , entered the  यूएसए   आज   बेस्टसेलर  list  कि  week  at  #  1  .
in   जनवरी  , 2010 ,  gezeichnet  ,  a  German translation  of   चिह्नित  , reached the # 1 spot on  the   der  Spiegel bestseller list .
The series has so  दूर  sold more  than  ten  लाख  books  in  39 countries .
Burned was released on April  27  , 2010 ,  और  like Tempted  ,  it entered the USA  आज  bestseller  सूची   कि  week at #  1  .
awakened  , released in January , 2011 , also  डाला  the  सूची  at # 1  .
the  series , which is published by St  मार्टिन  's  दबायें  is planned to include  बारह  books  .
in  2008  ,  plans  लिये   a  film adaptation  यहूद  also  घोषित   .
The  दसवाँ  book in the series ,  छुपा  , was released on October  16  , 2012  .
The  दूसरी  book  in  the  novellas  (  जिससे   दे   पृष्ठभूमि  on supporting characters ) ,  lenobia  's Vow , was released January 31 , 2012 .
Book eleven is currently  पुकारा  Revealed ,  और  the Casts  have  announced that two more  novellas  , Neferet’s Curse , planned to be released  फ़रवरी  19  ,  2013 , and  a   प्रीक्वेल  novel about Kalona , are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and  बारहवीं   किताबे   .
In Greek mythology , the Trojan War was waged against  the  city of Troy by the Achaeans ( Greeks ) after Paris of Troy took Helen from her husband Menelaus king of Sparta .
The war is one of  the  most important events  in  Greek mythology  और  has  महरूम  narrated through  अनेक   works   of   यूनानी  literature ,  सबसे   notably  through Homer  's  Iliad and  the  Odyssey .
The Iliad relates a part of  the  last year  of  the  घेरा  of  ट्रॉय  ; the Odyssey describes Odysseus 's  यात्रा  home  .
Other parts of the  युद्ध   हैं  contained  in   a  cycle of epic poems ,  जिससे  have survived through  fragments   .
Episodes  इससे  the  युद्ध  provided  सामग्री   लिये   यूनानी  tragedy and other  works   of   यूनानी   साहित्य  , and for Roman poets including  वर्जिल  and Ovid .
The war originated from a quarrel between the goddesses Athena ,  hera  , and Aphrodite , after Eris ,  the  goddess  of   संघर्ष  and  अनबन  ,  दिया  them a golden  ठहराना   ,  sometimes  ज्ञात   as  the  ठहराना   of  Discord  ,  marked `` for the fairest  ''   .
Zeus sent the goddesses  to  Paris , who judged  कि  Aphrodite , as the `` fairest  ''  , should  प्राप्त  the apple .
In exchange ,  aphrodite  made  हेलेन  ,  the   सबसे  beautiful  of   सब  women  और  wife  of  Menelaus , fall  in  love with Paris , who took her to Troy  .
Agamemnon  ,  king of Mycenae and the brother of Helen 's  husband   menelaus   ,   led   an  expedition  of  Achaean troops to  ट्रॉय  and besieged the city for  टेन   सालो  because of Paris ' insult .
After the  मौतों  of  अनेक  heroes , including the Achaeans Achilles and Ajax  ,  and the  ट्रोजन्स   हेक्टर   और  Paris , the city fell to the  ruse  of the Trojan Horse  .
The Achaeans slaughtered  the  Trojans ( except  लिये  some of the women  और  children whom they  रखा   or   बेची  as slaves ) and desecrated the temples , thus earning the gods ' wrath .
Few of  the  Achaeans  लौटे  safely  to   उनके  homes  और   अनेक   संस्थापित  colonies in distant  shores  .
The Romans later traced their origin  to  Aeneas , one  of  the Trojans , who was said to  have   led   the   surviving  Trojans to modern-day Italy .
the   प्राचीन   यूनानियों  thought  कि   the  Trojan War  थी   a  historical event that  था  taken place in  the  13th or 12th  सदी  BC  ,  and believed that Troy was  स्तिथ  in  modern-day  Turkey  निकट  the Dardanelles .
By modern times , both the war and the  नगर  were widely believed  to  be  non-historical  .
in  1868  ,  however , the German  पुरातत्ववेत्ताओं  Heinrich Schliemann met  फ़्रैंक   calvert  , who  कायल   schliemann   कि   ट्रॉय  was at  hissarlik  and Schliemann took over  calvert   's  excavations  on  property  belonging  to Calvert ;  इस  claim is now  स्वीकृत   by  most  विद्वानों   .
Whether there is any historical reality behind the Trojan War is an open question .
Many scholars believe that there is a historical core to the  टेल  , though this may simply  औसत  that the Homeric  कहानियां  are a  संलयन  of various tales of sieges  और  expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks during the  कांस्य  Age .
Those  जो  believe that the  कहानियां  of  the   trojan  War  हैं  derived  इससे  a specific historical conflict usually  तिथि  it to  the  12th or 11th centuries  bc   ,  often preferring  the   तिथियाँ  given by  इरैटोस्थनिज़  ,  1194–1184   bc   ,   जिससे   roughly  corresponds with archaeological  प्रमाण   of  a catastrophic burning of Troy  viia   .
anarchists  have employed certain symbols for  उनके  cause , including most prominently the circle-A and the black  ध्वज  , although  anarchists  have historically largely denied the importance  of  symbols to political movement  .
चूंकि  the  पुनरुद्धार  of anarchism around the start of  the  21st-century  संयुक्त  with  the  rise of the  anti-globalization   गति  ,  अराजकतावादी  cultural symbols  हैं  widely present  .
the  greater  palatine   कनाल  ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the  कपाल  that transmits the greater palatine artery  ,   रग  , and  तंत्रिका  between the pterygopalatine fossa and the oral cavity  .
Surface temperature of  अंटार्कटिक   in  winter and summer  इससे  the  यूरोपीय   केन्द्र   लिये  Medium-Range Weather Forecasts
the  climate  of   अंटार्कटिक   is  the coldest  on  the  पूरे  of  धरती  .
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring temperature  कभी  recorded on the ground on Earth :  −89.2   °c   (   −128.6  °F ) at  वोस्तोक  Station .
it   is   भी   अत्यधिक   शुष्क   (   technically  a  मरुस्थल  ) ,  averaging  166  mm   (   6.5  in  )  of precipitation per year  .
भी  so , on most parts of the continent the snow rarely melts  और  is  आखिरकार   संपीडित  to  become  the glacial  बर्फ  that makes up  the  ice sheet .
मौसम  fronts rarely penetrate far  into  the  महाद्वीप  .
Most of Antarctica has an ice cap  जलवायु  ( Köppen  ef  ) with  बहुत  cold  ,  generally extremely dry weather  throughout  the  साल  and  no   माह  averaging  ऊपर  0 °C (  32  °F ) .
कुछ   फ्रिंज  coastal areas have  a   टुण्ड्रा   जलवायु  ( Köppen ET )  साथ   a  short  गर्मियाँ  averaging above freezing , and  much   उच्चतर  precipitation .
Current  सिर  coach Mike Tomlin , during the 2007 season
the  Pittsburgh Steelers  मताधिकार  has had 16  सिर  coaches throughout its history .
संस्थापित   as   the  Pittsburgh Pirates in , the name  थी  changed  to  the Steelers prior to  the  season  to  celebrate the city  's  heritage of  producing   स्टील  .
जो   बच   परोसा  two separate terms as  सिर  coach and Walt Kiesling served three separate terms .
दौरान   the  and seasons , due to the  राशि   of  players who fought  in  World War II  ,  the Steelers combined their team  साथ   फिलाडेल्फिया  and Chicago  ,  respectively  .
दौरान   ये   सीज़न  , Steelers ' coach  वॉल्ट   kiesling  shared coaching duties with Greasy Neale and Phil Handler  ,   जो  have not been included  भीतर  this list .
Struggling for  much   of  the franchise 's early years , the team  's  first season with more wins than losses was coached by Jock  sutherland  in  .
In ,  अंतर्गत   sutherland  ,  the  Steelers played their first playoff game against the  फिलाडेल्फिया  Eagles  .
टेन   of   the   16   सिर   कोच   खर्च  their entire professional  कोचिंग   करियर   साथ   the  franchise  ,  including John McNally ,  वॉल्ट  Kiesling and Chuck Noll , who have also been voted  into  the Pro Football Hall of Fame  .
One of  तभी  four  मेन  to coach  the  same team for 23 years ,  चक  Noll  रिटायर्ड  in  .
Noll is  भी  the  तभी  coach in National Football League history to win four Super Bowls .
Bill  cowher  , Noll 's replacement  ,  coached  the  Steelers  to  their  पांचवां  Super Bowl victory  ,   in  2005  .
The Steelers  छठे  Super Bowl win came in  सुपर   कटोरी  XLIII  ,  while  सिर   coached  by Mike  tomlin   ,   the   टोली  's current  सिर  coach .
In criminal  विधि   ,  fraud is intentional  deception  made for personal gain or  to   क्षति  another individual ;  the  related adjective is  बेईमान  ,  और  verb is defraud .
धोखाधड़ी  is a  अपराधों  and  a   सिविल  law  उल्लंघन  ,  हालांकि   the  specific  दण्ड  law  परिभाषा   varies  by  विधिक  jurisdiction .
Defrauding people or  entities  of money or valuables  is  a common purpose of fraud  .
A hoax also involves  deception  , but without  the  intention  of  gain or of  damaging  or  depriving  the  शिकार   .
धोखाधड़ी  is  a   रक्षा  in  a   सिविल  action for  उल्लंघन  of contract or  विशिष्ट  performance of a contract .
धोखाधड़ी  is a basis  लिये  equitable jurisdiction .
Passover , or Pesach ( from : in Hebrew  ,  Yiddish ) , Tiberian : ,  आधुनिक  Hebrew : /ˈpesaχ/ Pesah  ,   pesakh   ,   यहूदी  : Peysekh , Paysakh , Paysokh ) is an important Biblically  -derived  Jewish festival .
Historically , together  साथ  Shavuot (  ``   पेंटेकोस्ट  '' ) and Sukkot  (   ``  Tabernacles '' )  ,  Passover  is  one of  the  three  यात्राएं   त्यौहार  ( Shalosh Regalim  )  during which the  संपूर्ण  population of the  किंगडम  of Judah made a  यात्राएं  to the Temple in Jerusalem  .
samaritans  still  मेक   इस  pilgrimage to Mount Gerizim ,  लकिन  only men participate in  पब्लिक  worship  .
passover   commences   on   the   15th   of  the Hebrew  माह  of Nisan and lasts for  either  seven days  (   in  Israel ) or eight days  (  in the diaspora ) .
In Judaism  ,   a   दिन  commences at dusk and  lasts  until the  following  dusk  ,  thus the first day of  passover  only begins  बाद  dusk  of  the 14th of Nisan  और  ends at  संध्या   of   the  15th  दिन  of the month of Nisan  .
the  rituals unique to the Passover celebrations commence with the  passover   seder  when the  15th  of  nisan  has  begun   .
In  the  Northern Hemisphere Passover  takes   प्लेस  in spring  as  the Torah prescribes it : `` in the  माह  of [  the  ] spring '' (  בחדש  האביב  )   .
It is one  of  the  सबसे  widely observed Jewish  छुट्टियाँ  .
The Jewish  लोगों   celebrate  Passover as a  commemoration  of their liberation  over   3,300  years ago by God from slavery in ancient Egypt  कि  was ruled by  the  Pharaohs  ,  and  उनके  birth  as   a  nation under the  नेतृत्व  of  मूसा  .
It commemorates the story of the Exodus as  वर्णित  in the  यहूदी  Bible especially in  the  Book of  exodus   ,  in  जिससे  the Israelites were  freed   इससे  slavery in Egypt .
In the narrative of the Exodus  ,   the   बाइबल  tells that God helped the  children  of Israel escape from  उनके   गुलामी   in  Egypt  by   inflicting   टेन  plagues upon the ancient Egyptians before the Pharaoh would release his  israelite   स्लेव  ; the tenth and worst  of   the  plagues was the death of the  मिश्र  first-born  .
The Israelites  यहूद  instructed to mark  the  doorposts of their  घरों  with the blood of  a   slaughtered  spring  मेमने  and ,  upon   देखकर  this  ,  the spirit  of   the   रब  knew to pass over the first-born  in   ये  homes , hence  the  name  of  the  अवकाश  .
There is some debate  over  where  the  term is actually  निकला   इससे  .
When the Pharaoh freed the Israelites  ,  it is  कहा   कि  they  बाएँ   in  such  a   hurry  that  वे   could  not wait for bread  आटा  to rise ( leaven )  .
In commemoration  ,  for  the  duration of Passover no  leavened  bread is eaten , for which reason  it   is  called `` The Festival of  the  Unleavened Bread '' .
Thus Matzo (  चपटा  unleavened  ब्रैड   )  is eaten during Passover and it is  a   प्रतीक   of  the  अवकाश  .
हैली   's  Comet or  धूमकेतु  Halley (  or  ) ,  officially  designated 1P/Halley , is the best-known  of  the short-period comets  और   is   दृश्य  from Earth every 75–76 years .
Halley is the only  short-period  comet  कि  is  clearly  visible  to   the  naked eye from  धरती  , and thus the only naked-eye comet that  might  appear  twice  in  a   इंसान  lifetime .
Other naked-eye comets may  be  brighter and more spectacular ,  लकिन   होगा  appear only once in thousands of years  .
Halley  's  returns to the inner Solar System have been observed  और   अंकित   by   खगोलशास्त्रियों  since at least 240 BCE .
Clear  रिकॉर्ड  of  the  comet 's  दिखावे   यहूद   बना   by  Chinese , Babylonian , and medieval  यूरोपीय  chroniclers ,  लकिन   यहूद  not recognized as reappearances of the same object at  the  time .
The comet 's periodicity was first  संकल्पित  in 1705  by  English  astronomer  Edmond Halley , after whom it  is  now named .
हैली   's   धूमकेतु  last appeared in the inner Solar  प्रणाली  in 1986 and will next appear in  mid-2061  .
During  इसके  1986  apparition  , Halley became  the  first  धूमकेतु  to be  observed  in detail by spacecraft ,  providing  the first  observational   आंकड़ा  on the  ढांचा   of  a  धूमकेतु  nucleus and  the   यांत्रिकी   of   कोमा  and tail formation .
ये  observations supported a number  of  longstanding hypotheses about comet construction , particularly Fred  whipple  's `` dirty snowball  ''  model , which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed  of  a mixture of volatile ices – such as water ,  कार्बन   डाइऑक्साइड   और  ammonia –  और   धूल  .
the  missions also provided data  जिससे  substantially reformed and  reconfigured  these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty , non-volatile materials , and that  तभी   a  small portion of it  is  icy .
anti-communism  is opposition to  साम्यवादी   .
व्यवस्थित   anti-communism  developed in  प्रतिक्रिया  to the  वृद्धि   of  communism , especially  बाद   the  1917 October  क्रान्ति  in Russia and reaching  वैश्विक   आयाम  during the Cold War .
Most anti-communists reject  the  concept  of  historical materialism ,  जिससे   is   a  central idea in Marxism  .
anti-communists   अस्वीकृत  the  मार्क्सवादी   विश्वास  that capitalism will be followed  by  socialism  और  communism  ,   बस  as  सामंतवाद  was followed by capitalism .
Anti-communists question  the   वैध   of   the   मार्क्सवादी   अर्जी   कि  the  समाजवादी  state will ``  wither   दूर   ''  when it becomes unnecessary in a  सच्चा   कम्युनिस्ट   समाज   .
Anti-communists  argue   कि   the  repression in  the   जल्दी   सालो  of  bolshevik   नियम  , while not  as  extreme as  कि   दौरान   जोसेफ   स्टालिन  's  नियम  ,  थी   स्टिल   कठोर  by reasonable standards , citing examples such as Felix Dzerzhinsky 's secret  पुलिस  ,  जिससे   eliminated  numerous  राजनैतिक   प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  by extrajudicial  executions  , and the brutal crushing  of  the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov rebellion .
Some  anti-communists  refer to both Communism and  फासीवाद   as  totalitarianism , seeing  समानता  between the actions of  कम्युनिस्ट   और  fascist governments  .
Historian  रॉबर्ट  Conquest  रै  argued that Communism  थी   जिम्मेदार  for tens of millions  of  deaths during the 20th century .
Opponents argue that Communist parties that have come to power have  tended  to  be  rigidly intolerant of  राजनैतिक  opposition .
These opponents claim that most  कम्युनिस्ट   देशों  have shown no  लक्षण   of  advancing from Marx 's socialist  स्टेज   of  economy  to   an   आदर्श   कम्युनिस्ट  stage .
बल्कि   ,  Communist governments have been accused of creating a new ruling class (  a  Nomenklatura  )   ,  with  शक्तियां  and  privileges   वृहद  than those previously enjoyed  by  the upper classes  in  the  non-  communist regimes  .
Gil Heron ( 9  अप्रैल   1922  –  27   नवम्बर  2008 )  थी  a Jamaican professional  footballer  .
He was the first black  खिलाड़ी  to play  लिये  Scottish club Celtic , and was the father of poet  और   संगीतकार   gil  Scott-Heron .
He  died  in Detroit of a heart  आक्रमण  on 27  नवम्बर   2008  .
the  soybean ( US ) or soya  सेम   (  UK ) ( Glycine  अधिकतम   )  is a species of legume native to East Asia , widely grown  लिये  its edible bean which has numerous uses .
The plant is classed  as  an oilseed  बल्कि   than  a pulse by  the  UN Food and Agricultural  संगठन   (  FAO  )  .
Fat-free ( defatted )  सोयाबीन  meal is a significant and cheap source  of  protein for  एनिमल   फ़ीड्स  and many prepackaged meals ; soy vegetable  आयल   is  another  उत्पाद  of processing the soybean  क्रॉप  .
For example  ,  soybean products  ऐसे  as textured  सब्ज़ी   प्रोटीन  ( TVP ) are ingredients in many meat  और  dairy analogues  .
soybeans  produce significantly more  प्रोटीन   प्रति  acre than most other uses of  जमीन   .
Traditional nonfermented food uses of soybeans include soy  मिल्क  , and from the latter  टोफू  and  टोफू  skin .
fermented   भोजन  include soy sauce  ,   fermented  bean paste  ,   natto  , and tempeh ,  among   अन्य   .
The oil  is  used in many industrial applications .
The main producers of  सोया   हैं  the United States  (  35  %  ) ,  ब्राज़ील  (  27  % ) ,  अर्जेंटीना  (  19  % ) , China  (  6 % ) and India ( 4  %   )  .
The beans contain significant amounts  of  phytic acid , alpha-linolenic acid  ,  and isoflavones .
हैरिसन  Ford ( born  जुलाई  13 , 1942 ) is an American  फिल्मी  actor and  निर्माता  .
He is  प्रसिद्ध  for  उसके   प्रदर्शन  as Han Solo in  the  original Star Wars trilogy and the title  अक्षर   of  the Indiana  जोन्स  film series .
घाट  is also known for  उसके  roles as  रिक  Deckard in Blade Runner , John Book in Witness and  जोकर  Ryan  in  Patriot Games and  साफ  and Present  खतरे   .
उसके   करियर  has spanned six  दशकों  and includes  भूमिकाएँ   in  several Hollywood blockbusters  ,  including Presumed Innocent , The Fugitive  ,  Air  फ़ोर्स  One , and  कया  Lies  beneath   .
at  one  पाइंट   ,  four of the top six box-office hits of all time included  एक  of his roles  .
Five  of  his  films  have been  inducted  into the  नेशनल  Film Registry  .
In 1997  ,   घाट  was ranked No . 1  in  Empire `` The  शीर्ष   100  Movie  सितारों  of All Time  ''   सूची  .
, the United States  घरेलू   बक्सा  office  grosses   of  Ford 's films total over  us  $ 3.5  अरब  ,  साथ  worldwide grosses surpassing $ 6 billion  ,  making Ford the third highest grossing U.S. domestic  box-office   स्टार   .
Ford is the husband of  अभिनेत्री  Calista Flockhart .
A tube of  chapstick
chapstick  is  a  brand name for lip  बाम  manufactured by Pfizer  उपभोक्ता   healthcare  and used  in   अनेक   देशों  worldwide .
It is  intended  to  सहायता   दावत  and  prevent  chapped lips ;  hence  the name  .
Many varieties also include sunscreen in order to prevent sunburn .
Due  to  its popularity , the  पद  has become  a  genericized trademark .
It  popularly   refers   to   कोई   लिप  balm contained in a lipstick-style tube and applied in  the  same manner  as  lipstick  .
However  ,   the   पद  is  स्टिल  a registered trademark , with rights exclusively  स्वामित्व  by Pfizer  .
In Sweden and  in  the United Kingdom , the product  's   प्रमुख  competitor is Lypsyl ,  बना   by   novartis  Consumer  स्वास्थ्य   ,   जिससे   is  distributed in  समान   पैकेजिंग  to  chapstick  .
George Berkeley ( ;  12  March 168514 January 1753  )  , also known  as  Bishop Berkeley  (  Bishop of Cloyne ) , was an Anglo-Irish philosopher whose primary  उपलब्धि   थी   the  advancement of a theory he  पुकारा  `` immaterialism ''  (  later  referred   to   as  `` subjective idealism `` by others ) .
इस  theory denies the existence  of  material  पदार्थ  and  बजाय   contends   कि   परिचित  objects  जैसे   टेबल  and chairs  हैं   तभी   विचार  in the  minds   of  perceivers  ,  and  as  a result can not exist  बगैर  being perceived .
Thus , as Berkeley famously put it , for physical objects  ``  esse est percipi '' (  ``  to be is to  be   आभास  `` ) .
Berkeley is also known  लिये  his  critique   of  abstraction  ,  an important  आधार   in  his  तर्क  for immaterialism  .
In 1709 , Berkeley published his first  प्रमुख  work , , in which he discussed the limitations  of  human vision  और  advanced the  सिद्धान्त  that  the  proper  वस्तुएँ  of sight are  नहीं   सामग्री   वस्तुएँ  , but light and  रंग  .
This  foreshadowed   उसके   मुख्य   philosophical   कार्य  A Treatise Concerning  the   सिद्धान्त  of  इंसान  Knowledge in 1710 which , after its poor reception ,  he  rewrote in  संवाद  form and published under  the   शीर्षक  Three Dialogues between  hylas   और   philonous  in 1713  .
in   इस   किताब   ,  Berkeley 's views were represented  by  Philonous ( Greek : 'lover  of  mind  '   )  ,  जबकि   hylas  (  यूनानी   :  'matter ' ) embodies the Irish thinker’s opponents  ,  in  particular   जॉन  Locke .
Berkeley  argued   विरूद्ध   सर  Isaac Newton 's  doctrine  of  निरपेक्ष  space , time and motion  in  De  मोटू  ( on  गति  ) , published 1721 .
उसके  arguments were a precursor to  the  views of  mach  and Einstein .
In  1732  , he published Alciphron , a Christian apologetic against the free-thinkers  ,  and  in  1734 ,  he   प्रकाशित  The Analyst ,  an   empiricist  critique of  the   मूलाधार   of   infinitesimal   कलन   ,   जिससे  was influential in the development of mathematics .
His last major philosophical work  ,  Siris ( 1744 ) , begins  by   वकालत  the medicinal use  of   तारकोल  water  ,   और  then continues to discuss a wide range  of   विषय  including science  ,   दर्शनशास्त्र   ,  and theology .
Interest in Berkeley  's   कार्य   increased  after World  युद्ध   ii  ,  क्युकी  he  tackled  many of the issues  of  paramount interest to philosophy in the 20th century  ऐसे  as the problems of perception , the difference  between   प्राथमिक  and  द्वितीयक  qualities , and the importance of language .
Qingdao ( )  ,  historically known as  tsingtao  ,  is  a major city  in  eastern Shandong  प्रांत  , Eastern China  ,  with a population  of   over   8.715   लाख   (  2010 census ) .
इसके   निर्मित  up area  ,  made of 6 urban districts  और   4  county-level  शहरों  ,  is  home  to   परिचय  4,896,000 inhabitants  in  2010 .
it   सीमायें   yantai  to  the  northeast ,  weifang   to   the   वेस्ट   और  Rizhao to  the   दक्षिणपश्चिम   .
Qīng ( ) in Chinese  अर्थात्  `` green  ''  or  ``  lush ''  ,  while dǎo ( ) means ``  द्वीप  '' .
Qingdao is administered at the sub-provincial  स्तर  .
Lying  आरपार  the Shandong  प्रायद्वीप  while looking  आउट  to the Yellow  समुद्र  , Qingdao  is   a  major seaport  ,  naval base  ,   और  industrial centre .
it  is also the site of the Tsingtao Brewery .
The world  's   longest   समुद्र  bridge , the Qingdao Haiwan Bridge  ,  links the  प्रमुख  urban area of  चिंगदाओ  with  huangdao  district , straddling the Jiaozhou Bay sea areas .
Qingdao is named China 's most livable city .
Mimivirus is a viral  genus  containing a single  पहचाना   प्रजाति   नामित  Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( APMV ) ,  or  is a group of phylogenetically related  विशाल  viruses ( designated  प्रायः  MimiN ) .
In colloquial  वाक  ,  apmv  is  अधिक   commonly   referred  to  as   बस   ``   mimivirus  '' .
Until  अक्तूबर  2011 , when  a  larger virus Megavirus  chilensis  was  वर्णित   ,  it had the largest capsid diameter of all known viruses  .
Mimivirus has a  विशाल  and complex genome compared with most other viruses  .
Mimivirus  ,  short for `` mimicking microbe '' , is so called to reflect  इसके  large  आकार  and apparent Gram-staining properties .
the   मैक्सिकन  War of Independence  (   1810–1821  ) was an  हथियारबंद  conflict between the people  of   मैक्सिको   और  the Spanish colonial authorities which started on September 16  ,  1810 .
the  movement , which  became   ज्ञात  as the Mexican  युद्ध  of Independence ,  थी   led  by  mexican-born  Spaniards , Mestizos  और   amerindians   जो  sought independence from Spain  .
It  प्रारंभ   as   an  idealistic  peasants  ' rebellion  विरूद्ध  their colonial masters , but ended  as   an  unlikely alliance between Mexican ex-royalists and  मैक्सिकन  guerrilla  insurgents   .
Crohn 's disease , also known  as  Crohn syndrome and regional enteritis ,  is   a  type of inflammatory bowel disease  कि  may  affect  any  भाग  of the gastrointestinal  ट्रैक्ट   इससे  mouth to anus  ,  causing a wide  किस्में   of  symptoms .
It primarily causes abdominal  पीड़ा  , diarrhea ( which may be  खूनी  if inflammation  is  at its worst  )  , vomiting ( can be continuous  )  , or  वज़न  loss ,  लकिन  may  भी  cause complications  बाहर  the gastrointestinal tract such as  स्किन  rashes  ,   गठिया  , inflammation of the eye , tiredness , and  कमी  of concentration .
crohn  's disease is caused  by  interactions between  पर्यावरणीय  , immunological and bacterial  कारकों  in genetically susceptible  individuals  .
इस   परिणाम   in   a   दीर्घकालिक  inflammatory disorder , in which  the  body 's immune system  हमले  the  जठरांत्र   ट्रैक्ट  possibly  निर्देशित  at microbial  antigens  .
Crohn  's   बीमारी  has wrongly  महरूम  described as an autoimmune disease in the  पास्ट  ; recent  जांचकर्ताओं   have  described  it  as  an  immune deficiency state  .
वहीँ  is  a   जेनेटिक  association  साथ  Crohn  's  disease ,  primarily  with variations of the NOD2 gene and its protein ,  जिससे   होश   बैक्टीरियल  cell  दीवारें  .
सहोदर  of affected  individuals  are at  उच्चतर   रिस्क  .
Males and females  हैं  equally affected .
Smokers are  दो  times more likely to  develop   crohn   's  disease than nonsmokers .
Crohn 's disease affects  between  400,000 and 600,000 people in  उत्तर  America  .
Prevalence  estimates   लिये  Northern Europe have ranged from 27–48  प्रति  100,000 .
crohn  's disease tends to present  initially  in the teens and  twenties  ,  साथ  another  शिखर  incidence  in  the  fifties  to  seventies  , although the  बीमारी  can  occur  at any  आयु  .
वहीँ   is  no known  फार्मास्युटिकल  or  सर्जिकल  cure for Crohn 's  बीमारी   .
उपचार  options  हैं  restricted to  controlling  symptoms ,  maintaining  remission  ,  and  preventing  relapse .
The disease was  नामित  after gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn , who , in  1932   ,   साथ  with two  अन्य  colleagues at  माउंट   sinai   हॉस्पिटल   in  New  यॉर्क  ,  वर्णित  a  श्रेणी  of patients with inflammation of the terminal  ileum  , the area  सबसे   commonly  affected by the illness .
इस   is  an incomplete list of the tallest buildings  और  structures  by  country .
The  सूची  directly includes the  tallest  buildings and structures for  प्रत्येक   देश  , and where appropriate ,  it   भी  points to more detailed country-specific  सूचियाँ   .
Rough and Ready  is  a census-designated  प्लेस  in Nevada  काउंटी   ,  California  ,  United States .
It is located west of Grass Valley ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , approximately 62 miles (  100  km ) from Sacramento .
the  population was 963 at the 2010 census .
YouTube  is   a  video-sharing website ,  निर्मित   by  three former  paypal  employees  in  February 2005 , on which users can upload , view and share videos .
The company  is  based in San Bruno ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , and uses  adobe  Flash Video and HTML5 technology  to   प्रदर्शक   a  wide variety of  user-generated  video content , including movie clips ,  tv  clips , and music  वीडियो  ,  as   खूब  as  amateur  content such as video blogging ,  छोटी   असली  videos , and educational  वीडियो   .
Most  of  the  सामग्री  on  youtube  has  महरूम  uploaded  by  individuals ,  हालांकि  media corporations including  सीबीएस   ,  the BBC  ,  Vevo , Hulu  ,  and other organizations offer some of their  सामग्री  via  the  site , as  भाग  of the YouTube partnership program .
Unregistered users can watch videos  ,  while registered users can upload  an   असीमित   क्रमांक  of  वीडियो  .
Videos considered  to   contain   potentially   अप्रिय  content  हैं  available only to  पंजीकृत  users at  तनिक  18  सालो  old  .
In November 2006  ,   youtube  ,  llc   थी   खरीदा  by Google for US $ 1.65 billion , and operates as a  subsidiary   of   google   .
सिस्टर  Act is a musical written by Cheri Steinkellner and Bill Steinkellner with additional book  सामग्री  by Douglas Carter Beane  ,  with lyrics  by   ग्लेन   स्लेटर   और  music  by  Alan Menken .
it   is  based on the hit 1992 film comedy of the same name .
The  2009  West End production  थी  produced by Stage  entertainment   ,  Whoopi Goldberg , and Michael Reno  लिये   सिस  Acts LLC .
Goldberg  is  also a producer of the 2011  ब्रॉडवे   अनुकूलन   .
Microsoft DirectX is a collection of application programming interfaces  (   api   )   लिये  handling tasks related to multimedia ,  विशेषकर  game programming and video , on  microsoft  platforms .
Originally ,  the   names  of  ये  APIs all  began  with Direct  ,  such  as  Direct3D  ,  DirectDraw , DirectMusic , DirectPlay , DirectSound  ,  and  so  forth .
The  नाम  DirectX  थी   coined  as shorthand  पद   लिये   सब  of these  api   (  the X  खड़ा  in for  the  particular API  names  ) and  जल्द  became the  नाम  of the collection .
When Microsoft  बाद  set  आउट  to develop a gaming  कंसोल  , the  x  was used as  the  basis of the  नाम  Xbox  to  indicate that the console  थी  based  on  DirectX  प्रौद्योगिकी  .
The  x   आरंभिक  has been carried forward in  the  naming of APIs  designed   लिये   the  Xbox  ऐसे  as XInput and the  cross-platform  Audio Creation Tool  (  XACT ) , while the DirectX pattern has been  जारी  for Windows APIs  ऐसे   as   direct2d  and DirectWrite .
Direct3D  (   the  3D graphics API within DirectX ) is widely used in the development of video games for Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ   ,  Microsoft Xbox  ,  Microsoft Xbox 360  और  some  sega   dreamcast  games .
Direct3D is also used by other software applications  लिये  visualization and graphics  कार्य   ऐसे   as  CAD/CAM  अभियान्त्रिकी  .
as   direct3d   is  the most widely  publicized   घटक   of  DirectX , it is  आम  to see the  names  `` DirectX '' and ``  direct3d  '' used interchangeably .
The DirectX software  विकास   kit  (  sdk  )  consists  of  runtime  libraries  in   redistributable   शब्दकोष  form  ,   साथ  with  accompanying  documentation and headers  लिये   उपयोग  in coding  .
Originally , the runtimes were  तभी  installed by games or explicitly  by   the  user .
Windows 95  किया  not launch with DirectX ,  लकिन   डाइरेक्टएक्स   थी  included  साथ  Windows 95 OEM  सेवा  Release 2 .
Windows 98 and  खिड़कियाँ  NT 4.0  दोनो  shipped with DirectX , as has every version of Windows released since .
The SDK is  उपलब्धियाँ  as  a  free download  .
जबकि  the runtimes are proprietary  ,  closed-source software , source  कोड  is provided for  सबसे  of the SDK samples .
starting  with the release  of  Windows  8  Developer  पूर्वावलोकन  ,  डाइरेक्टएक्स  SDK has  महरूम  integrated into Windows  sdk   .
Direct3D 9Ex  ,  Direct3D  10  ,  और  Direct3D 11 are only available  लिये  Windows Vista  और   नए  because  प्रत्येक   of  these new versions was built to  निर्भर  upon  the  new Windows  प्रदर्शक   ड्राइवर   मॉडल  that was introduced  लिये  Windows Vista  .
The new  vista/wddm  graphics  वास्तुकला  includes a  नई  video memory manager  supporting   आभासीकरण  of graphics  हार्डवेयर   लिये  various  अनुप्रयोग  and  सेवाएं  like the Desktop Window  मैनेजर   .
quetzaltenango   ,  also commonly  ज्ञात   by   इसके  indigenous name , Xelajú , or more  commonly   ,  Xela ,  is  the second largest  नगर  of  ग्वाटेमाला  .
it  is both the capital  of   quetzaltenango  Department and the municipal seat of  quetzaltenango   नगरपालिका   .
It  रै  an estimated  जनसांख्यिकी  of 224,703  .
the  population  is  about  61   %  indigenous or Amerindian ,  34  % Mestizo or ladino and  5  % European  .
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley  at  an elevation of 2,330 meters (  7,655   ft  ) above  समुद्र  level  at  its  न्यूनतम  part .
It may  पहुँचें  above 2,400 meters  भीतर   the  city  .
the   नगरपालिका  of Quetzaltenango consists of  an  area of .
Municipalities abutting the  नगरपालिका  of Quetzaltenango  शामिल  : Salcajá  ,  Cantel , Almolonga ,  zunil  ,  el  Palmar  ,  Concepción Chiquirichapa  ,  San Mateo  ,   la  Esperanza  ,   olintepeque  , and San  आन्द्रेस  Xecul .
सब  these municipalities  हैं  part of the Department of  quetzaltenango   ,  except San Andrés  xecul  which is  a  part of  the  Department  of  Totonicapán .
The Epic of  gilgamesh  , an epic  कविता  from Mesopotamia  ,   is   amongst  the earliest surviving works of literature  .
The  साहित्यिक   इतिहास   of  Gilgamesh begins  साथ   पाँच   स्वतंत्र  Sumerian poems  परिचय   'bilgamesh  '  (  Sumerian for Gilgamesh  )   ,  king of Uruk  .
Four of these were used  as   सोर्स  material for a combined  एपिक   in   अक्कादी  .
This first combined epic , known as the ``  बूढ़ा  Babylonian '' version  ,  dates to the 18th century BC and is titled after its  incipit  , Shūtur  एली  sharrī (  ``   surpassing  All Other Kings '' )  .
Only a few fragments of it  have  survived .
The later `` Standard  babylonian   ''   संस्करण   तिथियाँ  from  the  13th  to  the 10th centuries  bc  and bears the incipit  शा   naqba   īmuru  ( `` He who Saw  the   गहन   ''   )  .
Fragments of approximately  दो  thirds of  इस  longer , twelve-tablet version  have   महरूम  recovered .
Some  of   the   बेहतरीन   नक़ल  were  खोजा   in   the   पुस्तकालयों   तबाह  of  the  7th-century BC  assyrian  king Ashurbanipal .
the  story  centers  on  a  friendship between Gilgamesh and  enkidu   .
enkidu  is  a  wild man created  by  the gods as  gilgamesh  's equal to  distract   उसे  from oppressing the people of Uruk .
Together ,  वे   यात्रा   to   the  Cedar Mountain to  शिकस्त   humbaba   ,  its monstrous  संरक्षक  .
बाद  they kill the  सांड  of Heaven ,  जिससे  the  देवी  Ishtar  भेजना  to punish  gilgamesh   लिये  spurning  उसके  advances .
as  a punishment for  ये  actions , the gods  वाक्य  Enkidu  to  death  .
the  second half of the epic  focuses   on  Gilgamesh 's  तकलीफ   at   enkidu  's death , and  उसके  quest for immortality .
In  अनुक्रम  to learn the secret of eternal life , Gilgamesh undertakes  a  long and  perilous   यात्रा  .
he  learns that ``  the  life  कि  you are seeking you will never find  .
जब   the  gods created  man  they allotted  to   उसे   मौत   ,  but life they retained in their own keeping . ''
This quote was originally attributed to  siduri  in  the  Old  babylonian   संस्करण  of the epic , and then attributed to the immortal flood  नायिका   utnapishtim   in  the  अक्कादी   संस्करण   of  the epic  .
Nevertheless  ,   gilgamesh   's   कीर्ति  lived on after his  मौत  , because of his great  भवन  projects , and his account of what Utnapishtim told  उसे  happened during the  बाढ़   .
the   स्टोरी  has been translated  into  many  अलग  languages  ,   और   gilgamesh  has since  become   adapted   in  works  of  popular  fiction  .
There are numerous debates over  जो  created  the  first video game ,  साथ  the answer depending  largely  on how video  खेल  are  पारिभाषित   .
The  एवोल्यूशन  of  वीडियो  games  represents  a tangled web of  अनेक  different industries ,  सहित  scientific ,  कंप्यूटर  , arcade , and consumer electronics  .
The `` video  ''  in  ``   वीडियो  game `` traditionally refers to a  रास्टर  display  यंत्र  .
With the popular catch phrase use of the term `` video game ''  ,  the term now  implies  all display  प्रकार  ,  स्वरुप  , and platforms  .
इतिहासकारों  have also sought to  बायपास   the  issue  by  instead using the more specific `` digital games '' descriptive .
This term leaves out the earlier analog-based computer  खेल  .
This  is   a  list of best-selling video  खेल  franchises that  have  sold  or   shipped  at least 5  लाख  copies .
Unless  वरना  stated  ,  numbers  indicate  worldwide units  बेची   ,  ordered alphabetically whenever two or more list the  वही  amount .
The exception are the  ones  specifying shipments , which have lower  पूर्वता   than  others listing  बिक्री  .
Franchise sales  शामिल  expansion packs  भी  though they  हैं  not considered full video games .
For best-selling individual video  खेल   ,  see List of best-selling video games  .
the  sales figures given  नीचे  do  नहीं   शामिल   आर्केड   खेल  sales  ,  which  can  be  मिला  at List  of  highest-grossing arcade video games  .
– This  रंग   indicates  a sub-series of a larger video  खेल  franchise .
This  करता  not necessarily apply for  श्रेणी  that are not video game-based .
Dorothy Ann Willis Richards (  सितंबर   1  , 1933  –  September  13  , 2006 ) was  an   अमरीकी  politician and the 45th  राज्यपाल  of Texas .
वो  first came to national attention as the state  कोषाध्यक्ष   of   टेक्सास   ,  when she delivered  the  keynote  पता   at  the 1988 Democratic National Convention .
Richards served as the  45th  Governor of  टेक्सास  from 1991  to   1995  and was defeated for  re-election  in  1994   by   जार्ज   W.  Bush  .
ऐन  Richards was the second female governor  of  Texas  .
आंकड़ा  Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a  सुरक्षा  feature included in modern operating  प्रणालियों   .
It  is  known to be available in  लिनक्स  , Mac  os  X  ,  iOS  ,  Microsoft Windows and  एंड्रॉइड  operating systems and is intended to prevent an application  or  service from executing  कोड  from a non-executable memory region  .
This  helps  prevent certain exploits that  स्टोर  code via  a  buffer overflow  ,   लिये  example .
DEP  रनों   in  two modes : hardware-enforced DEP for CPUs  कि   can  mark  मेमोरी  pages as nonexecutable  ,  and software-enforced  dep   साथ   सीमित  protection for CPUs  कि  do not have hardware support .
Software-enforced DEP does not  protect   विरूद्ध  execution  of  code  in  data pages , but instead  counters   seh   मिटाकर   ,  another type of  आक्रमण  .
dep  was introduced on  लिनक्स  in 2004 (  कर्नेल   2.6.8  ) , on  खिड़कियाँ  in  2004  with Windows  xp   सेवा   पैक  2 ,  जबकि  Apple  introduced  DEP when they  स्थानांतरित   to  x86 in 2006 .
उदाहरण  illustration of  दो  common futanari  विसंगतियाँ
, is the Japanese word  लिये  hermaphroditism , which is  भी  used in a broader sense  लिये  androgyny .
परे  Japan the term is used  to  describe  a  commonly pornographic genre of computer games , comics  और  animations , which includes characters that show both primary sexual characteristics .
But  in  today  's  language  it   refers  almost exclusively for characters who  have  an overall feminine appearance  .
In  कि  case the term is also often  abbreviated  as futa ( s  )   ,  which  is   occasionally  also used as term  लिये  the  works  itself .
जल्दी  CAPTCHAs such as these , generated by the EZ-Gimpy program , were used  on   याहू  !
A  आधुनिक   captcha  , rather  than  attempting to create a  distorted   पृष्ठभूमि  and  ऊँची   स्तर   of  warping on the text  ,  might  फ़ोकस  on making segmentation  मुश्किल  by adding an angled line .
Another way  to  make segmentation difficult is  to   भीड  symbols together , as in Yahoo  !   's  current CAPTCHA format .
Some CAPTCHAs try to utilize the ability of people  to  see three-dimensional  वस्तुएँ  .
on   इस  image  ,  symbols are drawn with lines of different  मोटाई  to make  an   प्रभाव  of  extrusion  .
a  CAPTCHA ( ) is a  प्रकार  of  challenge-response  test used in computing as an attempt to ensure that the response  is  generated by a human being .
The  प्रक्रम  usually involves  a  computer  पूछे  a  उपयोक्ता  to complete a simple  परीक्षण  which the computer  is  able to grade .
ये  tests are  designed   to  be easy for a computer  to   generate  but difficult for a  कंप्यूटर  to solve , but again easy for  a   इंसान   .
If a  सही  solution is received , it can be  presumed  to have  महरूम  entered by a  इंसान  .
A  आम  type of CAPTCHA requires  the  user to  प्रकार  letters  and/or  digits from a distorted image that appears on the screen .
Such tests are commonly used  to  prevent unwanted internet bots  इससे  accessing websites  ,  since a  सामान्य  human can easily read a CAPTCHA , while the  bot   can  not process the  चित्र  letters  और   इसलिए   ,   can  not  जवाब  properly ,  or  at  सब  .
हालांकि  most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated  ,   अनेक  of them have  become  difficult even for a human to read  ,   so  picture CAPTCHAs were  निर्मित  in which  a   इंसान  is shown a simple  परीक्षण   to  show a picture of a certain animal ( given few  एनिमल  pictures )  ,  which is simple for a human being  to  process ,  और   इसलिए  easy  to   चुनें   ,   जबकि   a  bot can not process and  solve  the  सवाल   क्युकी  although it  can  analyze  the   चित्र   ,  it  can  not  easily   अंदाज़ा  the  एनिमल   .
The term ``  captcha  '' was coined in 2000 by Luis von Ahn , Manuel Blum , Nicholas  J.   हॉपर  , and John Langford  (   सब  of Carnegie Mellon University  )   .
It is  an   एक्रोनिम  based on the word `` capture '' and standing for  ``  Completely  स्वचालित  Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans  अलावा   ''   .
कार्नेगी   mellon   विश्वविद्यालयों  attempted  to  trademark  the   पद   on  15 October 2004 , but the  ट्रेडमार्क  application  थी  abandoned on 21 April  2008  .
a  CAPTCHA is sometimes described as  a   रिवर्स   turing  test  ,  because it is  administered  by  a  machine and targeted at a human ,  in  contrast  to   the  standard  turing   परीक्षण   कि  is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine .
Jacques-Yves  cousteau  ( ; commonly  ज्ञात   in  English as  ज़ाक   cousteau  ;  11  June  1910   –  25  जून  1997 ) was a French  नवल  officer , explorer , conservationist  ,  filmmaker  ,  innovator ,  वैज्ञानिक  , photographer , author and researcher who  पढ़ाई   the  sea  और   सब  forms  of  life  in  water .
he   co-developed  the Aqua-Lung  ,  pioneered marine  संरक्षण   और   थी  a member of the  académie  française  .
केएफसी  ( Kentucky Fried Chicken  )  is a fast food restaurant chain headquartered in Louisville , Kentucky  ,  United States  ,  which  specializes  in fried chicken .
An `` American  प्रतीक  '' , it is the  संसार   's   दूसरी  largest restaurant chain  overall  ( as measured by  बिक्री  ) after McDonald  's  , with  over  18,000  आउटलेट  in 120 countries  और  territories .
The company is a subsidiary of Yum !
Brands ,  a  restaurant  कम्पनी   जिससे  also owns Pizza Hut and  टैको  Bell .
केएफसी  was  संस्थापित  by Harland Sanders ,  जो   began   selling  fried chicken from his roadside restaurant in Corbin , Kentucky during the Great Depression .
Sanders was one of  the  first  लोगों  to see  the  potential  of   the  restaurant franchising concept ,  साथ  the first ``  केंटकी  Fried Chicken  ''   मताधिकार  opening in Utah  in  1952  .
The franchise popularized chicken in the  तेज़  food industry  ,  thereby  diversifying  the  मार्केट   और  challenging the dominance of  the  hamburger .
विपणन   खुद  as ``  कर्नल  Sanders  ''   ,  he became  a  legendary  फिगर   of  American  सांस्कृतिक   इतिहास  ,  और   उसके  image is still prominently used in  केएफसी  branding .
The company 's  रैपिड  expansion saw it grow too large for Sanders to manage , and in 1964  he  sold the  कम्पनी  to  a   समूह  of investors led by John Y  .  Brown ,  jr.  and Jack Massey .
केएफसी  was one of the first fast food chains  to   विस्तार  internationally , opening outlets  in  England  ,   मैक्सिको  and Puerto  रीको   by  the mid-1960s .
Throughout  the  1970s and 1980s , KFC experienced mixed  सौभाग्य  domestically ,  as  it went through  a  series of corporate owners  जो   था   छोटी  or  no   अनुभव  in the restaurant business .
In  the  early 1970s ,  केएफसी  was sold to the spirits firm  heublein   ,  who  यहूद  taken over by the  r.J.   रेनॉल्ड्स  food and tobacco conglomerate , who sold the chain to PepsiCo  .
The chain continued  to  expand overseas however , and  in  1987 KFC  became   the  first Western  रेस्तरां   कड़ी  to open in  चीन   .
The chain has  चूंकि  expanded rapidly  in  China , and the country  is  now the company 's most profitable  मार्केट   .
PepsiCo spun off  इसके   रेस्तरां  division as Tricon Global  रेस्तरां  ,  जिससे  later changed its  नाम   to   यम  !
Brands  .
KFC primarily sells fried chicken pieces and variations  ऐसे  as chicken sandwiches and wraps ,  सलाद  and side dishes  ऐसे  as French fries  और  coleslaw , desserts and soft  पेय  ,  प्रायः  supplied by PepsiCo  .
Its most famous product is pressure  fried  chicken pieces  ,  seasoned  साथ  Sanders '  ``  Original  रेसिपी   ''  of  11  herbs and spices  .
the  exact nature of these ingredients is  अनजान  , and represents a notable  व्यापार   रहस्य  .
larger  portions of  fried  chicken  हैं  served in a  distinctive   गत्ता  `` bucket '' ,  जिससे  has become  a   हस्ताक्षर   of  the  कड़ी  since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman .
केएफसी  is famous for the slogan `` finger lickin  '  good  ''  , which  रै  since  महरूम  replaced  by  ``  nobody  does chicken like KFC '' and `` So good '' .
निडारिया  (  साथ  a  मूक  c ) or Coelenterata is a phylum containing  over  10,000  प्रजाति   of  animals found exclusively in  जलीय   और   ज़्यादातर  marine  environments   .
Their distinguishing  विशेषता  is cnidocytes  ,  specialized cells that they use mainly for capturing prey .
Their bodies consist of mesoglea , a non-living jelly-like substance  ,  sandwiched between two layers  of   epithelium  that are mostly one  कोशिका   मोटा   .
They have two basic body forms : swimming medusae  और  sessile polyps , both of which  हैं  radially symmetrical  साथ   mouths   घिरी  by tentacles that  भालू  cnidocytes .
Both forms have  a  single orifice and body  गुहा   कि   हैं  used for digestion and  श्वसन  .
अनेक  cnidarian  प्रजाति  produce colonies that  हैं  single organisms  रचित  of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids , or both .
Cnidarians '  क्रियाएँ  are coordinated by a decentralized nerve  जाल  and simple  receptors   .
Several free-swimming Cubozoa and  scyphozoa  possess balance-sensing  statocysts  ,  और  some  have  simple  आँखें  .
नहीं  all  cnidarians  reproduce  sexually  .
अनेक  have  जटिल  lifecycles  साथ  asexual  polyp   चरण  and  यौन   medusae   ,   लकिन   कुछ   omit  either  the  polyp  or  the  medusa   स्टेज  .
cnidarians  were for a long time  grouped  with  ctenophores  in the phylum Coelenterata , but  increasing   जागरूकता   of  their differences caused them to be placed  in  separate  phyla  .
Cnidarians  हैं  classified  into   चार  main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea  anemones  ,  corals  , sea pens )  ;   तैराकी  Scyphozoa ( jellyfish )  ;  Cubozoa ( box jellies  )  ;  और  Hydrozoa ,  a  diverse group that includes all the  freshwater  cnidarians as well as many marine forms , and  रै   दोनो  sessile members  ऐसे  as Hydra and colonial  swimmers   ऐसे  as  the  Portuguese Man o  '  War .
Staurozoa have  recently  been  recognised  as  a  class  in   उनके  own right rather than  a  sub-group of Scyphozoa  ,  and there is debate about whether Myxozoa and  polypodiozoa   हैं   cnidarians  or closer  to  bilaterians (  अधिक  complex animals  )  .
Most cnidarians prey on organisms ranging in size from  प्लवक   to  animals several times  larger  than themselves , but  अनेक   obtain   much   of  their nutrition  इससे  endosymbiotic  शैवाल   ,  and a few are parasites .
Many are preyed upon by other animals  सहित  starfish ,  समुद्र  slugs ,  मछली  and turtles  .
मूँगा  reefs  ,  whose  polyps  are  समृद्ध  in  endosymbiotic  algae ,  support   कुछ  of the world 's most productive ecosystems , and protect  वनस्पति  in tidal  zones   और   on  shorelines  इससे  strong  currents  and  tides   .
While corals  हैं  almost entirely  प्रतिबंधित  to warm , shallow marine waters ,  अन्य  cnidarians  सजीव  in the depths  ,  in polar seas  और  in freshwater .
Fossil cnidarians have  महरूम  found in rocks formed about , and other  जीवाश्मों   दिखाएँ  that  corals   may   have  been  उपस्थित  shortly before and diversified  a  few million years  बाद  .
Fossils of cnidarians  कि   do   नहीं   निर्माण  mineralized structures are very rare .
Scientists  फिलहाल  think that cnidarians , ctenophores  और  bilaterians are more closely  सम्बन्धित   to   calcareous   sponges  than these are to  अन्य  sponges , and  कि  anthozoans are  the  evolutionary `` aunts ''  or  ``  बहनों  '' of other cnidarians , and the most  closely  related to bilaterians .
Recent analyses  have  concluded  कि  cnidarians  ,   हालांकि   माना  more  ``  primitive ''  than  bilaterians , have a wider range  of  genes .
The Aztec Pyramid at St. Cecilia Acatitlan , Mexico State .
Aztec jade mask depicting the god Xipe  totec  .
Large  सिरेमिक  statue of an Aztec Eagle Warrior
एज़टेक  cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic Codex Fejérváry-Mayer - the fire  परमेश्वर  Xiuhtecuhtli is  in   the  center  .
the  Aztec people were certain ethnic  समूह  of central  मैक्सिको  , particularly those groups who  spoke   the  Nahuatl language and who dominated large parts of Mesoamerica  इससे   the   14th  to  16th  centuries .
The Nahuatl words  aztecatl   (  singular ) and aztecah  (  plural  )   औसत   ``   लोगों   इससे  Aztlan  ``   ,  a mythological place for the  nahuatl-speaking   संस्कृति  of  the  time  ,   और  later  अपनाया  as the  शब्द  to define the Mexica people .
Often the term `` Aztec ''  refers  exclusively  to   the  Mexica  लोगों  of Tenochtitlan ( now the  स्थान  of Mexico  नगर  ) , situated on an  द्वीप  in Lake Texcoco  ,   जो  referred to themselves  as   mexica  Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica .
Sometimes the term  भी  includes the inhabitants  of  Tenochtitlan 's  दो  principal  अलाइड  city-states  ,  the Acolhuas of  texcoco   और  the Tepanecs of  tlacopan  , who  साथ   साथ  the Mexica formed the Aztec Triple  गठबंधन  which  नियंत्रित  what is often  ज्ञात  as  ``  the Aztec Empire ''  .
in  other contexts , Aztec  may   refer   to  all the various city  राज्य  and their peoples , who shared  विशाल  parts of their  जातीय   इतिहास   और  cultural traits with  the  Mexica  ,  Acolhua and Tepanecs , and who often also  प्रयुक्त  the  नावातल  language as a lingua franca  .
In  इस  meaning it is  संभावित   to  talk about  an  Aztec civilization including all the  particular  cultural patterns common  लिये  most of the peoples  inhabiting   सेंट्रल  Mexico in the  लेट   postclassic   काल  .
इससे  the 13th century , the Valley  of  Mexico  थी   the   दिल  of  एज़टेक  civilization :  यहाँ  the capital  of  the  एज़टेक  Triple Alliance ,  the  city of Tenochtitlan , was built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco .
The  ट्रिपल  Alliance formed a tributary  साम्राज्य  expanding its political  आधिपत्य   दूर  beyond the  घाटी   of   मैक्सिको   ,  conquering other city  राज्य   throughout  Mesoamerica .
At  इसके  pinnacle  ,   एज़टेक   संस्कृति  had  समृद्ध  and complex mythological and religious traditions , as well as  reaching  remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments .
In  1521  Hernán Cortés ,  साथ   साथ  a  विशाल  number of Nahuatl  बोलना   स्वदेशी   allies   ,  conquered Tenochtitlan and defeated  the  Aztec  ट्रिपल  Alliance under the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma  ii  .
Subsequently the  स्पेनी   संस्थापित  the new settlement  of   मैक्सिको  City on  the   साईट  of the ruined Aztec capital , from where  वे   proceeded  with the  प्रक्रम   of  colonizing Central America  .
एज़टेक  culture and history is primarily  ज्ञात  through  पुरातत्व   प्रमाण   मिला   in  excavations such as that of  the  renowned  templo  Mayor in  मैक्सिको  City ; from  स्वदेशी  bark paper codices ; from eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors such as Hernán Cortés  और   बर्नल  Díaz del Castillo ; and especially  इससे  16th  और  17th century descriptions  of  Aztec culture and history written by  स्पेनी   clergymen  and  साक्षर   aztecs  in  the   स्पेनी  or Nahuatl language ,  ऐसे   as  the famous Florentine  codex  compiled by the  franciscan  monk Bernardino de Sahagún with  the  help  of  indigenous  एज़टेक   informants   .
Anderson Hays  कूपर   (   born  June 3 , 1967  )   is  an American  पत्रकार   ,  author , and television personality  .
he   is  the  प्राथमिक  anchor of the CNN news  दिखाएँ  Anderson Cooper 360° .
The  कार्यक्रम  is normally broadcast  सजीव   इससे  a  नई  York City studio ; however ,  कूपर  often  प्रसारण  live on  स्थान   लिये   तोड़कर  news stories  .
As of September  2011   ,   he  also  serves  as host  of  his own eponymous  syndicated  daytime talk show , Anderson  सजीव  , which will be cancelled at the end of the second season  .
A plot of a  सामान्य   वितरण  ( or bell-shaped curve ) where each band has  a  width of 1 standard deviation – See also : 68-95-99.7  नियम
Cumulative probability of a  सामान्य   वितरण   साथ  expected  मान  0  और  standard deviation 1 .
In statistics and probability theory , standard deviation (  represented  by the symbol sigma  ,  σ ) shows  कैसा   much   विभिन्नता  or dispersion exists from  the  average ( mean ) , or  अपेक्षित   मान  .
a   कम  standard  विचलन   indicates   कि  the data  अंक  tend  to   be  very  बंद  to  the   औसत  ; high standard  विचलन   indicates  that the data points are spread  आउट   over  a  विशाल  range of values .
The standard deviation  of  a random variable  ,  statistical population , data set , or probability distribution is the square root of  इसके  variance .
It is  algebraically  simpler  हालांकि  practically less  मजबूत   than  the average absolute deviation  .
a  useful property of standard  विचलन  is  कि  , unlike  variance  , it is expressed in the same units as  the  data .
Note  ,   however   ,  that for  माप  with percentage as unit , the standard deviation will have percentage points  as   ईकाई   .
In addition  to  expressing the variability of a population  ,   मानक   विचलन  is commonly  प्रयुक्त  to measure confidence in statistical conclusions  .
For example , the margin  of   गलती  in polling  आंकड़ा   is  determined  by  calculating the  अपेक्षित  standard  विचलन   in  the results if the same  पोल  were to be conducted multiple times  .
the  reported margin of error is  typically   परिचय  twice  the  standard deviation  ­–  the radius  of  a  95  percent  विश्वास  interval .
in  science , researchers  commonly  report the  मानक  deviation  of  experimental data ,  और   तभी  effects that fall far outside the  दायरा  of standard  विचलन  are considered statistically significant – normal random  गलती  or variation in the measurements  is  in this way distinguished from  causal   विभिन्नता  .
Standard deviation is  भी   महत्वपूर्ण  in finance , where the standard  विचलन   on  the  रेट  of  वापसी  on  an  investment is a measure of the volatility of  the  investment .
जब  only  a   नमूना  of data  इससे  a population is available , the standard deviation  of   the  population can be estimated  by  a modified quantity called the ``  नमूना  standard  विचलन  '' .
When the sample is the entire population  ,  its  unmodified  standard deviation  is  called the `` population  मानक   विचलन  '' .
Ulluco  (   u   :   ju  : kɔ  :  ) ( Ullucus  tuberosus  ) is a plant grown primarily as a root  सब्ज़ी  ,  secondarily  as a leaf vegetable  .
the   ulluco   is  one  of  the  सबसे  widely  grown  and economically important root crops  in  the Andean region of South America ,  दूसरी  only  to  the potato .
It is  ज्ञात  there  साथ  the common name  of   पापा  lisa , but also  by  the  क्षेत्रीय   names  melloco  (  Ecuador ) , olluco ( Peru ) , chugua  (  Colombia ) or  ruba   (  Venezuela ) ,  among  others .
the  leaf and  the  tuber are  खाद्य   ,  similar to spinach  और  the potato ,  क्रमशः  .
They are known to  contain  high levels of protein ,  कैल्सियम  , and carotene .
Papalisa were used by the Incas prior  to   आगमन   of  Europeans in  दक्षिण  America .
Ulluco  tubers   हैं  marketed as `` Earth Gems ''  in  New Zealand ,  by   halfords   exotic   उपज   .
Ulluco tubers  in  New Zealand
an  April  24  , 1851  पोस्टर   चेतावनी   the  ``  रंगीन  people of  बोस्टन   ''  about policemen acting  as  slave  catchers  .
The  भगोड़े  Slave Law or Fugitive Slave  अधिनियम  was  passed   by  the United States Congress  on  September  18  , 1850 , as  भाग  of  the   सुलह  of  1850   between  Southern slave-holding  रूचि  and  उत्तरी  Free-Soilers .
इस  was one  of  the most controversial acts of the 1850 compromise and  heightened  Northern fears of a ``  स्लेव  power conspiracy ''  .
It declared  कि  all runaway slaves were ,  upon  capture , to  be  returned to their masters .
abolitionists  nicknamed it the `` Bloodhound Law '' for the dogs that were used  to  track down  runaway   स्लेव  .
Frank Joseph  pallone  , Jr.  (   born   अक्तूबर  30  ,   1951  ) is the U.S.  प्रतिनिधि  for , serving  चूंकि  1993  .
He is  a  member of the Democratic Party .
he   previously  represented the 3rd  ज़िला  from 1988 to 1993 .
Trin-i-tee 5:7  is  a gospel duo from New Orleans  ,  Louisiana in the United States  .
The group was  marketed  as a  इन्जील   वैकल्पिक   to   r  &  b  girl groups such as  नियति   's  Child and TLC .
trin-i-tee  5:7 has sold over  2.5  million  एल्बम   .
In  1998  , the group released their  पहला  album entitled Trin-i-tee 5:7 which debut  at   #  1 on the Top Gospel charts .
The album featured the songs ``  परमेश्वर  's Grace '' and  the  cover  सोंग  `` Oh !
Mary Do n't  तुम   रोते  '' .
The album  बाद  became certified gold .
In 1999 ,  terri   भूरा  left the group and was later replaced by singer Adrian Anderson  .
During  कि  year , the group recorded and  released   उनके  second album  ,  Spiritual Love .
the  album became  the   समूह  's second # 1  एल्बम  on  the  Top  इन्जील  charts  .
the  album  contained  the singles `` Put Your Hands '' and `` My Body  ''  .
In 2002  ,  the  समूह  released their  तीसरा  album The Kiss which  debuted  at  #  2 on the Top  इन्जील  charts .
In 2007  ,  the group left GospoCentric  रिकॉर्ड  and signed  a   रिकार्ड  deal with  स्पिरिट   उठती  Music .
In late 2007 , Trin-i-tee 5:7  released  their fifth  एल्बम  T57 , which featured the top  टेन  gospel single `` Listen ''  .
T57  charted   #  2  on  the  शीर्ष   इन्जील   एल्बम  , # 5 on the Top  ईसाई  charts , and # 12 on the  शीर्ष   r  & B  चार्ट  .
the   संयुक्त  States federal  अर्जित  income tax credit  or  earned income credit  (  EITC or  eic  ) is  a  refundable tax  क्रेडिट  for low-  और   medium-income  individuals  और  couples , primarily  लिये   those   जो  have qualifying  children  .
When the  क्रेडिट  exceeds the amount of  कर  owed , it  परिणाम  in a  कर   refund  to those who claim the  क्रेडिट  .
This credit  is  provided to  ऑफसेट  the burden of social security taxes and  भी  to  प्रचार   an   प्रोत्साहन   to   कार्य  .
In order for a  व्यक्ति  or couple to claim one or more  व्यक्तियों  as  उनके  qualifying child ( ren ) ,  the  age , relationship , and shared  रेसिडेंसी  requirements must be met  ,   as  well as some  अन्य   आवश्यकताएँ   .
u.S.  tax  फ़ॉर्म  1040EZ  ,  1040A ,  or  1040  can  be  प्रयुक्त  to  अर्जी  EIC  बगैर   qualifying  children .
To claim the credit with qualifying  children  ,  1040a  or  1040  must be  प्रयुक्त  ,  as   खूब  as attaching Schedule  eic  .
EIC phases in  धीरे  ,  रै  a  medium-length  plateau , and then  phases   आउट   अधिक   धीरे  than it  phased  in .
Since  the  credit  phases   आउट  at 21 % (  लिये   दो  children and for three or more qualilfying  children  ) or 16 % (  लिये  one qualifying  चाइल्ड   )   ,  it is  सदा  preferable to  have  one more dollar of actual  सैलरी   or  wages (  हालांकि  technically  ,  since  the   eic   तालिका  moves by fifty  डालर   increments  ,  it   's  always preferable  to   have  an extra fifty-dollar  वृद्धि  of salary or wages  )   .
For tax year  2011   ,  the  अधिकतम  EIC for a single  व्यक्ति  or  युगल  filing  बगैर  qualifying children  थी  $  464  .
the  maximum  eic  with  एक  qualifying  चाइल्ड  was $ 3,094 , with two children  थी  $ 5,112 , and  साथ  three or  अधिक   qualifying  children was  $  5,751 .
These  amounts  are  indexed  annually for inflation .
The earned income tax  क्रेडिट  has  महरूम  part of political  debates  in the  संयुक्त  States regarding whether raising the minimum wage or increasing EIC will better address a seeming shortage  of  good-paying jobs .
the  following is a list  of   मध्यांतर  shows held at the National Football League 's championship game , the Super Bowl .
While halftime  shows   हैं   a  tradition during football games at all  स्तर   of   प्रतियोगिता  , the Super  कटोरी  halftime show represents a fundamental link to pop culture ,  जिससे  helps broaden  the   टेलीविज़न   दर्शक  and  देशभर  interest .
In most  सालो  since the mid-1980s ,  the  halftime show of the Super Bowl  रै   प्रदर्शित  popular recording artists and other well-known celebrities .
It has  measurably   increased  television viewers  दौरान  and after  the  halftime show .
the  performance is regarded one of  the  most-watched events in American  टेलीविज़न   annually   साथ  over 100 million viewers  in  the  संयुक्त  States alone .
musical  genres over  the   सालो  have represented a  व्यापक  range  of  music types  ,   सहित  pop , rock  ,   क्लासिक  rock ,  देश   ,  hip hop , rap , blues ,  और  soul .
In  कुछ  years  ,   छोटी  skits  or   नाटक  scenes are  acted  out on a stage .
The performance group  up   साथ  People has performed at  the  most Super Bowl  मध्यांतर  shows ,  अभिनीत  in four  दौरान   the  1970s and 1980s .
According  to  Nielsen  दरजा   ,  Super Bowl XLVI halftime  दिखाएँ  headlined by Madonna  in  2012 remains  the  most-watched  मध्यांतर  show  in  history , with 114 million  दर्शक   or   परिचय  3 million more  than  the  वास्तविक   खेल  .
Beyonce 's 2013  मध्यांतर   दिखाएँ  performance  थी  the  दूसरी   सबसे  viewed show  in   इतिहास  .
It is  सूचीबद्ध  on the Guinness World Records  as   the  largest TV audience for a  सुपर  Bowl half-time performance .
International Men 's Day ( IMD ) is an annual international event  मनाये  on  19th  November .
Inaugurated in 1999 in  त्रिनिदाद  and Tobago , the day and  इसके   कार्यक्रम  find  support  from a  किस्में  of  individuals  and  समूह  in Australia  ,   the   caribbean  , North America , Asia  ,   यूरोपीय  and  अफ़्रीकी  .
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO , Director of Women and Culture of Peace Ingeborg Breines said  of  IMD  ,   ``   इस  is  an   बेहतरीन  idea  और  would give some  लिंग  balance  .  ''
She  added  that UNESCO was looking forward  to  cooperating with  the  organizers .
the  objectives of  celebrating  an International  मेन  's  दिन  include focusing on  मेन  's and boys ' health , improving gender  संबंध  , promoting gender equality  ,  and highlighting  धनात्मक   पुरूष  role models .
It  is  an  अवसर  to  हाइलाइट  discrimination against  मेन  and boys and  to  celebrate  उनके  achievements and contributions , in particular  लिये  their  योगदान  to community ,  परिवार   ,  marriage  ,   और   चाइल्ड  care .
The  broader  and  परम  aim  of  the event  is  to promote basic humanitarian values .
International Men 's  दिन  is  मनाये  in  over  60 countries ,  सहित   त्रिनिदाद  and  टोबैगो  , Jamaica , Australia , India ,  चीन  ,  संयुक्त  States  ,  Romania  ,  Singapore , Malta  ,   संयुक्त  Kingdom  ,   दक्षिण   अफ़्रीकी  ,  तंजानिया  ,  ज़िम्बाब्वे  , Botswana  ,  Seychelles , Burundi  ,  Hungary , Ireland ,  आइल  of  man  , Ghana , Canada , Denmark , Norway , Austria , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Ukraine  ,  France , Italy  ,  Pakistan , Cuba , Antigua  और   बारबूडा   ,   st.  Kitts and  नेविस  , St. Lucia  ,  Grenada and Cayman  आइलैंड्स   ,   on   19   नवम्बर   ,  and global support for the  जश्न  is broad .
Valley Village ParkValley
गाँव  is a district in the San Fernando  घाटी  region  of  Los  एंजिल्स   ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
the   मध्य  age  of  its population , at 36 , is `` old for the  नगर  of Los Angeles . '' and its average household size  of  two  लोगों   is   कम  , compared to other parts of the city  .
Developmental  मनोविज्ञान   is   the  scientific  पढ़ाई  of changes that occur in human beings  over  the course of their life span .
Originally  चिंतित   साथ   infants  and  children  , the field has expanded to include adolescence ,  वयस्क   विकास   ,  aging ,  और  the  संपूर्ण  life  स्पैन  .
इस  field examines  बदलें   आरपार  a broad range  of   विषय   सहित  motor skills and  अन्य  psycho-physiological processes ;  संज्ञानात्मक  development involving  क्षेत्रों  such as problem solving , moral understanding ,  और   conceptual  understanding ;  भाषा  acquisition ;  सोशल  ,  व्यक्तित्व   ,   और   emotional  development ;  और  self-concept and identity formation .
Developmental  मनोविज्ञान  includes issues such as  the  extent to which  विकास  occurs through  the  gradual  accumulation  of knowledge  बनाम   stage-like  development  ,  or the extent to which  children  are born with  स्वाभाविक   दिमागी  structures versus  सीखना  through experience .
Many researchers  हैं  interested in the  बातचीत   between  personal characteristics , the individual  's  behavior  ,   और  environmental factors  सहित  social context , and their impact on development  ;   अन्य  take  a  more narrowly-focused approach .
Developmental  मनोविज्ञान  informs several applied fields ,  सहित  : educational psychology , child  psychopathology  , and forensic developmental psychology  .
developmental  psychology complements several other basic research  फ़ील्ड  in psychology including social psychology , cognitive  मनोविज्ञान  , ecological  मनोविज्ञान  ,  और  comparative  मनोविज्ञान  .
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional  अक्षर   जो  first  appeared  on  the  1970s American  sitcom  All in the  परिवार   .
Joey Stivic was the  बेटे  and  तभी  child  of  Mike  stivic  ( played  by  Rob  reiner   )   और  Gloria Stivic (  निभाई  by Sally Struthers ) , and the grandson of Archie Bunker  (  Carroll O'Connor ) and  एडिथ   बंकर   (  Jean Stapleton ) .
the  character  पहला   appeared  as a newborn baby in a two-part episode  of  All in the Family which aired in December 1975 .
After many  दिखावे  on All  in  the Family until Reiner  और  Struthers left the series  in  1978 ( by that time  ,  Joey had been played most often by alternating twins  जेसन   और   जस्टिन  Draeger  )  , the  जॉय  Stivic character next  appeared  on  the  All  in  the Family spin-off  श्रेणी   (   कुछ  call it  a  continuation  of   the  original  )  Archie  बंकर  's  प्लेस  in  a  guest appearance in the November 1979 episode ``  थैंक्सगिविंग  Reunion . ''
In this instance ,  the  character was  निभाई  by  चाइल्ड   कर्ता  Dick Billingsley  और  was appropriately pre-school age  .
With Gloria now separated  इससे  Mike  ,  she returned to Archie Bunker  's   प्लेस  with  जॉय  in the February 1982  एपीसोड  ``  ग्लोरिया   आता  Home . ''
in  this episode , Joey was played by  क्रिस्टोफर   johnston   .
Joey  stivic  was a regular character on the  सब  in the  परिवार  spin-off series  ग्लोरिया   in  1982 and 1983 .
On  इस  series , in which  the  now-divorced  ग्लोरिया  Bunker character  था  moved to Upstate  नई  York in  अनुक्रम  to work as an  सहायक  veterinarian ,  the  part of  जॉय  Stivic was  निभाई  by  ten-year-old  actor Christian  jacobs   .
After Gloria was canceled in 1983 , Joey Stivic disappeared  इससे  prime time  टेलीविज़न  for  11  years , until the  अक्षर  made one last  रूप  on 704 Hauser ,  a  short-lived 1994 series  परिचय  a  ब्लैक  family  जो  had  स्थानांतरित  into the old  बंकर  home  ,   सालो  after  बंकर  had sold it .
in  this  रूप  , the Joey Stivic character was played  by   केसी   siemaszko  , an actor born in  1961  (  14  years before Joey  stivic  's  fictional  birth  )  .
In 1976 the Ideal Toy  कम्पनी  released  a  14-inch  ``   जॉय   stivic  doll '' ( called `` Archie Bunker 's  पोता  ''  )  which  थी  billed as  the  `` first anatomically  सही  male doll .  ''
The doll inspired  mild  controversy at  the   समय  , and is a collectors ' item today .
The 2011  रोज़  Bowl was the 97th  संस्करण  of the annual  कटोरी  game played on January  1  ,  2011   ,   as  part of the 2010 college football  ऋतु   .
निभाई  in Pasadena , California , the TCU Horned Frogs of the Mountain  वेस्ट   सम्मेलन  defeated  the  Wisconsin Badgers of  the  Big Ten Conference  by   a  score of  21   –  19 .
The Pasadena  टूर्नामेंट  of Roses Association  थी  the organizer of the game  .
Vizio Inc. was the corporate sponsor and  the  game was  officially  named `` The Rose Bowl Game presented by Vizio ''  .
This game marked  the   पहला   समय  a  टोली  from a non-Automatic Qualifying Conference played in ,  और  won  ,   the   रोज़  Bowl  in   इसके  97  सालो  .
The contest was  ब्रॉडकास्ट   on   केबल  television station ESPN with a radio broadcast on ESPN Radio  और  XM Satellite Radio and ESPN3 streaming video over  the   अंतरजाल  .
Coverage began at 1:30 PM ( PST )  साथ  kickoff at 2:10 PM  (  PST  )   .
This  चिह्नित   the  first time that  the   खेल  was not broadcast nationally  ``   over-the-air  ''  (  terrestrial television ) since  the  games  prior  to the 1952 Rose Bowl  ,   जिससे  was the  पहला  nationally televised college football game .
the  Rose Bowl  खेल   ,   प्रसंग  Building Dreams  ,  Friendships ,  &  Memories ,  थी  a  contractual  sell-out , with 64,500 tickets  आबंटित   to  the participating  टीमों  and  सम्मेलनों   .
Ticket prices for all seats  in  the  रोज़  Bowl are listed at  $  145 .
The remaining tickets went to the  टूर्नामेंट  of Roses members  ,  sponsors ,  नगर   of  Pasadena residents  ,   और  the  सामान्य  public  .
the   रोज़  Bowl  स्टेडियम  capacity is  सूचीबद्ध   at  approximately 91,000  .
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the  महाद्वीपीय  Congress  on   जुलाई  4 , 1776  ,  which announced  कि  the thirteen  अमरीकी   colonies   ,  then at war  साथ  Great Britain , regarded  themselves  as independent states  ,   और  no  longer  a part of the British Empire .
Instead they now formed  a  new nation—the United States  of   अमेरिका   .
John  एडम्स  was a leader in  pushing  for independence  ,  which was unanimously approved on July  2  .
A committee  था   already  drafted the  औपचारिक  declaration , to  be   तैयार  when congress voted  on   स्वतंत्रता  .
एडम्स  persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson  to  compose the original draft  of  the document ,  जिससे  congress would  संपादन  to produce  the  final  संस्करण  .
The  घोषणा  was ultimately a formal explanation of why  कॉंग्रेस  had voted on July 2  to   घोषित  independence from Great Britain ,  अधिक  than a year  बाद   the  outbreak of  the   अमरीकी   क्रांतिकारी   युद्ध   .
The national  जन्मदिवस   ,  the Independence Day is  मनाये  on July  4   ,  although Adams  चाही  July 2 .
After ratifying the text on July 4 , Congress  जारी  the  घोषणा  of Independence in several forms  .
It was initially published  as   the  printed Dunlap broadside  कि  was widely distributed  और   पढ़ा   to  the public .
The most  प्रसिद्ध   संस्करण  of the Declaration  ,  a  हस्ताक्षरित   नक़ल   कि  is popularly  regarded  as the Declaration of Independence , is displayed at the National Archives  in   वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
Although the wording  of  the  घोषणा  was approved on July  4  , the  तिथि  of its  हस्ताक्षर  was August 2 .
The original July 4  संयुक्त  States Declaration of Independence manuscript was lost while  सब  other  नक़ल   have  been derived  इससे   इस   असली  document .
The sources and interpretation of the  घोषणा  have  महरूम   the  subject  of  much scholarly inquiry .
the  Declaration  जायज   the  independence  of  the United  राज्य  by listing colonial grievances against King George  iii   ,   और  by asserting  निश्चित  natural and  विधिक  rights , including a right of revolution .
Having served  इसके  original purpose in announcing independence ,  the  text of the  घोषणा  was  initially  ignored after the American Revolution  .
Since  तब  ,  it  has  आइये  to be considered a major statement on human  अधिकारों  , particularly  इसके   दूसरी  sentence:
We  थाम  these truths  to  be self-evident ,  कि  all  मेन   हैं  created  बराबर  , that they are endowed by  उनके  Creator with certain unalienable Rights ,  कि  among these are  जीवन  ,  स्वतंत्रता  and  the  pursuit of Happiness .
इस   रै  been called `` one  of  the best-known sentences in the English language '' , containing ``  the  most potent and consequential  शब्द  in American history . ''
The passage  आए   to  represent a moral standard to  जिससे  the United States should  नीयत  .
This  दृश्य  was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln , who considered  the  Declaration to be the  न्यास  of  उसके   राजनैतिक   दर्शनशास्त्र   ,   और   argued  that the  घोषणा  is a statement of principles through which the  संयुक्त  States Constitution should be  interpreted  .
It  रै   प्रेरित  work for the rights  of  marginalized people throughout the world .
Chitty Chitty Bang Bang is a 1968 British musical  फिल्मी  loosely based  on   इयान   फ्लेमिंग  's novel  .
the   फिल्मी   's  script is by  roald  Dahl and Ken Hughes  और  its  गीतों   by  the Sherman Brothers  .
it  stars  लंड  Van Dyke  as   caractacus  Potts and Sally  ऐन  Howes as Truly  scrumptious  .
the  film was  निर्देशित   by  Ken Hughes  और  produced by  अल्बर्ट  R.  ब्रोकोली   (   co-producer  of  the  James Bond series of films , also based on Fleming  's  novels ) .
John Stears supervised  the   खास  effects .
Irwin Kostal supervised and conducted the  म्यूज़िक   ,  while the musical numbers were  मंचन   by   मार्क  Breaux and Dee  dee  Wood  .
a   प्रदेश   is  arid  जब   it   is   characterized  by a severe  कमी   of  available water ,  to  the extent  of  hindering or preventing  the  growth and development of plant  और  animal  जीवन   .
environments  subject  to  arid climates tend  to  lack vegetation  और   हैं  called xeric  or  desertic .
Most  ``  arid ''  climates   घेर  the  equator  ; these  स्थान  include most of Africa and  भाग  of South America  और  Central America .
Cancer (  ♋  ) is an  astrological  sign ,  जिससे  is associated  साथ  the  नक्षत्र   कर्कट   .
It  spans   the  90-120th degree of the zodiac ,  between  90  और  125.25  उपाधि   of   celestial   देशांतर   ,  which  the   सूर्य   transits  this area  on  average between  जून  22 to July 22  प्रत्येक  year .
And under the sidereal zodiac ,  it   is  currently from July 21 to August 9  .
the   संयुक्त   राज्य  presidential  चुनाव  of  1960   थी   the   44th  quadrennial presidential  चुनाव   ,   आयोजित  on  मंगलवार  ,  नवम्बर  8 , 1960 .
the  Republican  पार्टी   मनोनीत  incumbent  vice-president  Richard Nixon , while the  लोकतांत्रिक  Party nominated  जॉन  F. Kennedy , Senator from Massachusetts .
The  लाज़िम  President  ,  Republican Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर   ,  was  नहीं  eligible  लिये   re-election  after serving  the   अधिकतम  two terms allowed  by   the  Twenty-second  amendment  .
Kennedy was elected  साथ  a lead  of  112,827  मत  ,  or  0.17 % of the popular vote , giving him  a  victory of 303 to  219  in  the   चुनावी  College ,  the  closest since 1916 .
This was the  पहला   चुनाव   in   जिससे  all fifty  of   the  current United States participated  .
a   क्रमांक   of  factors  बताइये  why the election was so close .
Kennedy  gained   चूंकि  there was an  आर्थिक  recession  जिससे  hurt  the   लाज़िम  Republican , and he had the  लाभ   of  17  लाख  more registered Democrats  than  Republicans .
Furthermore , the new votes  कि   कैनेडी  gained among  catholics  almost neutralized the new votes Nixon gained  among  Protestants  .
कैनेडी   's   campaigning  skills decisively  outmatched  Nixon 's .
In the end  ,  Nixon 's emphasis on his  अनुभव  carried little  वज़न  , and he  wasted  energy by  campaigning  in all  50  states instead  of  concentrating on the  झूले  states .
कैनेडी  used his  विशाल  , well-funded campaign organization to  जीत  the nomination , secure endorsements  ,   और  , with the aid of  the   पिछला  of  the   big-city  bosses , to  मिलेंगी   आउट  the vote  in  the big  शहरों  .
He relied  on  running mate Lyndon B. Johnson  to  hold  the  South and used television effectively .
This  चुनाव  is notable  as   होने   the  first time  in  U.S. history that two  बैठे   u.s  .  सीनेटरों  ( Kennedy  और  Johnson ) were  निर्वाचित  as  अध्यक्ष   और  vice-president , a phenomenon  कि  has been repeated  एकबार  ,  by   बराक   ओबामा  and  जो  Biden  in  2008  (  in both cases , the  अध्यक्ष  was the  younger  ,  अधिक  junior  सीनेटर   )  .
शेरवुड  is a city in Washington County  ,  Oregon  ,  United  राज्य   .
Located  in   the   southeast   कोने   of  the county , it is a residential community in  the   tualatin  Valley southwest of Portland .
The population was 11,791 at the 2000 census .
according   to  the 2010 census , the population  थी  18,205  निवासियों  .
Indirectly  नामित   लिये  the Sherwood  वन   in   इंग्लैण्ड  , it was first  incorporated   in  1893 as a town  .
The USA PATRIOT Act  of  2001 is  an  Act  of  the  u.S.   कॉंग्रेस  that was signed into law  by   अध्यक्ष  George W.  बुश  on October 26 , 2001 .
The title of  the  act is  a  ten letter  एक्रोनिम   (  USA PATRIOT  )  that stands for Uniting ( and ) Strengthening America  (  by ) Providing Appropriate Tools Required ( to )  इंटरफेस   (   और  )  obstruct  Terrorism  अधिनियम   of  2001 .
The  अधिनियम  , as a response  to   the   आतंकवादी  attacks of  सितंबर  11th , significantly  घटाया  restrictions in  विधि  enforcement agencies  '  gathering of intelligence within the United States ; expanded the Secretary  of   the  Treasury’s authority to regulate financial transactions ,  विशेषकर   those  involving foreign individuals and entities ; and  broadened  the discretion of law enforcement  और  immigration  अधिकारियों  in  निमाड़   और  deporting immigrants suspected of  terrorism-related   अधिनियमों  .
The act also expanded  the   परिभाषा   of  terrorism to include domestic terrorism , thus enlarging the number of activities to which  the  USA  patriot  Act’s  विस्तारित  law enforcement powers  can   be   लागू   .
On May 26 , 2011  ,   अध्यक्ष  Barack Obama used  an  Autopen to  चिह्न  the PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act of  2011   ,  a four-year  एक्सटेंशन  of three  कुंजी  provisions in the USA PATRIOT Act while he was in  फ़्रांस  : roving wiretaps , searches of  कारोबार  records  (   the  `` library  रिकॉर्ड  provision `` ) ,  और   conducting  surveillance of ``  लोन  wolves  ''  —  individuals  suspected of terrorist-related  क्रियाएँ  not linked to terrorist groups  .
Republican leaders questioned if the  उपयोग  of  the  Autopen met the constitutional  आवश्यकताएँ  for signing  a   विधेयक  into law .
A house  in   महारानी  Anne style at 223 Avenue A  .
Snohomish  is   a   नगर  in Snohomish County  ,  Washington , United States  .
the  population was  9,098  at the 2010 census .
The mayor of Snohomish is Karen  guzak  , and the City Manager is  लैरी  Bauman .
Snohomish prides  itself  for  इसके  historical downtown ,  और  was once known  लिये  its many antique shops  जब  it  थी  known as the `` Antique Capital  of  the Northwest . ''
The historic business  और  residential center  of  the  कस्बा   constitutes  the Snohomish Historic  ज़िला  , which is listed on the National Register of Historic  स्थान  .
Many  घरों  bear plaques with the year  the  house was built  और  the  नाम  of the family or individual who originally occupied it .
Once every year  ,   the  city gives tours of the historic  घरों   ;   एक  of  उन्हें  , the Blackman  हाउस  , is a year-round museum .
a  general aviation airfield , Harvey Airfield  ,   is  less than one mile southwest of  शहर  Snohomish  .
डेव  Matthews  बैंड  (  dmb  ) is  an   अमरीकी  rock band that  थी  formed in Charlottesville ,  वर्जिनिया  ,  संयुक्त   राज्य  , in  1991   .
the   founding   सदस्यों  were singer-songwriter  और  guitarist  डेव  Matthews , bassist  stefan   lessard   ,  drummer /backing vocalist  कार्टर  Beauford and  saxophonist  LeRoi  मूर  .
Boyd  tinsley  was added to the band  as  a  violinist  soon after the band  थी  formed .
मूर   died  suddenly  in  August 2008 due to  जटिलताओं   इससे  injuries sustained  in  an ATV accident  .
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla  fleck  and the  flecktones  has  चूंकि   भर  Moore  's  spot as  the  band 's saxophonist  .
Rashawn Ross and Tim Reynolds  have  also become  full-time  touring members  of  the band .
The band 's  2009   एल्बम  Big Whiskey  और  the GrooGrux King ( the first album  चूंकि  Moore 's death  )   debuted  at  क्रमांक  one on  the   बिलबोर्ड  200 , earning the band their fifth  लगातार  number-one  debut—  making them the second  बैंड  behind Metallica to do so  .
Their  सबसे  recent  एल्बम  ,  दूर  from  the  World , was released  in   2012  ,  और   भी  debuted at  क्रमांक  one  on  the  बिलबोर्ड  chart .
As of 2010  ,  the Dave Matthews Band has sold  over   30  million records worldwide .
the  band is known  लिये   उनके   सालाना   summer-long  tours of the United States  और  Europe  ,   featuring   lengthy   improvisational  renditions  of  their songs , accompanied by an elaborate video  और   lighting  show .
इस   portion  of  the  tour  रै  become a  स्टैम्प   of  DMB and  रै  grown with  the  band since Fenton Williams began working  साथ  them  in  the early  1990s  .
After  बीस   लगातार  years of  touring  the band  घोषित   कि  it would take  the   गर्मियाँ  of 2011 off  .
Dave Matthews Band  रै  won one  ग्रैमी  Award , and was awarded the  naacp  Chairman 's  पुरस्कार  .
According to Julian Bond ,  ``  they sell  आउट  the largest  arenas  on Earth  ,  but frequently give their music away .  ''
Transcendental Wild Oats :  a   अध्याय  from  an  Unwritten Romance is a  गद्य   व्यंग्य   लिखा   by  Louisa May  alcott   ,   परिचय  her  परिवार  's involvement  साथ   the   transcendentalist  community  fruitlands  in the  जल्दी  1840s .
the  work was first published in  a   नई  York newspaper in 1873 ,  और  reprinted in 1874 , 1876 , and 1915 and  बाद   .
In  उसके  account  ,  Alcott  provides   the   रियल  people involved with  पतला  pseudonymous disguises .
उसके  father Amos Bronson  alcott  is  ``  Abel Lamb , '' while his partner and  जातियाँ  co-founder  चार्ल्स  Lane is `` Timon Lion ;  ''   अबीगैल  May Alcott ,  louisa  's mother and Bronson 's wife  ,   is  `` Sister  आशा  .  ''
Alcott depicts  उसके  father as dominated by  उसके   अधिक   forceful   संगी  , and both men as  लापरवाह  and impractical dreamers .
The men  of  the community spend  उनके  time in pointless debates while Sister Hope  works  from dawn to dusk to  maintain   उनके  existence  .
A crisis arises at  कटाई  time ,  जब  the grain crop  is  threatened by  an   approaching   तूफ़ान  .
In  alcott  's words  ,  `` About  the  time the grain  थी  ready to  हाउस  , some call of  the   oversoul  wafted  सब  the men away . ''
Sister  आशा   organizes  the only available help , three  छोटी  girls and a  लड़के  , and manages  to  save  the  crop  .
The little  जातियाँ  collapses as  जल्द  as the weather turns cold , when  it  becomes clear that  उनके  provisions are too  meager  to last the  coming   शीत  .
timon   शेर  and  उसके  son  abscond   to  join the Shakers — though  timon  is  अप्रसन्न   to  learn that  जीवन  among them is ``  सब  work and no  खेल  .  ''
Abel is crushed  by  the failure  of  the enterprise ; after days of despair  he   begins  to eat again only when he realizes that his family needs him .
Sister Hope  पाता   a  way for  उन्हें  to subsist and persevere .
Alcott 's view  of  male arrogance and female exploitation in this piece  is  paralleled  in   उसके   अनोखा  ,  प्रकाशित  in the same year as `` Transcendental Wild Oats . ''
`` Transcendental Wild Oats  ''  has been reprinted in several  आधुनिक  editions .
माउंट   of  the Holy Cross is  the  northernmost 14,000-foot mountain in the  sawatch  Range , part of the Rocky Mountains in  कोलोराडो   .
It is located in  the  Holy Cross  wilderness  near the ghost town of Holy  क्रॉस  City  और   in  Eagle County  .
it  was named for the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the northeast face .
Under USDA  वन  Service administration , the mountain was  proclaimed   ``   पावन  Cross  नेशनल  Monument  ''   by   हर्बर्ट  Hoover  on  May 11 , 1929 .
The monument was transferred to the National  पार्क   सेवा  in  1933  .
In  1950  , it was  लौटे  to  the   वन  Service  और   खोया  its  नेशनल   स्मारक  status—the number of  विज़िटर  to  the  mountain and the nearby  ``  Pilgrim 's  हट  '' had  waned  , and the expense of full-time staff  could  not be  जायज   .
This mountain  रै   महरूम  the subject of painters , photographers and even a  कविता  by  हेनरी  Wadsworth Longfellow  ,   (   the  Cross  of  Snow  )  .
The first publicly  उपलब्धियाँ  photograph was published in National  भौगोलिक  magazine .
Thomas  मोरान   चित्रित  the mountain in  an  oil painting ,  जिससे  now  is   भाग  of the  संग्रहण   of  the Museum  of   the  American  वेस्ट   ,  part of the  autry   नेशनल   बीच  in Los Angeles ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   .
It is still much photographed but it is not as well known  आज   as  it was in  the  past .
आसपास   सुविधाएँ   शामिल  Bowl  of  Tears Lake , directly  अंतर्गत  the east face  of  the  शिखर  ,  tuhare  Lakes , in a  cirque  that lies  दक्षिण   of  a significant subpeak , and several other  झीलों  .
Notable locations  भीतर  include the Dotsero volcano ( near Interstate  70   )  ,  vail  and  aspen   .
US 24  रनों  near the peak  through   gilman   .
Photochrom print of Mount  of   the   पावन  Cross c. 1900  .
इस  image  is   a  reversed view  of  the mountain  compared  to how it  दरअसल  appears .
The first recorded  ascent  of Holy Cross was  in   1873  , by F.  V.   hayden  and photographer W. H.  जैक्सन  during one  of  Hayden 's geographical surveys .
However , the peak may  खूब  have  महरूम   ascended  previously by  खनिक  or  अमरीकी  Indians  .
The first winter  ascent   of  the peak was made  in   1943   by  Russel  keene  and Howard  freedman  of the 10th Mountain Division ,  तब  stationed  at   शिविर  Hale .
Holy Cross can  be  climbed by  at  least four  अलग   रूट  ,  साथ   the  easiest and most  आम  route being the North  लकीरें  ,  जिससे   involves  of vertical gain  over   और  is  रेटेड  YDS Class 2 for moderate scrambling .
the  Cross Couloir route forms the  लंबवत  portion of the famous  क्रॉस  feature  ,   और   provides  an advanced snow climb or  चरम  ski  descent   .
Mount of the Holy Cross has  a   इतिहास  of  endangering  the  जीवनदान  of many hikers .
Primarily , the hikers who require rescue are unfamiliar with the risks  of  entering  wilderness   क्षेत्रों  and do not bring adequate equipment  और  supplies to  respond   to  emergency  शर्तें  .
Although  the  summit on Mount of the  पावन  Cross  is   अक्सर  reached on a  long  day hike , unprepared hikers  हैं  frequently stranded  or  lost  due  to  बदलना   पर्यावरणीय  conditions and  भ्रम  regarding the surrounding landscape , especially on  the  descent of  उत्तर  Ridge .
Thorough research  और  reasonable  नियोजन  should  prevent  most tragedies  .
Mount  of  the  पावन  cross is accessible from Tigiwon Road  ,  south  of   minturn   ,  Colorado .
the   हाफ  Moon  pass  Trail  is   the  standard route to the summit of Mount  of  the Holy Cross via the  उत्तर  Ridge .
Following the  पतन  Creek  ट्रेल  to an  ascent  of Notch Mountain Trail  provides   the  best  दृश्य  of the Holy Cross snow feature from  पायदान  Mountain  लकीरें  .
The GSM logo is  प्रयुक्त  to identify compatible  handsets   और  equipment
GSM ( Global System for  मोबाईल  Communications  ,  originally ' ) ,  is  a standard set developed by the  यूरोपीय  Telecommunications Standards Institute ( ETSI )  to   describe   प्रोटोकॉल  for  दूसरी  generation ( 2G ) digital  सेल्यूलर  networks used by mobile phones .
It became  the  de  facto   वैश्विक  standard for mobile  संचार  with over 80  %  market  share  .
The  जीएसएम  standard was  विकसित  as  a   बदलना  for  पहला  generation ( 1G  )  analog  सेल्यूलर  networks , and  originally  described a digital ,  सर्किट   switched  network  अनुकूलित  for full duplex voice telephony .
This  थी   विस्तारित   over  time to include data communications , first by circuit switched transport , then  पैकेट   आंकड़ा  transport  via   gprs  (  सामान्य  Packet Radio Services )  और   किनारे  (  उन्नत  Data rates for GSM  एवोल्यूशन  or  egprs   )   .
Further improvements were made when the 3GPP developed third generation  (  3G )  umts  standards  followed   by   चौथी  generation (  4g  ) LTE Advanced standards .
``  GSM ''  is  a trademark owned by the GSM Association .
अध्यक्ष  Franklin  D.  Roosevelt  लक्षण  the  lend-lease  bill to give  सहायता  to  ब्रिटेन  and China  (  1941  )
The  lend  Lease act  थी  an  अधिनियम   जहाँ  the United States  था  supported its allies .
lend-lease  ( ) was the law  कि   प्रारंभ  a program under which the United  राज्य   of  America  supplied   the  United  किंगडम   ,   the  USSR , Republic of China , Free France , and other  अलाइड   राष्ट्र  with  materiel  between  1941  and  1945  .
It was signed  into  law  on  March 11  ,   1941   ,  a  साल  and a half after the  outbreak  of World War  ii   in  Europe in September 1939 .
इस  was nine months before the U.S. entered  the  war in December  1941  .
Formally  titled  An Act to Further Promote  the   रक्षा   of  the  संयुक्त  States , the Act effectively  ended  the United States ' pretense of neutrality .
A total  of  $ 50  .1  billion (  समतुल्य  to  $  today ) worth of supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 billion  to  Britain , $ 11.3 billion to the Soviet Union , $  3.2  billion  to   फ़्रांस  ,  $  1.6 billion to China , and  छोटी   रकम  to other Allies  .
रिवर्स   lend-lease   comprised  services such as rent on air  bases  that went to the  u.S.  , and totaled  $  7.8 billion ;  of  this ,  $  6.8  अरब  came from the British and  the  Commonwealth .
The  शर्तें   of  the agreement  provided   कि  the  materiel   थी   to  be used until time for their return  or   विनाश  .
आपूर्तियाँ   बाद  the termination date were sold  to  Britain  at  a large discount for £1 .075 billion using long-term loans from  the  United States .
Canada operated a  समान   कार्यक्रम  that  भेजा  $ 4.7 billion  in  supplies to the  संयुक्त  Kingdom  और  the Soviet Union .
the   संयुक्त   राज्य  did not charge for  सहायता  supplied under this legislation .
इस  program was  a  decisive  कदम  away from non-interventionist policy  ,  which had dominated  संयुक्त  States foreign relations since the end of  संसार  War I , towards international  भागीदारी  .
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ) , also called sunroot  ,   sunchoke  , earth apple or topinambour , is  a  species  of  sunflower  देशी  to  पूर्वी  North  अमेरिका   ,  and found from eastern Canada and Maine  वेस्ट  to  उत्तर  Dakota ,  और  south to northern Florida and Texas  .
it   is  also cultivated widely  आरपार  the temperate  मण्डल  for its tuber ,  जिससे   is   प्रयुक्त  as a root  सब्ज़ी  .
कैस्टिलो   सैन  Felipe del Morro  भी  known as Fort San Felipe  डेल   morro   or  Morro Castle , is a 16th-century citadel located in  सैन   जुआन   ,  Puerto  रीको   .
Stonehenge is a prehistoric monument in  विल्टशायर  , England , about west of Amesbury  और  north of  salisbury  .
One of the most famous sites in the  संसार  , Stonehenge is the remains of a ring of  खड़ा   पत्थरों   नियत   भीतर   earthworks  .
It is  in  the middle of  the   सबसे   घना   जटिल   of  Neolithic and  कांस्य  Age  स्मारक  in England , including several hundred burial mounds .
archaeologists   मानना  it  थी   निर्मित  anywhere from 3000 BC to  2000  BC  .
radiocarbon   डेटिंग  in 2008 suggested that the  पहला  stones were  उठाया   between   2400   और  2200  bc  , whilst  another  theory  suggests  that bluestones may have  महरूम   उठाया  at the site  as  early as  3000   bc  .
The  surrounding  circular  धरती  bank and  खाई  , which constitute  the   earliest   phase   of  the monument  ,   have  been  दिनाँक   to  about 3100  bc  .
The site and its  परिवेश  were  added   to  the UNESCO 's list  of  World Heritage  साइट  in  1986   in  a  co-listing   साथ  Avebury Henge .
It is a national legally protected Scheduled  प्राचीन  Monument .
Stonehenge is owned  by  the Crown and  प्रबंधित  by English  विरासत   ,  while the surrounding land  is  owned  by  the National Trust .
Archaeological  प्रमाण  found by the Stonehenge Riverside  प्रोजेक्ट  in 2008 indicates that Stonehenge  could   have  been  a  burial  मैदान   इससे   इसके  earliest beginnings  .
The  डेटिंग  of cremated remains found on  the   साईट  indicate that  जमा  contain human bone  इससे   as   जल्दी  as 3000 BC ,  जब  the ditch and bank were first dug .
Such deposits  जारी   at   stonehenge  for at least another 500  सालो   .
the  site  is  a place of  धार्मिक   significance  and  यात्राएं  in  neo-druidry  .
The NCAA Women  's  Division I Championship is an  सालाना   कॉलेज  basketball  टूर्नामेंट  for women .
आयोजित   प्रत्येक  April , the Women 's  चैंपियनशिप  was inaugurated  in  the 1981–82 season .
The NCAA tournament was  preceded  by the  aiaw  Women  's   बास्केट  Tournament , which  थी   आयोजित   annually  from  1972  to 1982 .
Basketball  थी   एक  of  बारह  women 's sports  added   to   the   ncaa  championship  कार्यक्रम  for the  1981-82   स्कूल   साल  , as the NCAA engaged in battle with  the   संघ   लिये  Intercollegiate Athletics for  महिलाओं  for  एकमात्र  governance of women 's collegiate sports .
The AIAW continued to conduct  इसके  established championship  कार्यक्रम  in  the   वही  twelve ( and  अन्य   )   खेल  ; however , after a year  of  dual women 's  championships  ,  the   ncaa  prevailed , while the AIAW disbanded .
Attendance and interest in the Women  's   प्रभाग  I Championship  have  grown over the years ,  विशेषकर   चूंकि   2003   ,   जब  the  फाइनल   चैंपियनशिप  game was moved to  the   मंगलवार   following  the Monday  मेन   's  championship game .
The women 's championship  खेल  is  अभी  the final  overall  game of the college basketball season .
पहले  that , the Women 's Final Four  थी  usually played on the  शुक्रवार  before the Men 's  फाइनल   चार  or  the  hours before  the  men played on the final Saturday of the tournament  .
The final was usually played  the   संडे  afternoon  following  the Men  's   फाइनल  Four .
the  tournament bracket is  बना  up  of  champions from  प्रत्येक  Division  i  conference  ,  which receive automatic bids .
The remaining  स्लॉट   हैं  at-large bids  ,  with teams  चुनी  by an NCAA selection committee .
the  selection process and  टूर्नामेंट  seedings  हैं  based on  अनेक   कारकों  , including team rankings , win-loss records and Ratings  प्रतिशत   अनुक्रमणिका  ( RPI ) data .
Unlike the men 's tournament  ,  there are only 32 at-large bids  (  as of the next tournament  in  2014  )  , and no  play-in   खेल   .
The women 's tournament , like the men  's  ,  is   मंचन   in  a single elimination  स्वरूप  ,  और   is  part  of  the  मीडिया   और   पब्लिक  frenzy known colloquially as March Madness or  the  Big Dance  .
सब  63  खेल  have been broadcast on television since 2003 on  ईएसपीएन  and ESPN2 .
Similar to  the  pre-2011  मेन  's tournament coverage on CBS , local  टीमों   हैं  shown on each  चैनल   जब   उपलब्धियाँ  , with  ``  whip-around  ''  coverage designed  to  showcase  the  most competitive contests in the  बाकी  of  the  country .
The Rosetta Stone in the British Museum
The Rosetta Stone is  an  ancient  मिश्र  granodiorite stele inscribed with a  डिक्री   जारी  at Memphis in  196  BC on behalf  of  King Ptolemy  v  .
The decree appears in three  स्क्रिप्ट  :  the  upper text is Ancient Egyptian  चित्रलिपि   ,  the middle portion Demotic script ,  और   the  lowest Ancient Greek  .
Because it presents essentially the same  टेक्स्ट   in  all three scripts  (   साथ  some  नाबालिग  differences between  उन्हें  )  ,  it provided the key to  the  modern understanding  of   मिश्र  hieroglyphs .
Originally  प्रदर्शित  within a temple , the  स्टोन  was probably  स्थानांतरित  during the early  ईसाई  or  मध्यकालीन  period  और  eventually used as  भवन   सामग्री   in   the  construction of  फोर्ट   जुलिएन  near  the   कस्बा   of  Rashid ( Rosetta  )  in the Nile  डेल्टा  .
it  was rediscovered there  in   1799  by a soldier , Pierre-François Bouchard ,  of   the  French expedition  to  Egypt  .
As the first  प्राचीन  Egyptian bilingual text recovered in modern times , the Rosetta Stone aroused widespread public interest  साथ   इसके  potential to  decipher   इस  hitherto  untranslated  ancient language .
Lithographic  नक़ल  and plaster casts began circulating  among  European museums and scholars .
Meanwhile  ,  British troops  पराजित   the  French  in  Egypt  in  1801 , and the original  स्टोन  came  into  British possession under the Capitulation of  एलेक्जेंड्रिया   .
Transported to London , it  रै  been on public display at the British Museum  चूंकि  1802 .
It  is   the  most-visited object in the British Museum .
Ever since its  rediscovery   ,  the stone has been the focus of nationalist rivalries , including its  ट्रांसफ़र  from French  to   अंग्रेजों  possession  दौरान   the  Napoleonic  युद्धों   ,  a long-running dispute over the relative  मान  of Young 's  और  Champollion  's   योगदान  to  the  decipherment  ,  and since  2003  ,  मांगे   लिये  the stone 's return to Egypt  .
Study of the decree  थी   already   अंतर्गत  way as  the  first full translation of  the  Greek  टेक्स्ट  appeared in  1803  .
It was  20   सालो  ,  however  , before the transliteration of the Egyptian  स्क्रिप्ट  was announced  by   jean-françois  Champollion  in  Paris  in   1822  ; it  took  longer still before scholars were  समर्थ  to  पढ़ा  Ancient Egyptian inscriptions and  साहित्य  confidently .
Major  अग्रिम   in   the   डिकोडिंग  were : recognition  कि  the stone offered three versions  of  the  वही   टेक्स्ट  ( 1799 ) ; that  the  demotic  टेक्स्ट  used  ध्वन्यात्मक  characters to spell foreign  names  (  1802   )  ; that the  hieroglyphic  text did  so  as  खूब   ,  and  था  pervasive similarities to the demotic (  थामस   यंग  , 1814  )  ; and that , in  जोड  to being used for  विदेशी  names , phonetic characters were also used  to   वर्तनी  native Egyptian words (  champollion  , 1822–1824  )   .
दो  other fragmentary copies  of  the same decree were discovered  बाद  , and several similar  मिश्र  bilingual or trilingual inscriptions  हैं  now known  ,   सहित   दो   थोड़ा   पहले   ptolemaic   डिक्री  (  the  Decree of  canopus  in  238  BC  ,  and  the  Memphis decree  of  Ptolemy  iv  ,  ca  . 218  bc   )  .
The Rosetta Stone is therefore no longer unique , but it  थी   the   अनिवार्य  key to modern  समझना   of  Ancient Egyptian literature and  सभ्यता  .
The term Rosetta Stone  is  now used in other contexts  as  the name  लिये  the essential clue to  a   नई  field of knowledge .
Poison  डार्ट   मेंढक   (   भी  dart-poison  मेंढक  , poison frog or formerly poison arrow  मेंढक  )  is   the  common name  of  a  समूह  of  मेंढक   in  the family  dendrobatidae   जिससे   हैं  native to Central  और  South  अमेरिका  .
These species are  diurnal  and often  have   brightly   रंगीन  bodies  .
Although all wild dendrobatids are at least  somewhat  toxic  ,  levels of  toxicity  vary considerably from  एक  species to  the  next and  इससे  one population to another  .
अनेक  species are threatened .
These  amphibians  are often  पुकारा  `` dart frogs ''  due  to the Amerindians ' indigenous use of  उनके   to  poison  the  tips of blowdarts .
However , of  over  175  प्रजाति  , only four have been documented  as  being  प्रयुक्त   लिये  this  purpose   (   curare  plants are  अधिक  commonly used  )   ,   सब  of  जिससे  come from  the   phyllobates  genus  ,   जिससे  is characterized by  the   अपेक्षाकृत  large size  और  high levels of toxicity of its members .
Cajeta is a Mexican confection  of  thickened  सिरप   प्रायः  made of sweetened  caramelised  milk  .
according  to  शेफ़  Rick Bayless ,  the   नाम   लिये   cajeta   आए  from  the   स्पेनी  phrase  al  punto de cajeta , which means ``  a  liquid thickened  to  the point at  जिससे  a  चमचा  drawn through the  द्रव  reveals the bottom  of  the  घट  in  जिससे   it  is being cooked  ''  .
another  hypothesis is that  it  takes its name from the  छोटी  wooden  बाक्स  in  जिससे  it was traditionally packed .
Mexican cajeta  is  considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state of  guanajuato  , although it is also produced  साथ  the traditional method in several towns of  the   राज्य  of  jalisco  , such  as  Mazamitla ,  sayula   ,   और   atotonilco   el  Alto .
Cajeta is made by  simmering  goat 's  मिल्क  , or occasionally  a  sweetened liquid  ,  stirring frequently , until it becomes very  viscous  due to evaporation of  जल  , and caramelized .
While goat milk is the most usual  आधार  ,  अन्य   liquids  or juices may be used .
In Celaya , and eventually the  बाकी  of Mexico  ,  the confection of half  बकरी  's milk and half  गाय   's  milk became known  by  the name cajeta , but  elsewhere   ,  the  मिल्क  candy became known as leche quemada ,  जलेबी   de   leche  , etc .
It has cousins in the  अनेक  Indian  milk-based   मिठाई  like pera and the  मिल्क   फ़ज  burfi , and in  the  opera fudge of  the  U.S. Cajeta is eaten on  इसके  own as a  मीठी  , as  a   स्प्रेड   or  filling for breads and pastries ,  ऐसे  as churros , and  as  a topping for ice cream .
निश्चित  liquors are added to  खास  recipes called cajeta  envinada  .
in   जोड   ,   cajeta  envinada  especial  is enriched  साथ   किशमिश  , almonds ,  pecans   or   nuts   .
Often it is  प्रयुक्त  as a topping for crêpes , as  a  sweet sauce boiled and  softened  down with milk to  soak  the crepes  ,  resulting  in  a  स्वादिष्ट  dessert .
in  Mexico many brands make  cajeta  but the most common  ब्रांड  is  coronado  .
it   is  also  बहुत  common to place cajeta  between   obleas  to make  a  traditional  मैक्सिकन  dessert .
प्रिंस  William , Duke of  कैम्ब्रिज  ( William  आर्थर   फिलिप   लुई  ; born 21 June 1982 ) , is  the  elder  बेटे  of Charles ,  प्रिंस   of  Wales , and  डायना  , Princess of Wales  ,  and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II  और   प्रिंस   फिलिप   ,  Duke of  एडिनबर्ग  .
He is second in  the  line  of  succession ,  पीछे  his father  ,   to   the  thrones  of  sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth  realms   :  the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia  ,  New Zealand , Jamaica  ,  Barbados  ,   the  Bahamas ,  हरा  ,  पापुआ  New Guinea ,  the   सुलेमान   आइलैंड्स   ,  Tuvalu , Saint Lucia  ,   संत  Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize  ,  Antigua  और   बारबूडा  , and  संत  Kitts and  नेविस   .
Prince William was educated at  चार   स्कूलों  in the United  किंगडम  and obtained  a   उपाधि  from  the  University  of  St Andrews .
He spent parts of a gap year in  चिली  , Belize  ,  Tanzania  ,  and Kenya where he has lived and  holidayed   अनेक   टाइम्स  .
Prince  विलियम  has also taken Kiswahili  अध्ययन  at universities in Kenya and  तंजानिया  .
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant  in   the  Blues  और   रॉयल्स  Regiment of the  household  Cavalry —serving  साथ   उसके   bhai  Prince Harry —and  ,  two  सालो   बाद   ,  earned his wings by completing pilot training at  royal   एयर   फ़ोर्स  College Cranwell  .
In 2009 , he  transferred  to the Royal  एयर   फ़ोर्स   ,  was promoted to Flight Lieutenant and  underwent   हेलीकाप्टर  flying  प्रशिक्षण   in   अनुक्रम  to  become  a  full-time  pilot with  the  Search  और  Rescue  फ़ोर्स  .
In 2010 , he completed  उसके   सामान्य  and special-to-type helicopter training and  गई  on to  raf   घाटी   on   no  . 22 Squadron  performing   co-pilot  duties on  फलक  a Sea King search and rescue helicopter  .
Prince William married  उसके   longtime  girlfriend  ,  Catherine  मिडलटन  , on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey .
घंटों   prior  to his wedding  ,  Prince William  थी   निर्मित   ड्यूक   of  Cambridge , Earl of Strathearn  ,   और  Baron Carrickfergus .
Mali is  a  multilingual  देश  .
The languages  बोला   वहीँ  reflect ancient settlement patterns  ,  migrations , and  इसके  long history .
Ethnologue counts  50   भाषाएं   .
Of  ये  , French  is  the official language  और  Bambara  is  the most widely spoken  .
Altogether 13  of   the  indigenous  भाषाएं  of  माली  have  the   विधिक   औकात  of  नेशनल  language  .
Sign in French , at  a  monument in Bamako  .
{  {  Infobox Holiday
Chinese  नई  Year
9  – 12 February ( Vietnam  )
Rogers Building , the headquarters of  रोजर्स   संचार
Rogers Communications Inc. is a diversified public Canadian communications and  मीडिया  company  .
It is  विशेषकर  in  the  field  of  wireless  संचार  , cable  टेलीविज़न  , telephone , and Internet connectivity  साथ   significant  additional  दूरसंचार   और   द्रव्यमान   मीडिया   एसेट   .
The company is headquartered in the Rogers Building in  टोरंटो  ,  ओंटारियो  .
the   कम्पनी  claims the heritage of the Rogers  वैक्यूम   ट्यूब   कम्पनी  , founded in  1925   by  Edward  रोजर्स   ,  which started the  cfrb  radio station  in  Toronto ,  जिससे  was later acquired by outside interests .
The present enterprise dates to  1960  , when  रोजर्स  ' son , Ted  रोजर्स   ,  founded  रोजर्स  Radio Broadcasting Ltd  .
That company  acquired  CHFI  कि  year ,  as  well as  aldred-rogers   प्रसारण  , a  साझेदारी  with Joel Aldred  जिससे   helped  launch CFTO in  1961  .
Rogers later  खरीदा   आउट  Aldred and  प्रारंभ  the  वर्तमान  cable and wireless operations , known  as  Rogers Cablesystems Ltd .
The chief competitor  to   the   कम्पनी   is   घंटी  Canada ,  जिससे  has a  similarly   extensive  portfolio of  रेडियो  and television media  एसेट  , as well as  बेतार  ,  टेलीविज़न   वितरण  , and telephone  सेवाएं  , particularly in Eastern and  सेंट्रल  Canada  ;   the  two companies  हैं  often  देखी  as  having   a  duopoly on communications services in their  regions  .
However  ,  the  कम्पनी  also competes nationally with Telus for wireless services , and primarily  indirectly  with  शॉ  Communications for  टेलीविज़न  service .
The  कम्पनी  also  competes  with a number  of   अन्य   मीडिया  companies in the  प्रसारण   उद्योग  .
The Internet  is   a   वैश्विक   प्रणाली  of interconnected  कंप्यूटर   संजाल  that use the  मानक  Internet protocol suite  (  TCP/IP ) to serve billions of users worldwide .
It is a  संजाल   of  networks that consists  of   लाखो   of   निजी  ,  पब्लिक  , academic , business , and government networks , of  लोकल  to global scope  ,  that  हैं   linked  by  a  broad array  of   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक   ,  wireless and optical networking  technologies  .
The Internet carries an extensive range  of   सूचना   संसाधन  and  सेवाएं   ,  such  as  the  inter-linked  hypertext documents of the  संसार  Wide Web ( WWW ) and the infrastructure to support email .
Most traditional communications  मीडिया  including  टेलीफोन  , music  ,  film  ,   और  television  हैं  being  reshaped  or redefined by the Internet  ,  giving birth  to  new services such as voice  over  Internet Protocol  (  VoIP )  और  Internet Protocol television  (   iptv   )   .
समाचारपत्र  , book and other print publishing are adapting to Web site  प्रौद्योगिकी  ,  or   हैं   reshaped  into blogging and web feeds .
the   अंतरजाल  has enabled and accelerated  नई  forms  of  human interactions through instant messaging , Internet forums ,  और   सोशल  networking .
Online  खरीदारी  has boomed both for major  खुदरा  outlets and small artisans and traders  .
business-to-business  and  वित्तीय  services on the Internet affect supply chains  आरपार  entire industries  .
the   origins   of   the  Internet  पहुँचें  back to  शोध  commissioned by  the  United  राज्य  government  in  the  1960s  to  निर्माण  robust ,  fault-tolerant   संचार  via  कंप्यूटर   संजाल  .
The funding of a new U.S.  रीढ़  by the National  विज्ञान  Foundation in the 1980s ,  as   खूब   as  private  funding  for  अन्य  commercial backbones , led to  विश्वव्यापी   भागीदारी  in the development of  नई   नेटवर्किंग   technologies  , and  the  merger of many networks .
the  commercialization  of   कया  was by  the  1990s an international  संजाल  resulted in its popularization  और   incorporation  into virtually every  पहलू  of modern human  जीवन  .
,  अधिक   than  2.4 billion  people—over   a  third  of  the world 's  इंसान   जनसांख्यिकी  —have used the  सेवाएं  of  the  Internet  ;  approximately  100  times more  लोगों  than were  using   it   in  1995  ,  when it was mostly used  by  tech-savvy middle  और  upper class people in the United  राज्य  and several other countries  .
The  अंतरजाल  has no centralized governance in either technological implementation  or   नीतियों  for access  और  usage ; each constituent  संजाल  sets its  अपना  policies .
Only the overreaching  परिभाषाएं  of  the  two principal  नाम  spaces  in   the   अंतरजाल  , the Internet Protocol address space and  the   डोमेन  Name  प्रणाली   ,  are directed by  a  maintainer organization , the Internet  निगम   लिये  Assigned  names  and Numbers  (   icann   )  .
The technical underpinning  और   मानकीकरण  of the core  प्रोटोकॉल  ( IPv4 and IPv6 ) is  an   कार्यकलाप  of  the  Internet  अभियान्त्रिकी  Task  फ़ोर्स  ( IETF ) , a  non-profit  organization  of  loosely  संबद्ध   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  participants that  anyone   may  associate  साथ  by contributing technical expertise  .
The 2006  शीत  Olympics , officially known  as  the XX Olympic Winter Games , was a winter multi-sport event which was  मनाये  in Turin ,  इटली  from February 10 , 2006  ,   through  February 26 , 2006 .
This marked the  दूसरी  time  इटली  hosted the Olympic Winter Games , the first  होने  the  सात  Olympic  शीत  Games  in   cortina  d'Ampezzo  in   1956  .
Italy also hosted  the  Games of the  xvii  Olympiad  in  Rome in 1960 .
Turin  थी  selected as the host city  लिये   the  2006  खेल  in 1999 .
The  आधिकारिक  logo displayed  the  name `` Torino  ''  , the Italian  नाम   of  the  नगर  ; the city is known  as  ``  टोरीनो  ''  in  both English and  the  local traditional language , Piedmontese .
The Olympic  mascots  of  टोरिनो   2006   यहूद  Neve ( `` snow '' in Italian  )  , a female  स्नोबॉल  , and  gliz   ,   a  male ice cube  .
the   आधिकारिक  motto of  the  XX Olympic Winter Games was `` Passion  जीवनदान  here  ''  .
``   सहायता  ! '' is  a  song by the Beatles that served as the title song for both the  1965   फिल्मी   और  its  साउंडट्रैक  album .
It  थी  also released as a single , and was  क्रमांक  one  लिये   तीन  weeks in both  the   संयुक्त  States and the United Kingdom .
`` Help ! ''  थी  written  primarily  by  जॉन  Lennon , but credited to  lennon–mccartney  .
दौरान   an  interview with Playboy in  1984  ,  पॉल  McCartney stated that the title  थी  `` out of desperation '' .
पोस्टर  for  the  2005  प्रदर्शनी
Siegfried Bing  (  26  फ़रवरी  1838  –   6  September  1905   )   ,   जो   प्रायः   दिया  his name as S. Bing , and was thus  प्रायः   संदर्भित   erroneously  as ``  सैमुएल   bing  ''  (  Samuel  ओटो   bing  , 1850–1905  ,  was  उसके   bhai  ) was a German art dealer  जो   जिया  in Paris  as  an  वयस्क  ,  और   जो   helped   introduce   जापानी   आर्ट  and artworks to the  वेस्ट  and  थी   a   फ़ैक्टर  in the development  of  the Art  देवानंद   स्टाइल  during the  लेट  nineteenth century .
तुलना  of male and female life expectancy at birth for countries  और  territories  as  defined in  the  2011 CIA  factbook   ,  with  चयनित  bubbles labelled .
The dotted line  corresponds  to equal female and male life  प्रत्याशा  .
The apparent 3D volumes  of  the bubbles are  linearly  proportional  to  their population .
इस  is  a   सूची   of  countries  by  life expectancy  at  birth .
Kennewick is a city in Benton County  in  the southeastern part of  the  U.S. state of Washington  ,  near  the  Hanford  नाभिकीय   साईट   .
It  is  the most  populous   of  the three  शहरों  collectively referred to as the Tri-Cities (  the  others being  pasco   और  Richland  )  .
Kennewick is located along the  दक्षिणपश्चिम  bank  of  the Columbia River ,  विपरीत   pasco  and  बस  south of the confluence  of  the Columbia and Yakima  नदियाँ  .
The population was 73,917 at the 2010 census .
April  1  , 2012 estimates from  the  Washington  राज्य   दफ्तर  of Financial Management  put  the city  's  population at 75,160  .
the   निकटतम  commercial  विमानक्षेत्र   is  the Tri-Cities  विमानक्षेत्र   in  Pasco ,  a  regional  वाणिज्यिक  and private airport .
Forbes magazine named  kennewick  the #  2   क्षेत्रफल   in  the  संयुक्त  States  लिये  job growth , while nearby Yakima was named # 1 .
The article cites the number of  वैज्ञानिकों  employed  by  the  प्रशांत   उत्तरपश्चिम  National Laboratory and  क्षेत्रफल  farmland  लिये   इस  outlook .
The prothrombin time ( PT ) and its derived measures  of  prothrombin  अनुपात   (  PR )  और  international  सामान्यीकृत  ratio ( INR ) are measures of the  extrinsic  pathway  of  coagulation .
This  परीक्षण  is  भी  called `` ProTime INR '' and `` PT/INR '' .
They are  प्रयुक्त   to   determine   the   clotting   tendency  of blood ,  in   the  measure of warfarin dosage ,  जिगर  damage ,  और   विटामिन  K status .
PT  उपायों  factors I  (  fibrinogen ) , II (  prothrombin   )  ,  v  , VII , and X .
It is  प्रयुक्त  in conjunction with  the  activated  आंशिक   thromboplastin   समय  (  aptt  ) which  उपायों   the  intrinsic  pathway  .
`` I 'm in the Mood for Love '' is  a  popular song .
The music was written by Jimmy McHugh ,  the  lyrics  by  Dorothy  फ़ील्ड  .
The song  थी  published  in   1935   .
It  थी  introduced by  frances  Langford  in  the  फिल्म   प्रत्येक  Night at  आठ  released that  साल   .
The  सोंग  was featured  in   the  1936  हमारी  Gang (  छोटी  Rascals )  छोटी  ,  the   पिंच  Singer ,  सुंग  by  कार्ल  `` Alfalfa '' Switzer , and in the 1936 film Palm Springs  .
it  is  प्रायः  known to  be   switzer  's signature  सोंग   .
James  मूडी  's saxophone solo on a  1952  recording of this song inspired  the  song `` Moody 's  मनोदशा   लिये  Love `` .
Hip hop artist Prince Paul sampled the song as the basis for the track `` Mood for Love  ''   on  his album A  प्रिंस  Among Thieves  (  1999 ) , with  डॉन  Newkirk singing its original lyrics .
the   सोंग  's title  प्रेरित  the English title of  वोंग  Kar  wai  's movie In the  मनोदशा  for Love .
Cross-cultural psychology is the scientific study of human behavior and mental  प्रक्रियाओं  , including both their variability and invariance  ,   अंतर्गत  diverse cultural  शर्तें  .
Through  expanding  research  methodologies  to recognize cultural  variance  in  बर्ताव  , language  ,  and meaning  it  seeks to extend  और   develop  psychology .
Since psychology as an academic discipline  थी  developed largely  in   उत्तर  America , some psychologists  became  concerned that constructs accepted as universal were not as invariant as previously assumed ,  विशेषकर  since many attempts to replicate notable experiments in other  संस्कृतियों  had varying  कामयाबी  .
Since  वहीँ  are  सवाल  as to whether theories dealing with central themes ,  ऐसे  as affect , cognition  ,  conceptions  of  the self , and issues  ऐसे   as   psychopathology  ,  चिंता  , and depression , may lack external validity when `` exported '' to  अन्य  cultural  contexts  , cross-cultural  मनोविज्ञान   re-examines  them using  methodologies  designed to  फ़ैक्टर  in cultural  मतभेद   so  as to account for  सांस्कृतिक  variance .
Although some critics  have  pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural psychological research and claim that  गंभीर  shortcomings in the theoretical  और  methodological bases used impede rather than help the  वैज्ञानिक  search  लिये   सार्वभौमिक   सिद्धान्त  in psychology ,  cross-cultural  psychologists  हैं  turning  अधिक  to the study  of  how differences ( variance ) occur ,  बल्कि   than  searching for universals in the style of physics  or  chemistry .
In 1972 the International Association of Cross-Cultural Psychology (  iaccp  )  थी   स्थापित   .
This  शाखा  of  मनोविज्ञान  has  जारी  to expand as there  रै  been an  increasing  popularity of incorporating culture  और   विविधता  into studies  .
Cross-cultural psychology  is  differentiated from Cultural psychology  .
The  latter  is the branch  of  psychology that holds that human behavior is  significantly  influenced  by  cultural differences , meaning that psychological phenomena can only  be  compared with  प्रत्येक  other across  संस्कृतियों   to   a  very  सीमित  extent  .
in  contrast , cross-cultural psychology includes a search  लिये  possible  universals  in behavior  और   दिमागी   प्रक्रियाओं  .
Walter  J.  Lonner ,  लिखने  for  नजर   on  Psi Chi , has stated  कि  `` cross-cultural psychology can  be  thought  of  as a  प्रकार  research methodology , rather  than  an entirely separate field within psychology ( 2000 )  .  ''
`` Judas  ''  is  a   सोंग   by  American recording artist Lady Gaga , from her second studio album  born   इस   रास्ता   (  2011 )  .
It was released  by  Interscope Records on April 15 , 2011 , four days ahead  of  its scheduled release .
लिखा  and produced by  महिला  Gaga  और  RedOne ,  ``  Judas '' is  a  dance and electro  हाउस  song  परिचय  a  स्त्री   in  love with  a   man  who  गद्दारी  her  .
It  embodies  the incidents that have haunted Gaga  in   the  past  ,   और   इसके  core  अर्थ   refers  to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape  .
गागा  has further  समझाया  that  the  song was  भी  about  honoring  one 's  भीतरी  darkness in order to bring oneself  into   the  light .
The  कलाकृति   लिये   the  single  थी  designed by Gaga in Microsoft  शब्द  .
In spite of a  polarizing  impact on  अनेक  religious groups ,  the  song was  generally  well  प्राप्त  by  आलोचकों   ,  who  likened  the song to `` Bad Romance ``  साथ  some noting it should have been the album  's  lead single  .
The song has a similar  ध्वनि   to  Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks , including  ``  Poker Face `` , `` LoveGame `` ,  ``  Bad  रोमांस  '' ,  और  `` Alejandro  ``  .
It contains three distinct hooks and a  हाउस  -influenced  ब्रेक   bas  .
Gaga explained that the lines spoken  दौरान  the breakdown  बात  about her as  परे  redemption  ,   regarding   the   परंपरागत  views  of  what a woman should be  .
`` Judas ''  initially   था   a   दमदार  sales opening , but was less successful commercially in  तुलना  to Gaga 's previous  singles  .
The song  पहुँचे   the  top  टेन  of the  चार्ट  in most  प्रमुख  music  बाज़ार  , and also reached the top of the charts  in  South Korea .
a  music video for the song was  फिल्माया   in  April  2011  ,  co-directed  by  गागा  and Laurieann Gibson  और   co-starring  Norman Reedus  .
it  has a Biblical storyline  जहाँ  Reedus played Judas  इस्कैरियट  and Gaga played Mary Magdalene .
The  वीडियो  portrays them as modern day missionaries going to Jerusalem  .
it   शामिल  the Biblical story of  यहूदा   betraying  Jesus , and ended  साथ   गागा   as   magdalene  getting  stoned  to death .
Before  इसके   रिलीज  ,  the  Catholic League  condemned  Gaga for the alleged  उपयोग   of  religious  imagery   और  her role in the video .
however  , critics generally praised the video  ,   नहीं  finding any  अप्रिय   सामग्री  .
The video was nominated for two awards at the 2011 MTV Video  म्यूज़िक  Awards .
गागा  has performed  ``  Judas  ''  on a number of television shows ,  सहित  The Graham Norton Show  ,   शनिवार   रात्रि  Live , Good  morning  Americas ``  गर्मियाँ   कॉन्सर्ट  Series  ''  , the French X Factor  as  well as on The Ellen DeGeneres  दिखाएँ   .
h.264/mpeg-4  Part  10   or  AVC  (  Advanced  वीडियो   कोडिंग  ) is a standard  लिये  video compression , and is currently one  of  the most commonly used  स्वरुप   लिये  the  रिकॉर्डिंग  , compression , and  वितरण  of high definition video  .
The final drafting work on the  पहला  version  of  the standard was  समाप्त  in May  2003  .
h.264/mpeg-4  AVC is  a  block-oriented motion-compensation -based codec standard developed  by  the ITU-T Video  कोडिंग  Experts  समूह  ( VCEG )  साथ  with the ISO/IEC JTC1 Moving  चित्र  Experts  समूह  (  एमपीईजी  )  .
The  प्रोजेक्ट  partnership  प्रयत्न  is known  as   the   संयुक्त  Video  टोली  (  jvt   )  .
the  ITU-T  h.264   मानक  and  the  ISO/IEC  mpeg-4  AVC standard  (   formally  , ISO/IEC 14496-10 – MPEG-4 Part  10  ,  उन्नत  Video Coding  )   हैं  jointly  कायम   so  that they have identical technical  सामग्री  .
h.264  is perhaps best known as  होने  one  of  the codec  मानकों  for Blu-ray Discs ; all Blu-ray  डिस्क  players must be able to  डिकोड  H.264  .
it  is also widely used by streaming internet sources , such as videos from  vimeo  , YouTube  ,  and  the   itunes  Store  ,  web software such as  the   adobe  Flash Player and  microsoft  Silverlight  ,   और  also various  hdtv  broadcasts over  स्थलीय  ( ATSC , ISDB-T ,  dvb-t   or  DVB-T2  )   ,  cable  (  DVB-C )  और  satellite (  dvb-s  and DVB-S2 ) .
non-binding  arbitration is  a   प्रकार  of arbitration in which the arbitrator  makes  a determination  of   the  rights of  the  parties  to  the dispute  ,   लकिन   इस   determination   is  not binding upon them , and  no  enforceable  मध्यस्थता  award is issued  .
The  ``   पुरस्कार  '' is in  प्रभाव   an   सलाहकार  opinion  of  the  arbitrator   's   दृश्य  of the respective merits of the parties  मामले   .
non-binding   मध्यस्थता  is  प्रयुक्त  in  कनेक्शन  with attempts to reach  a  negotiated settlement .
the  role of an  arbitrator  in non-binding arbitration is  ,  on  the  surface , similar to that of  a   मध्यस्थ   in   a  mediation .
However , the  प्रिंसिपल  distinction  is  that whereas  a  mediator will try to  सहायता   the  parties find a  मध्य  ground  to  compromise  at  , the arbitrator remains  totally  removed from the  उपनिवेश  process  और  will only  दे  a determination of liability  और  , if appropriate , an indication of  the  quantum  of  damages payable .
Subsequent to  a  non-binding  मध्यस्थता  ,  the   पार्टियों   remain  free to pursue their claims either through the courts  ,   or   by  way of a binding arbitration ,  हालांकि   in  practice a settlement  is  the most common  निष्कर्ष  .
The  पुरस्कार  and reasoning  in  a non-binding  मध्यस्थता  is  लगभग   invariably   inadmissible   in  any  subsequent  action in the courts  or  in another arbitration tribunal .
Non-binding  मध्यस्थता  is utilised mostly  in  the United States and Canada  .
It is largely unknown in  यूरोपीय   ,  although in the United  किंगडम   वहीँ   is  a practice of parties  जो  are seeking a  उपनिवेश  to jointly instruct  a  Queen 's Counsel for an opinion on  the   merits  and likely quantum  of  a claim  ,  and then  to  negotiate on the basis of the views  expressed   in  that  राय   .
Augustine  ज्वालामुखी  is a  लावा   गुम्बद  Complex on  अगस्टाइन  Island in  southwestern  Cook Inlet in the Kenai Peninsula  बरो  of southcentral coastal Alaska ,  दक्षिणपश्चिम  of  anchorage  .
the  Alaska Volcano Observatory currently rates Mount  अगस्टाइन   as  Level of Concern  रंग  Code Green for aviation and the  ज्वालामुखी  Alert Level is  at   सामान्य   .
अगस्टाइन   द्वीप  has  a  land area of , while West  द्वीप   ,  just off Augustine 's western shores , has .
The  द्वीप  is made  up  mainly of past eruption deposits .
Scientists have  महरूम  able to  discern  that past dome collapse  रै  resulted  in   विशाल  avalanches  .
A map  of  Belize .
The country of Belize  रै  roughly 386  km  of coastline , and  रै   अनेक   मूँगा  reefs  ,  cays ,  और  islands  in  the  caribbean  Sea  .
Most  of   ये   रूप   the  Belize Barrier  रीफ  ,  the   longest   in  the western  गोलार्ध  stemming approximately .
The reef and its islands have  महरूम  a  युनेस्को  World  विरासत  Site since  1996  .
The following  is   a   सूची   of   oceanic  islands  of  Belize , arranged according  to  region  लकिन  all of which are in  the  Caribbean  समुद्र  .
Most of the islands  variate  in  स्पेलिंग  between `` cay '' and  ``   caye   ''  , and  भी  use the  स्पेनी  `` cayo '' .
River islands  have  not been listed .
ड्राइव   अक्षर  Access ( DLA  )  is a discontinued commercial  पैकेट  writing  अनुप्रयोग  for the Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ   ऑपरेटिंग   प्रणाली  that allows optical  डिस्क  data storage devices to  be   प्रयुक्त  in a manner  समान  to floppy disks  .
DLA  is   a  packet  लिखने   प्रौद्योगिकी  for CD  और  DVD media that uses  the  UDF  संचिका  system .
dla  is not compatible  साथ   खिड़कियाँ   विस्टा  and newer , although  a  patch  exists  to  फिक्स  this issue  अंतर्गत  Windows Vista .
Roxio  बर्न   थी  introduced on  अप्रैल   30  , 2009  .
As a replacement for DLA ,  it  remedies compatibility  मुद्दे  Internet Explorer  8   .
अल्फा   रेक्स  Emmanuel Humbard ( August  13  , 1919  –  September 21 , 2007 )  थी  a  well-known   अमरीकी   टेलीविज़न  evangelist whose Cathedral of Tomorrow show was shown on over 600  स्टेशन  at the peak of its popularity .
Limitless is a 2011 American  थ्रिलर  film directed by Neil Burger  और  starring Bradley  कूपर   ,   abbie  Cornish  ,  and  रॉबर्ट  De Niro .
It is  आधारित  on the 2001  अनोखा  The  अंधेरा  Fields by  एलन  Glynn  साथ  the  पटकथा  by  लेस्ली  Dixon .
अलास्का   (   )  is a  राज्य  in  the  United States , situated  in   the  northwest extremity  of  the  उत्तर   अमरीकी   महाद्वीप  , with  the   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  boundary  साथ  Canada to  the  east  ,  the  आर्कटिक  Ocean  to   the  north , and the Pacific  समंदर  to  the  west and  दक्षिण  ,  साथ  Russia  further   वेस्ट  across  the  Bering Strait  .
अलास्का  is the largest state in the United  राज्य   by   क्षेत्रफल  , the 4th least  populous   और   the  least densely populated of the 50 United States .
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449  निवासियों  live within the  anchorage  metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल   .
अलास्का  's economy is dominated by the oil  ,  natural gas , and fishing industries ;  it  has these resources  in  abundance .
Alaska was purchased from Russia  on   कूच   30   ,  1867 , for $ 7.2  लाख   (  $ adjusted  लिये  inflation  )  at  लगभग   दो   सेंट  per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The  जमीन   गई  through several administrative changes before becoming an  व्यवस्थित  ( or incorporated  )  territory on  may  11 , 1912  ,  and the 49th state of  the  U.S.  on   जनवरी  3 , 1959 .
the   नाम  `` Alaska  ''  ( Аляска  )   थी  already introduced in the Russian colonial period  ,  when it was used only for  the  peninsula  और   is  derived from the  aleut  alaxsxaq ,  अर्थ  ``  the  mainland ''  or  ,  अधिक  literally  ,   ``  the object towards  जिससे  the action of  the   समुद्र  is  निर्देशित  ''  .
It  is  also known  as  Alyeska  ,  the  ``  great land '' ,  an   aleut  word derived  इससे   the  same  रूट   .
Nelson  मंडेला  Metropolitan University ( NMMU  )   is   a  South  अफ़्रीकी  tertiary  शिक्षा   संस्था   साथ   इसके  main administration in the coastal city of  बंदरगाहों  Elizabeth  .
A  विलय   of  three institutions  संस्थापित  NMMU in January 2005 but  इसके  history  तिथियाँ  back to 1882  साथ  the foundation of  बंदरगाहों  Elizabeth  आर्ट  School .
the   विश्वविद्यालयों  draws international  विद्यार्थी   इससे  all over  the  world .
There are over 3000 international students and include  विद्यार्थी  from  the  United States  ,   फ़्रांस  , China , Germany ,  बेल्जियम  , Denmark , Finland , Netherlands , Norway ,  स्वीडन  , United  किंगडम   और  many  अन्य  countries .
NMMU is a comprehensive university offering professional and vocational training  .
The University has six campuses -  पाँच  in Port  एलिज़ाबेथ  and one in  जार्ज   .
the  main campus is the  दक्षिण  Campus .
Students at NMMU  can  study  towards   diplomas  and degrees up  to  and including doctoral  स्तर  qualifications  .
A number of courses include workplace experience as part  of  the curriculum .
covergirl  is an American  कॉस्मेटिक्स  brand founded  in  Maryland , by the  noxzema  Chemical Company ( later called Noxell  )  and  acquired   by   procter  & Gamble in 1989 .
The Noxell Company advertised this cosmetics line by allowing ``  कवर  girls  ''  , fashion  मॉडल  who appear on the  सामने  cover of  महिलाओं  's magazines  ,  to wear its products .
CoverGirl makes up for  कमी  of direct individual customer  सेवा  by providing a wide variety  of  cosmetics available at reasonable prices .
on  the Origin  of  Species , published  on   24   नवम्बर  1859 , is a work of  वैज्ञानिक  literature  by  Charles  डार्विन  which is considered  to  be the  न्यास  of evolutionary biology .
इसके  full title was On  the  Origin of Species by Means  of  Natural Selection , or  the  Preservation of  favoured  Races  in  the Struggle for  जीवन  .
For the sixth edition  of  1872  ,  the  छोटी  title was changed to  the   उत्पत्ति  of  प्रजाति  .
Darwin 's  किताब   introduced   the  scientific theory  कि  populations evolve  over  the  कोर्स  of generations  through   a   प्रक्रम   of   प्राकृतिक  selection .
It presented a  देह  of  प्रमाण  that the diversity  of  life arose by common descent through a branching pattern  of   एवोल्यूशन  .
Darwin  शामिल  evidence that he had gathered on the Beagle  expedition   in  the  1830s  and his subsequent findings  इससे  research , correspondence  ,  and experimentation .
विभिन्न  evolutionary ideas had already  महरूम   प्रस्तावित  to explain  नई  findings in biology .
वहीँ  was growing support for such ideas among dissident  anatomists  and the general  पब्लिक   ,  but during the  पहला  half of the 19th century  the   अंग्रेज़ी  scientific establishment  थी   closely  tied  to  the Church  of   इंग्लैण्ड  , while science  थी   भाग   of  natural theology .
विचार  about the transmutation of species were  विवादास्पद  as they conflicted  साथ  the  मान्यताओं   कि   प्रजाति  were  अपरिवर्तनशील  parts of  a   designed  hierarchy  और  that humans were unique , unrelated to other animals .
The  राजनैतिक  and  theological  implications were  पडती  debated ,  लकिन  transmutation was not accepted  by  the scientific mainstream .
The book was written for non-specialist  पाठक   और  attracted  फैली  interest upon its  प्रकाशन   .
As Darwin  थी  an  प्रतिष्ठित   वैज्ञानिक  , his findings were taken seriously  और  the  प्रमाण   he   प्रस्तुत   उत्पन्न  scientific , philosophical ,  और  religious discussion .
the  debate  over  the book contributed to the campaign  by  T.H .  हक्स्ले  and his fellow members of the  x  Club  to  secularise  विज्ञान  by promoting scientific naturalism .
Within  दो  decades there was  फैली   वैज्ञानिक  agreement  कि  evolution ,  साथ  a  branching   पैटर्न  of  आम  descent ,  था  occurred , but scientists were slow to give natural selection the significance  कि  Darwin  विचार  appropriate .
दौरान   the  `` eclipse of Darwinism `` from the  1880s  to the 1930s  ,  various other mechanisms  of   एवोल्यूशन   यहूद  given  अधिक  credit .
With the development  of  the modern  विकासवादी  synthesis in  the   1930s   और   1940s  , Darwin  's   अवधारणा   of   विकासवादी   अनुकूलन  through natural  चयन  became  सेंट्रल  to modern  विकासवादी   सिद्धान्त  , now the unifying concept of  the  life sciences .
चार्ल्स  Dillon `` Casey  ''  Stengel  (  ; July  30   ,  1890  –  September 29 , 1975 )  ,  nicknamed  ``  The Old  perfessor   ''  ,  थी   an  American  प्रमुख  League Baseball  outfielder  and manager .
He  थी   निर्वाचित  to  the   बेसबॉल  Hall  of   कीर्ति   in  .
Stengel was born in Kansas City  ,  Missouri  ,  and originally nicknamed `` Dutch '' ,  a  common nickname  at  that time for Americans  of  German  ancestry  .
बाद   उसके   प्रमुख   लीग  career began ,  he   acquired  the nickname `` Casey  ''  , which originally came from the  आद्याक्षर  of his hometown ( `` K. C.  ''   )  , which evolved into `` Casey '' ,  बहकावे   by  the wide popularity of the poem Casey  at  the Bat .
In the 1950s  ,  sportswriters dubbed him with yet another nickname , ``  the   बूढ़ा  Professor  ''  (  or   ``   perfessor   ''   )  , for his sharp  wit   और  his  क्षमता  to talk at length on  anything  baseball -related  .
हालांकि  his baseball career spanned  a  number of teams  और  cities , he is  primarily  associated with  क्लब  in New York City .
Between  playing  and managing , he is the  तभी  man to have worn  चार  of New  यॉर्क  's major  लीग  clubs  '  uniforms .
he   थी  the first of four men ( through the  ऋतु   )  to manage  दोनो   the  New York Yankees and New  यॉर्क  Mets ;  योगी  Berra , Dallas  ग्रीन  ,  और  Joe  टोरेस  are the others .
जैसे  Torre , he  भी  managed the Braves and  the  Dodgers .
He ended his baseball career  as  the beloved manager  लिये  the then expansion New York Mets , which won over the hearts of New York partly  due  to the unique character of their veteran leader  .
June (  )  is  the  sixth month of  the   साल   in  the Julian and  gregorian   पंचांग  and one of the four months with a  लंबाई  of 30 days .
ओविड   provides  two  etymologies  for June 's  नाम  in his  कविता  concerning the months entitled the Fasti .
The  पहला  is  कि   the  month is named after the  रोमन   देवी  Juno ,  बीवी  of Jupiter and  समतुल्य  to  the  Greek goddess Hera  ;   the  second is that  the  name  आता  from the Latin word  iuniores   ,  meaning ``  younger   ones  , '' as  opposed  to maiores (  ``  elders '' ) for which the  preceding   माह  May may be named  (  Fasti VI.1–88  )   .
देखिए   :  Months in various calendars also  पुकारा  the season  of   the   जून  is the month with the longest daylight hours of  the  year in the Northern  गोलार्ध   और  the shortest daylight hours  of  the year in  the  Southern Hemisphere  .
June in the  उत्तरी   गोलार्ध   is  the  मौसमी  equivalent to December  in  the  दक्षिणी  Hemisphere and  वाइस  versa .
In  the  Northern hemisphere , the  शुरूआत  of the meteorological summer is 1 June .
In  the  Southern  गोलार्ध  , the beginning  of  the meteorological  शीत  is 1 June .
At the  प्रारंभ  of  जून  ,  the   सूर्य  rises  in  the constellation  of  Taurus  ;   at   the   समाप्त  of  जून  , the  सूर्य  rises  in  the  नक्षत्र  of Gemini  .
However , due  to  the precession  of  the equinoxes , June  begins   साथ  the sun in  the  astrological sign of Gemini , and  ends   साथ  the sun in the astrological sign of Cancer  .
जून   is  known  लिये  the large number  of   विवाह  that occur  over  the course of the  माह  .
According to  एक  etymology  ,  June is named  बाद  Juno ( Hera ) .
Juno was the  देवी  of marriage  और   a   शादीशुदा  couple 's household  ,  so some consider it good luck to be married in  इस   माह  .
According to another etymology provided  by   the  Roman  कवि   ओविड  ,  जून  is named for  the   iuniores  , latin for `` young  लोगों   ''  ( Fasti VI.88 ) and that the  माह  of May  is  named for the maiores , Latin  लिये   ``   बड़ो  '' .
In  आइसलैंड  ,  लोकगीत   says  that if you bathe  नग्न  in the morning dew on the  morning   of  June 24  ,  you  हैं  supposed to  रखना  aging at bay for longer  .
A constitution is  a   नियत  of  आधारभूत  principles or established precedents according  to  which a state or other  संगठन   is   governed  .
These rules together make up ,  i.e   .   constitute   ,  what the  एंटिटी  is  .
When these principles are written down  into  a single document or set of legal documents  ,  those documents  may   be  said to  embody  a written constitution ;  if  they are written  bas  in a single  व्यापक   दस्तावेज़   ,  it  is  said to embody a  संहिताबद्ध  constitution .
Constitutions concern different levels of organizations  ,   इससे  sovereign  राज्य  to companies  और  unincorporated associations  .
A  सन्धि  which establishes an international organization is also its constitution , in that it would define  कैसा  that organization  is  constituted .
Within states , whether  sovereign  or federated ,  a  constitution defines  the  principles  upon  which the  राज्य  is based , the procedure  in  which laws  हैं  made and  by   जिसको   .
Some  constitutions   ,   विशेषकर  codified constitutions ,  भी   अधिनियम   as  limiters of state power  ,  by establishing lines which a state  's  rulers can not cross  ,   ऐसे   as  fundamental rights .
George Washington at Constitutional  सम्मेलन  of 1787 , signing of  u.S.  Constitution .
The Constitution of India is the longest  लिखा  constitution of any  sovereign  country in the  संसार  ,  containing   448  articles  ,  12 schedules and 100  amendments   ,   साथ  117,369 words in its  अंग्रेज़ी  language  संस्करण  ,  जबकि  the United States Constitution  is   the  shortest written constitution , at 7  आलेख  and 27 amendments .
Ron Diftler ( left ) , NASA Robonaut  मैनेजर  assisting in a  robonaut  familiarization training session in the Space Environment Simulation Laboratory  at  NASA 's Johnson Space Center .
अभियान्त्रिकी   प्रबन्धन  is a  specialized   रूप  of  प्रबन्धन  that is concerned with the application  of   अभियान्त्रिकी   सिद्धान्त  to business practice  .
Engineering management is  a  career that brings  साथ   the  technological problem-solving  savvy   of   अभियान्त्रिकी   और  the organizational  ,   प्रशासनिक  , and planning abilities  of   प्रबन्धन   in   अनुक्रम   to  oversee complex enterprises  इससे   धारणा  to  पूर्णता  .
Example areas  of  engineering  हैं   उत्पाद  development , manufacturing ,  निर्माण  ,  डिज़ाइन   अभियान्त्रिकी   ,  industrial  अभियान्त्रिकी   ,  technology  ,  production  ,  or  कोई   अन्य  field  कि  employs personnel who  perform  an engineering function .
Successful engineering  प्रबंधक  typically require training and experience  in  business and  अभियान्त्रिकी  .
technically  inept managers tend to  be  deprived of  support   by  their  तकनीकी  team , and non-commercial managers tend  to  lack  वाणिज्यिक  acumen to deliver  in  a  मार्केट  economy  .
Largely  ,  engineering managers manage engineers who are driven by  non-entrepreneurial  thinking , thus  आवश्यकता   the   जरुरी  people skills  to  coach , mentor and motivate technical professionals .
Engineering  पेशेवर  joining  निर्माण   कंपनियाँ   sometimes  become engineering  प्रबंधक   by  default after  a  period of time .
They are required to  सीख  how to manage  एकबार   वे   हैं   on  the job , though this  is   प्रायः  an ineffective way to develop  managerial   abilities   .
In an insurance policy  ,  the deductible is  the  amount  of  expenses that  जरूर  be paid  आउट  of pocket  पहले  an insurer will pay any expenses  .
in  general usage ,  the  term deductible may  be   प्रयुक्त  to describe one of several types of clauses  (   देखिए   नीचे   )  that are used  by  insurance  कंपनियाँ  as a  दहलीज  for policy payments  .
Deductibles  हैं  typically used to deter the  विशाल  number of trivial claims that  a   उपभोक्ता   can   be   reasonably  expected  to  bear  the  cost of .
By  restricting  its coverage to events that are  significant  enough  to  incur  विशाल  costs ,  the  insurance firm expects to pay out  थोड़ा  smaller amounts  much  less frequently  ,  incurring much higher  बचत  .
as   a   परिणाम  ,  बीमे  premiums  हैं  typically cheaper when they involve higher deductibles .
Deductibles  हैं  normally provided as clauses in an insurance policy that  dictate   कैसा  much of an insurance-covered expense  is  borne by  the   policyholder  .
वे  are  सामान्यतः  quoted as a  फिक्स्ड  quantity and  is  a part  of  most  नीतियों   covering  losses to the  नीति  holder .
The insurer then becomes liable for claimable expenses that exceed this amount  (  subject  to  the maximum sum claimable indicated  in   the  contract )  .
Depending  on  the policy , the deductible may apply  प्रति   covered  incident , or per year  .
लिये  policies where  incidences  are not easy  to   delimit  (  लिये  example health insurance )  ,  the deductible is typically applied per year .
अनेक   deductibles   can  be set  by  the insurer based on the cause of  the   अर्जी  .
For example , a  सिंगल   आवास   बीमे   नीति  may contain  अनेक  deductible amounts  लिये  loss  or  damage  arising  from  चोरी  ,  आग  , natural calamities , evacuation etc .
There are also deductible reimbursement programs  कि  reimburse a deductible  in   the  event  of  an  स्वचालित   ,  home , boat/yacht or  स्वास्थ्य  insurance  अर्जी  .
An  चालान  or bill is a commercial  दस्तावेज़  issued by a seller to a buyer , indicating  the  products  ,   quantities  ,  और   सहमत  prices  लिये  products or services the  विक्रेता  has provided the  खरीदार  .
An  चालान  indicates the  बिक्री   लेनदेन  only .
Payment terms are  स्वतंत्र  of the invoice and are negotiated  by  the buyer and  the   विक्रेता  .
Payment  शर्तें  are usually included on  the  invoice .
The  खरीदार   could   have  already paid for the products or services  सूचीबद्ध  on  the  invoice .
खरीदार  can also have  a  maximum number of days in  जिससे   to   अदा  for  ये   goods  and is  sometimes  offered a discount if paid  पहले   the   due  date  .
In  the  rental industry , an invoice  जरूर   शामिल   a  specific reference to  the  duration of the time being billed  ,  so in addition to quantity  ,  price and discount the  invoicing  amount is  भी   आधारित  on  अवधि  .
Generally each  लकीर  of  a  rental invoice will refer to the actual hours , days , weeks ,  महीने   ,  etc. , being billed .
इससे  the point of view of a seller ,  an   चालान  is  a  sales invoice .
From  the  point of  दृश्य   of  a  खरीदार  , an invoice is  a  purchase invoice .
The  दस्तावेज़  indicates the buyer  और  seller  ,   लकिन  the term  चालान  indicates money  is  owed  or   owing  .
in  English , the context of  the  term invoice is  प्रायः  used to clarify its meaning , such as  ``  We sent them an invoice '' (  वे   owe  us money  )  or `` We received an invoice from them '' (  we  owe  उन्हें   धन   )  .
The right main bronchus ( or right  प्राथमिक   bronchus  , or right  प्रिंसिपल  bronchus ) is a  bronchus   of   the  respiratory  प्रणाली  .
It  is  wider  ,  shorter ,  और  more  लंबवत   in  direction  than   the   बाएँ   .
it  is  परिचय  2.5  cm  long  ,  and enters  the  right  फेफड़ों   nearly   विपरीत  the fifth thoracic vertebra  .
The azygos vein  arches  over it from  पीछे   ;  and the right pulmonary artery lies  at   पहला   नीचे   और  then in front of  it  .
About 2 cm from its commencement it gives off a branch to  the  upper  पालि  of  the  right lung .
This  is  termed  the  eparterial branch  of  the bronchus , because it arises  ऊपर  the right pulmonary artery .
the  bronchus now passes below the artery  ,  and  is  known as  the  hyparterial branch ; it divides  into  two branches for the middle  और   निम्नतर  lobes .
if  a foreign body  in  the airway passes  through   the  trachea  ,   it  will most likely enter the right main  bronchus  instead of the  बाएँ  , due  to  the straighter alignment of the  सही   bronchus  to  the   श्वासनली  .
Squash is a  racquet  sport played by two  (   singles   )  or  चार  players  (  doubles  )   in  a four-walled court  साथ   a  small , hollow  रबर  ball .
The players must alternate in striking the  बॉल   साथ  their  racquet  and hit  the   बॉल  onto the playable surfaces  of   the  four walls of the court .
The game was formerly called squash racquets ,  a   सन्दर्भ   to   the  `` squashable '' soft ball used in  the   खेल   (   compared  with the fatter ball  प्रयुक्त   in  its parent game racquets  or  rackets ) .
स्क्वैश   is  recognized by the IOC and  समर्थक  are lobbying for its  incorporation  in a future  ओलम्पिक  program .
In  2003  ,  फोर्ब्स  rated  स्क्वैश  as  the   क्रमांक  one healthiest sport to  खेल   .
Residual oil is  आयल   मिला  in  कम   एकाग्रता   naturally   or  in  बेहाल  oil fields .
Often mixed with water , it can not be  बरामद  by conventional techniques .
However , it can be recovered using carbon  dioxide-enhanced  oil recovery ( CO2 EOR  )  which  involves  injecting  कार्बन  dioxide  into  the well reducing viscosity and enhancing  प्रवाह  of the oil .
The technique is  नहीं   नई  but has not been used  extensively   on   अवशेष  oil zones  ,  low-grade deposits of petroleum  ऐसे  as the 38 square  मील   in  the Permian Basin of Texas leased  by  Elliott Roosevelt Jr  .
The technique  is  limited  by  availability of carbon  डाइऑक्साइड   .
It does not result in sequestration of the  कार्बन   डाइऑक्साइड   लकिन  the gas is  recycled   as  much as possible .
United  राज्य   reserves  of  अवशेष   आयल  are  अनुमानित  to be 100 billion barrels  .
Artist 's rendering of  the  fire  ,  by  जॉन  R. Chapin , originally  मुद्रित  in Harper  's  Weekly ; the view  चेहरों  northeast across the Randolph  गली  Bridge .
The Great Chicago Fire  थी  a conflagration that  burned   इससे  Sunday , October 8 , to  जल्दी   मंगलवार   ,  October  10  , 1871 , killing hundreds and  destroying  about  in   शिकागो  ,  इलिनोइस   .
Though the  आग  was one of  the   largest  U.S.  आपदाओं  of  the  19th  सदी   ,  the  पुनर्निर्माण  that began helped develop  शिकागो  as one of the  सबसे  populous and economically important  अमरीकी  cities .
Henry VIII  (  28 June 1491  –  28 January 1547 ) was  किंग  of England from 21 April 1509  जबतक   उसके   मौत   .
he  was  रब  , and  बाद   किंग  ,  of  Ireland ,  as  well  as  continuing the  नाममात्र  claim by the English  monarchs  to  the  Kingdom of  फ़्रांस  .
Henry  थी  the  दूसरी  monarch of the Tudor  राजवंश   ,   succeeding  his father  ,  Henry VII .
besides   उसके  six marriages  ,  Henry  viii  is  ज्ञात  for  उसके  role in the  विरह  of the Church  of  England  इससे  the Roman Catholic Church  .
हेनरी  's struggles with Rome  led   to  the separation  of   the  Church  of  England from papal  प्राधिकार   ,  the Dissolution  of  the  monasteries   ,   और   उसके  own establishment as the Supreme Head  of  the  गिरिजाघर  of England  .
Yet he remained  a  believer in core Catholic theological  शिक्षाओं  ,  भी  after his excommunication from the Roman  कैथोलिक  Church .
Henry oversaw  the  legal  संघ  of England and  वेल्स  with the  कानून   in  Wales Acts 1535 and 1542  .
in  1513 , the  नई  king  अलाइड  with the Holy  रोमन  Emperor  ,  Maximillian I  ,  and invaded France in  1513  with  a  large ,  well-equipped  army , but achieved little at a considerable financial cost .
maximillian  , for  उसके  part , used the  अंग्रेज़ी  invasion  to   उसके   अपना  ends , and this prejudiced  इंग्लैण्ड  's  क्षमता  to defeat the  फ्रेंच   .
इस  foray  होता  prove the start of an  obsession  for Henry , who invaded again  in  1544  .
इस  time , Henry 's forces captured  the   महत्वपूर्ण  city of Boulogne ,  लकिन  again  the  Holy Roman Emperor  ,  Charles V  ,   समर्थित  Henry only as long  as  he needed to and England , strained  by  the  विशाल  cost  of  the war  ,   ransomed   the   नगर  back for  सलाम  .
His  contemporaries  considered  हेनरी  in his  प्रधान  to  be  an attractive , educated and accomplished king , and he has been described  as  `` one of  the  most  charismatic   शासकों   to  sit on the English throne ''  .
Besides  सत्ताधारी  with absolute power  ,   he   भी  engaged  खुद   as  an author  और  composer  .
His  ख्वाहिश  to provide England with  a  male heir – which  stemmed  partly  इससे   निजी   वैनिटी  and  partly   क्युकी  he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the Tudor  राजवंश  and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars  of  the Roses  –  led to the two  बाते   लिये   जिससे  Henry is  सबसे  remembered :  उसके  six marriages and the  अंग्रेज़ी  Reformation .
Henry became morbidly  मोटे  and  उसके  health suffered , contributing  to  his death in 1547 .
He is  अक्सर  characterised in his later life as a  lustful  ,  egotistical   ,  harsh  ,  and  असुरक्षित  king .
La Reina del  सूर   (  The Queen  of   the   दक्षिण   )  is  a  Spanish-language telenovela produced by the United States  टेलीविज़न  network Telemundo , in  संयोजन   साथ  the Antena 3 network and  rti   producciones   .
आधारित   on   a   अनोखा   of  the same name  by   स्पेनी  author Arturo  pérez-reverte  , the drama depicts  the   वृद्धि  of Teresa Mendoza ( Kate del Castillo )  ,  a young  स्त्री  from  मैक्सिको   जो  becomes the most powerful drug  trafficker  in  दक्षिणी   स्पेन   .
Patricio Wills  ,  the  अध्यक्ष  of  telemundo  Television Studios , was the executive producer .
Though La Reina del Sur was nominated for Novela of  the  Year ,  पसंदीदा  Lead Actress  ,  and Best Bad Luck Video , it  जीती  no awards  .
With a $ 10 million budget ,  la   reina  del  सूर  was  the  most expensive  telenovela  ever  उत्पादित   by  Telemundo  .
the  program 's premiere on February  28  , 2011  ,  was the network  's   उच्चतम  rated premiere for a telenovela  to  date .
the  program frequently dominated its time slot , even over English language programming on other  प्रमुख   u.S.  networks .
la  Reina del Sur completed  इसके  63  एपीसोड   चलाएं   on  Telemundo  और  its 13 episode run  on  Antena 3  simultaneously   on  May  30   ,  2011  .
the  final  एपीसोड  was the highest rated  ब्रॉडकास्ट   in  Telemundo 's 19-year history  (  4.2  लाख  viewers )  ,  and  ताल  all of the English language U.S. television networks to earn  the   क्रमांक  one  स्लॉट  in  the   18-49  adult demographic .
The  कार्यक्रम  's success spurred Telemundo to launch its first campaign to gain  the  series  an   एमी  Award nomination  .
A  one-night  special featuring several cast members aired on  may  31  ,   2011  , and marked  the  Telemundo debut of noted  latina   टेलीविज़न   व्यक्तित्व  Cristina  saralegui   .
La Reina  डेल  Sur  is  broadcast in several other markets , including  सर्बिया   ,  Colombia , Chile  ,   साइप्रस  , Nicaragua  ,   कोस्टा  Rica , Mexico  ,  Albania , Hungary , Slovenia ,  क्रोएशिया  , Romania , ( among others ) .
An example  of  rack  आरोहित  servers
A web  होस्टिंग  service  is  a  प्रकार  of  अंतरजाल  hosting  सेवा  that  allows  individuals and organizations to  मेक  their website  accessible  via the World Wide Web .
Web hosts are companies  कि  provide space on a  सर्वर  owned or leased for use by clients  ,  as well as  providing   अंतरजाल  connectivity  ,  typically in a  आंकड़ा  center .
Web hosts can also provide data  बीच   स्पेस   और  connectivity to the  अंतरजाल  for other servers located  in   उनके  data center , called colocation ,  भी  known  as  Housing  in  Latin America or France  .
The scope of  वेब  hosting  सेवाएं   varies   greatly  .
The most  मौलिक  is web page and  small-scale   संचिका  hosting , where files  can  be uploaded via File Transfer  प्रोटोकॉल  ( FTP ) or a Web interface .
The files  हैं  usually delivered to the Web `` as  is  '' or with minimal processing .
अनेक  Internet  सेवा  providers  (   isps  ) offer  इस  service free to subscribers  .
Individuals  और  organizations may  भी  obtain Web  पेज  hosting from alternative  सेवा  providers .
Personal web  साईट  hosting is  typically  free , advertisement-sponsored  ,  or inexpensive .
Business  वेब  site  होस्टिंग   प्रायः  has  a  higher expense depending  upon  the size and type of the  जालस्थल  .
Single page hosting is generally sufficient for personal web pages  .
a   जटिल   साईट  calls  लिये  a more comprehensive package  कि   provides   डेटाबेस  support and application development platforms ( e.g  .   पीएचपी  , Java  ,   माणिक्य   on  Rails  ,  ColdFusion  ,  or ASP.NET ) .
These facilities allow customers to write or install scripts for applications like  forums  and content  प्रबन्धन  .
Also  ,  Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) is  typically  used for e-commerce .
The host may also  provide  an interface  or   कंट्रोल  panel for managing the Web server and installing scripts , as well  as   अन्य   मौड्यूल  and service  अनुप्रयोग  like e-mail .
कुछ  hosts specialize  in   निश्चित  software or  सेवाएं  ( e.g  .  e-commerce  )  ,  जिससे  are commonly  प्रयुक्त  by  larger   कंपनियाँ   कि  outsource network infrastructure .
मैडेन   एनएफएल  (  ज्ञात   as   जॉन  Madden Football before 1993  )  is an American football video  खेल   श्रेणी  developed  by  Electronic Arts Tiburon for EA Sports .
the   खेल  series is named after Pro Football Hall  of   famer   जॉन  Madden , a well-known  पूर्व  Super  कटोरी  –winning  कोच  of the Oakland Raiders  और  color commentator .
The series is  the  best selling EA Sports series  .
the  games have  consistently   महरूम  a  बेहतरीन  seller ,  और  has even spawned TV  shows  where  खिलाड़ी  compete .
among  the game 's realistic features include  sophisticated  playbooks and player statistics , and voice commentary that allows players  to   सुन  the game as if it were a  रियल  TV broadcast  .
the  Madden NFL series has been  nicknamed   the  NFL 's  33rd  Franchise .
The series  थी  originally conceived by Electronic Arts  संस्थापक   ट्रिप  Hawkins , who  तब  approached  मैडेन  in 1984 for his endorsement and expertise .
due  to Madden  's  insistence that  the  game be  as  realistic  as   संभावित   ,  the first version of John Madden Football  थी  not  released   जबतक  1988 .
The second version  of   the  game was  released  in 1990 ,  साथ  annual  संस्करण  since then .
The  श्रेणी  ' name was changed  to  Madden NFL in 1993 after EA  acquired   the  rights to use NFL teams and players .
despite  Madden  's   रिटायरमेंट   as   a  broadcaster in 2009  ,  he continues to lend  उसके  name and  provide   विशेषज्ञता  for  the  game .
Cindy Lee Miller Sheehan ( born  जुलाई  10 ,  1957  )  is   an  American antiwar activist whose son  ,  U.S. Army Specialist Casey  sheehan  , was killed  by  enemy action during the Iraq War .
वो  attracted national  और  international media attention in August 2005 for her extended antiwar protest at a makeshift  शिविर  outside President  जार्ज  W. Bush 's Texas ranch —a stand  कि  drew both passionate support and angry criticism  .
sheehan  ran unsuccessfully for Congress in  2008  .
She is a vocal critic of  अध्यक्ष  Barack Obama 's foreign policy .
Her memoir , Peace  माँ  :  a  Mother 's Journey  through  Heartache  to   सक्रियता  , was published  in  2006 .
Sheehan  थी  the 2012  vice-presidential  nominee of the  सलाम  and  स्वतंत्रता  Party .
wyclef  Jeanelle Jean ( ;  ;   born  October 17  ,  1969 ) Wyclef  dumped  From Haiti  's   अध्यक्षीय  Ballot  –  TIME ,  अगस्त   21   ,  2010 .
`` Before he announced  on  August 5 that he was running  लिये   अध्यक्ष  of Haiti , Wyclef Jean was still listing  उसके  age as only 37  सालो  old  .
But after declaring himself a presidential  प्रत्याशी  , the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop star also decided to come  साफ  and confirm that he  थी  really 40 . '' is a three-time  ग्रैमी  Award -winning Haitian-American rapper  ,   singer-songwriter   ,  musician , record producer ,  और  politician .
At  आयु  nine , Jean moved to the United States with his family and has spent much of his life in the country .
He  पहला  received fame as a  सदस्य   of   the  acclaimed New  जर्सी  hip hop group the Fugees .
on  August 5 ,  2010  , Jean filed for candidacy  in   the   2010  Haitian presidential  चुनाव   ,  although  the  Electoral Commission  subsequently  ruled  उसे  ineligible  to  stand  as   he   था  not  मिले  the requirement  to  have  महरूम  resident in  हैती  for five years .
wyclef  Jean to appeal against  हैती   चुनाव  ruling – BBC News  ,  Aug 22 , 2010 .
Haiti 's electoral commission  कहा  that Mr Jean was  अयोग्य   to   स्टैंड  as the Haitian constitution requires  उम्मीदवार  to have lived in  the  country for five years prior to an election .
The  40-year-old  singer lives in the US .
Jean 's  प्रयत्न  at earthquake  राहत   ,   अत्यधिक  publicized in 2010  throughout  Haiti and the United  राज्य  ,  यहूद  channeled through his charitable  संगठन  ,  yéle  Haiti .
The charity , which performed a variety of charitable works in  हैती  between 2005  और   2010   ,  effectively closed in 2012  .
In  विधि   ,   a   set-off  is a statutory defense to  the  whole or to a  portion   of  a plaintiff 's claim  .
it  had no existence under the English  आम  law , being created by 2 Geo . II  c.   22  for the  राहत  of  insolvent  debtors , although  set-off  was  पहचाना   in  equity .
ऐसे  a defense could be pleaded  तभी  in respect  of  mutual debts of  a  definite character , and  किया  not apply  to  cases in which  क्षतिपूर्ति  were claimed  ,  nor to equitable  दावा  or demands .
by  the rules of the Supreme Court  (  O.  xix  . r.  3  ) a  प्रतिवादी   in  an action  may  set off  or   नियत   up  any  सही  or claim  by   रास्ता   of  counterclaim against  the  claims of a plaintiff , and such  set-off  or  counterclaim  has the same effect as  a  statement of claim  in  a  cross-action   .
The legal defense of set-off  (  above  )  was originally introduced to prevent the unfair  हालात  whereby  a   व्यक्ति   (  `` Party A '' ) who owed  धन  to another  (  `` Party  b   ''   )  could be sent to debtors prison , despite the fact that Party B  भी  owed money to Party A .
the  law thus allows both parties to defer payment  जबतक   उनके  respective claims have  महरूम  heard  in   अदालत  .
upon  judgment , both claims are extinguished  और  replaced  by  a  सिंगल  net  योग  owing ( e.g  .   if  Party  a  owes  पार्टी   b   100  and Party B owes Party A 105  ,  the  दो   रकम   हैं  set off  और  replaced  साथ  a single  दायित्व  of 5  इससे   पार्टी   b  to  पार्टी  A ) .
set-off   can  also be incorporated by contractual agreement so that  ,  where  a   पार्टी  defaults , the mutual  amounts  owing are automatically  नियत  off and  बुझे  .
In certain jurisdictions ( including the UK  )   ,   set-off  takes  प्लेस  automatically upon the insolvency of a company  .
This means that  ,  for  प्रत्येक  party which is  दोनो  a  creditor  and  debtor   of   the  insolvent  कम्पनी   ,   परस्पर  debts  हैं   set-off  against each other , and then either the bankrupt 's creditor can claim the balance in the bankruptcy  or   the  trustee in bankruptcy can ask for the balance remaining to be paid , depending on which side owed  the  most .
This  रै  been  criticized  as an  undeclared   सुरक्षा  interest  कि  violates  the  principle  of  pari passu .
the  alternative , where a creditor  रै  to  अदा  all its  debts  , but receive  तभी  a limited portion  of  the leftover moneys that other unsecured creditors get ,  मुद्राएँ   the   खतरे  of  'knock-on   '  insolvencies .
The right to set off is particularly important when reporting a bank 's exposures to  नियामक  authorities .
The situation where a bank has to report that it has lent a  विशाल  sum to a borrower ( and is therefore  उजागर   ,  because there is a risk that the borrower  might  default  thereby  leading to the  घाटा   of  the  बैंको  's or  इसके  depositors ' money )  is   यूँ  replaced ( where the bank has  लिया  security over  साझा   or  securities of the  borrower  ) with an exposure of the money  lent  minus  the  value of  the  security  लिया  .
Jennifer Joanna Aniston ( born February 11 , 1969 )  is  an American actress , film director ,  और  producer .
एनिस्टन  gained  विश्वव्यापी  recognition in the 1990s for portraying Rachel  ग्रीन   on  the television  sitcom   मित्रों  , a role  जिससे  earned  उसके   an  Emmy Award  ,  a Golden  ग्लोब  Award  ,  and a Screen Actors Guild  पुरस्कार  .
Aniston has also enjoyed a  कामयाब   हॉलीवुड   फिल्मी  career  .
She gained critical  acclaim  for her performances in the independent films She  's  the One (  1996  ) , Office  स्पेस   (  1999 )  ,  The Good Girl  (  2002  )  and  मित्रों  with Money ( 2006 )  .
She has had  उसके  greatest commercial  सफलताओं   साथ  the films Bruce Almighty ( 2003 ) , The Break-Up (  2006   )   ,  Marley  &   me  (  2008  ) ,  बस   go   साथ  It  (  2011 ) and Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ) .
Aniston  प्राप्त  a  स्टार   on  the  हॉलीवुड  Walk of Fame on  फ़रवरी  22 , 2012 .
a  white  बंगाल  tiger at the Houston Aquarium
( video  )
A White tiger  at   tobu  Zoo ,  in  Saitama , Japan  .
the  white tiger  is  a  recessive  mutant  of  the Bengal tiger , which was reported in the  जंगली  from time to time in Assam ,  बंगाल   ,   बिहार  and especially from  the  former State  of   रीवा  .
conventional  PCI (  पीसीआई   is  an  initialism   formed  from Peripheral Component  इंटरकनेक्ट  , part of the  पीसीआई  Local Bus standard and  प्रायः  shortened to  बस  PCI  )  is a local computer bus  लिये  attaching hardware  डिवाइस   in   a  computer .
The PCI bus supports the  कृत्यों  found  on  a  प्रोसेसर   बस  , but in a standardized format that  is   स्वतंत्र  of any particular processor .
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be  कनेक्ट  directly  to  the processor bus  ,   और   हैं  assigned addresses  in   the   प्रोसेसर  's  पता   स्पेस   .
Attached  डिवाइस   can   लो  either  the   रूप   of  an  एकीकृत  circuit fitted  onto  the motherboard  itself  ,  पुकारा  a planar  यंत्र  in the  पीसीआई  specification  ,   or  an expansion card  कि  fits into a slot .
The PCI Local  बस  was first implemented in IBM  pc  compatibles  ,  where it  विस्थापित   the  combination of ISA  प्लस  one VESA Local  बस  as the bus configuration .
It  रै   subsequently  been adopted for other computer types .
पीसीआई  and PCI-X are  होने  replaced by  पीसीआई   एक्स्प्रेस  ,  लकिन   ,  most motherboards  हैं   स्टिल  made with one or more PCI slots  ,  which are  sufficient  for many uses .
The  पीसीआई  specification  कवर  the physical size of  the  bus  (  including  the  size and  अंतरण   of   the   सर्किट  board edge electrical  सम्पर्क  ) , electrical  विशेषताएँ  , bus timing , and protocols .
the  specification can be  खरीदा  from the PCI Special Interest Group (  pci-sig   )  .
Typical PCI  ताश  used in PCs  शामिल  : network cards  ,  sound cards  ,  modems ,  अतिरिक्त  ports  ऐसे  as USB  or   सीरियल   ,  TV tuner cards  और   डिस्क  controllers .
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards , until  growing   बैंडविड्थ  requirements outgrew the capabilities of  पीसीआई  ; the preferred interface for video  ताश  became AGP  ,   और  then PCI Express .
PCI video cards remain available for use  साथ  old  pcs  without AGP or PCI Express slots  .
अनेक   डिवाइस   previously  provided on PCI  विस्तार   ताश  are now commonly  एकीकृत  onto motherboards or  उपलब्धियाँ   in   सार्वभौमिक  serial bus  और   पीसीआई  Express versions .
Caffeine is a bitter , white crystalline xanthine alkaloid that  अधिनियमों   as  a stimulant drug  .
Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the seeds , leaves  ,  and fruit  of  some plants , where  it  acts  as   a  natural pesticide  कि  paralyzes  और  kills certain insects feeding on  the  plants  ,  as well as  बढ़ाना  the reward memory of pollinators .
It is  सबसे  commonly consumed  by   इंसानो  in infusions extracted  इससे   the  seed  of  the coffee  संयंत्र  and the leaves  of  the tea  बुश   ,   as   खूब  as from  विभिन्न  foods and drinks containing products derived  इससे  the  कोला   नट   .
Other sources  शामिल  yerba maté , guarana berries  ,   guayusa  ,  और  the yaupon holly  .
In  इंसानो  , caffeine acts as  a  central nervous  प्रणाली  stimulant ,  temporarily  warding off drowsiness  और   restoring  alertness  .
It is  the   संसार   's  most widely consumed psychoactive drug , but unlike many other psychoactive substances  ,  it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the  संसार  .
Beverages containing caffeine  ,  such as  कॉफी   ,   चाय  , soft drinks  ,   और   उर्जा   पेय  , enjoy great popularity .
in  North  अमेरिका  , 90 %  of   वयस्कों   consume  caffeine  रोज़  .
भाग  of  the  reason caffeine is classified by  the   खाना  and  ड्रग  Administration as  ग्रा  ( generally recognized as safe ) is  कि  toxic  doses  ( over 10 grams ) are much higher than typically  प्रयुक्त  doses ( less than  500  milligrams  )  .
Ordinary  खपत  can have  कम   स्वास्थ्य  risks ,  भी   जब   carried   on   लिये  years  –  there may be a modest protective effect against some diseases  ,  including Parkinsons  बीमारी  ,  और  certain types of cancer .
Caffeine can  have  both  धनात्मक   और  negative  प्रभाव  on  चिंता   विकार  .
Some people experience sleep  disruption  if they consume caffeine , especially during the evening  घंटों  , but others show little disturbance  और  the effect of caffeine on  नींद  is highly  परिवर्तनीय  .
Evidence  of  a  रिस्क  to  गर्भावस्था  is equivocal , but  कुछ  authorities have  concluded  that  दूरदर्शी   सलाह  is for  गर्भवती  women to limit consumption to the  समतुल्य  of two cups of  कॉफी  per day or  कम   .
The  अमरीकी  Congress of  obstetricians  and Gynecologists ( ACOG ) concluded in  2010  that caffeine consumption is safe  up  to 200 mg per  दिन  in  गर्भवती   महिलाओं   .
Caffeine has pressor and mild  diuretic  effects  जब  administered to people  जो  are  नहीं  used  to  it  ,  but  नियमित  users develop  a  tolerance to  इस  effect  ,  and  अध्ययन  have generally failed  to   support  the  आम  notion  कि  ordinary consumption  contributes  significantly  to  dehydration .
With heavy use  ,   सहिष्णुता   develops  rapidly to autonomic  प्रभाव   ऐसे   as  elevated heart  रेट  and muscle  twitching   ,   लकिन  not  to  the cognitive  or  arousal effects of caffeine  .
the   उपाधि  to which  कैफीन   can  produce clinically  significant  physical and mental dependence remains  a  subject  of   विवाद  in the medical  साहित्य   .
a  kicktail  क्रूजर
a  longboard is a longer variant of a skateboard .
it  is commonly used for  cruising  , downhill racing  ,  slalom  रेसिंग  , sliding ,  and/or  transport .
Sources  बाहर   of  Wikipedia give differing estimates:
The  सीआईए   's   संसार  Factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July  2012  est . ) and the distribution of religions as  ईसाई  100 % ( of which Roman Catholic 18.85 % , Protestant 8.15 % , Orthodox 4.96  %  , Anglican 1.26 % )  ,   मुस्लिम   22.74   %  , Hindu  13.8   %  , Buddhist  6.77  %  ,   सिखों  0.35 % , Jewish 0.22  %  , Baha'i 0.11 %  ,   अन्य   धर्मों  10.95 % , non-religious 9.66 % , atheists 2.01  %  .
(  2010 est . ) .
The  coast  Ranges of California span from Humboldt County , California south to Santa Barbara County .
The other three coastal California mountain ranges  हैं   the  Transverse  सीमाएँ  , Peninsular Ranges  और  the Klamath Mountains .
Physiographically , they are  a  section of the larger Pacific Border province  ,  which  in   फेरे  are part  of  the larger Pacific Mountain System  physiographic   प्रभाग  .
UNESCO has  शामिल  the  ``  California Coast  सीमाएँ  Biosphere Reserve  ``  in its Man and the Biosphere Programme  of  World Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1983  .
Vehicles in  उपयोग  per country from  2001  to  2007  .
It shows the  significant  growth  in   bric   .
संसार  map of passenger  गाड़ियाँ  per 1000  लोगों
an  automobile  ,  autocar , motor car or car is  a   wheeled   मोटर  vehicle used for transporting passengers , which also carries its own engine  or   मोटर  .
सबसे  definitions of  the  term  बताएँ   कि  automobiles are  designed   to  run primarily on roads , to have seating  लिये  one to eight people , to  typically  have four wheels ,  और  to be constructed principally for  the  transport of  लोगों  rather  than  goods .
The term motorcar  रै   भी  been  प्रयुक्त  in the context of electrified  रेल  systems to denote a  car   जिससे  functions as a small locomotive  लकिन  also  provides   स्पेस  for  यात्री  and baggage .
These locomotive cars were often used on suburban routes by both interurban and  intercity  railroad systems  .
It  थी  estimated in 2010 that  the   क्रमांक  of  ऑटोमोबाइल  had risen  to  over 1 billion  वाहनों  , up from the 500 million  of  1986 .
the   संख्याएँ  are increasing rapidly , especially in  चीन  and  इण्डिया  .
जॉन  Fitzgerald ``  जोकर  ''  कैनेडी   (  May  29   ,  1917 – November  22   ,  1963  )  ,  प्रायः   referred   to  by his initials JFK  ,   थी  the 35th President  of  the United States , serving from  1961   जबतक  his death in  1963  .
After  सैन्य  service  as  commander of the Motor Torpedo  नौकाएँ  PT-109 and PT-59  दौरान  World War II in the South  प्रशांत  , Kennedy represented Massachusetts  '  11th  congressional  district in  the  U.S. House of Representatives from 1947  to  1953 as  a  Democrat .
Thereafter  ,  he  परोसा  in the U.S. Senate  इससे   1953  until 1960 .
Kennedy defeated Vice President and Republican candidate Richard Nixon  in  the 1960 U.S.  अध्यक्षीय  election .
at  43 years of age , he is the youngest to have been elected  to  the office , the  second-youngest   अध्यक्ष  ( after Theodore Roosevelt ) ,  और  the  पहला  person born  in   the  20th century to serve as president .
A Catholic  ,  Kennedy is  the  only  non-  Protestant president , and is  the   तभी   अध्यक्ष  to  have  won a Pulitzer Prize .
कार्यक्रम  during  उसके  presidency  शामिल  the Bay of  सूअर  Invasion ,  the   क्यूबन  Missile  संकट  , the building of the Berlin  वॉल  , the Space Race , the  african-american   सिविल   अधिकारों  Movement  ,  and  जल्दी  stages of  the  Vietnam War .
Therein  ,  Kennedy  increased  the number of military  advisers   ,   खास  operation forces , and helicopters  in   an  effort to curb the spread of  साम्यवादी   in   दक्षिण  East Asia .
The Kennedy  प्रशासन  adopted the policy of  the  Strategic Hamlet  कार्यक्रम  which was  implemented  by the South Vietnamese government .
It involved certain forced relocation , village internment , and segregation  of  rural South  वियतनामी  from the  उत्तरी   और  southern  कम्युनिस्ट  insurgents .
Kennedy was assassinated on  नवम्बर  22 , 1963  in  Dallas  ,  Texas .
Lee  घनघोर  Oswald was charged with  the  crime , but  he  was  शॉट   और   मारे  by Jack Ruby two  दिनों  later , before a trial  could  take place .
The FBI and the Warren Commission officially  concluded  that Oswald was the lone assassin .
however  , the United States House Select Committee  on  Assassinations ( HSCA  )  concluded that those investigations were flawed and that  कैनेडी   थी  probably assassinated  as  the result of a conspiracy .
However  ,  ABC  न्यूज  in their investigation , The  कैनेडी  Assassination :  परे  Conspiracy , confirmed the findings of the Warren Commission ; having  concluded   ओसवाल्ड   acted   अलोन  .
Kennedy 's  विवादास्पद  Department  of  Defense  tfx   सेनानी   bomber  program led  to  a Congressional investigation that lasted  इससे  1963  to  1970 .
Since the 1960s information  concerning   कैनेडी  's private  जीवन  has come  to  light .
विवरण  of Kennedy 's health problems in which he  struggled  have become better  ज्ञात   ,   विशेषकर   चूंकि  the  1990s  .
Although initially  रखा  secret  इससे  the general  पब्लिक  , reports of  कैनेडी  's  philandering   have  garnered much press .
Kennedy ranks  अत्यधिक  in public opinion ratings of U.S.  राष्ट्रपतियों  .
A Siemens MXL  आग  alarm  कंट्रोल  panel ( top  )  and graphic annunciator ( bottom ) for Potomac Hall , at James Madison  विश्वविद्यालयों  .
A  सतर्क   vm-1   आग  alarm control  ईकाई   (  FACU )  /  autonomous control  ईकाई  ( ACU ) with integrated voice evacuation and fire fighter telephone system .
Manufactured by  एडवर्ड्स   ,  A UTC  f  & S Company
A  आग  Alarm  कंट्रोल  Panel (  facp  ) , or Fire Alarm Control Unit (  facu  ) , is the controlling component of  a   आग  Alarm System .
The panel  receives   सूचना   इससे  environmental  सेंसर  designed  to  detect  परिवर्तन  associated with  आग  ,  मॉनीटर  their operational  अखंडता   और  provides for  स्वचालित  control  of   उपकरण   ,   और   हस्तांतरण   of  information  जरुरी  to  तैयारी   the   सुविधा  for fire based on a predetermined sequence  .
The  फलक   may  also supply electrical energy  to  operate any  संबद्ध  sensor ,  कंट्रोल  , transmitter , or relay .
There are four  मौलिक  types of  panels  :  coded  panels  ,  conventional panels  ,  addressable panels , and multiplex systems  .
This  is  a list of the first music videos broadcast  on   एमटीवी   's  first  दिन   ,  August 1  ,  1981 .
MTV 's first  दिन  on the  एयर  was  rebroadcast   on  VH1 Classic  in  2006 and  अपलोड  onto YouTube  in  2010  (  although  तभी  the first four hours were authentic ;  the  rest  यहूद  edited VH1 rebroadcasts  )  .
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA  )  ( also known as Katunayake International  विमानक्षेत्र  and  कोलोन   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport  )   is   एक  of the two international  एयरपोर्ट   सेवारत   the   नगर  of Colombo , the other is Ratmalana International Airport  .
Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport located in  दक्षिणी  city  of  Hambantota is the other international airport in Sri  लंका   .
भण्डारनायके  International  विमानक्षेत्र   is  located in Katunayake ,  22  miles ( 35 km  )  north of Colombo .
It is administered by Airport  और  Aviation Services  (   श्री  Lanka  )  Ltd .
it   is  the hub  of  SriLankan Airlines , the national carrier of Sri Lanka  ,  and  mihin  Lanka ,  the   बजट  airline  of  Sri  लंका   .
Black Swan is a 2010 American  मनोवैज्ञानिक  thriller and  हॉरर  film directed  by   डैरेन  Aronofsky and starring  नताली  Portman , Vincent Cassel  ,  and  mila   kunis   .
The plot revolves around  a  production of Tchaikovsky  's  Swan  झील   बैले  by a prestigious New York City company .
The production requires a ballerina  to  play  the  innocent and  नाजुक   श्वेत  Swan , for which  the  committed dancer Nina ( Portman ) is a perfect fit  ,  as  खूब   as  the  अंधेरा  and sensual  ब्लैक  Swan  ,  which are qualities embodied  by  the  नई   आगमन   लिली   (  Kunis ) .
नीना  is overwhelmed by  a  feeling  of  immense  दबाव  when  वो   पाता  herself  स्पर्धा   लिये   the  part , causing  उसके  to lose her tenuous  पकड़  on reality  और   descend  into a living  दुःस्वप्न   .
aronofsky  conceived the  आधार  by connecting his viewings  of  a production of  swan  Lake with  an  unrealized screenplay  परिचय   understudies  and the notion of  होने  haunted  by  a  दोगुना  , similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers .
aronofsky   cites   fyodor  Dostoyevsky  's  ``  the  Double  ``  as another inspiration for  the  film .
The  निदेशक  also  माना  Black Swan a companion piece to his  2008  film  the  Wrestler ,  साथ   दोनो  films involving demanding performances  लिये  different  kinds   of   आर्ट  .
he  and Portman  पहला   discussed   the  project  in  2000  ,  and after a brief  अनुलग्नक  to Universal Studios , Black  swan  was produced in New  यॉर्क  City in 2009 by  फॉक्स   searchlight  Pictures  .
Portman and Kunis trained in  बैले  for several months prior to filming ,  और  notable figures  इससे  the ballet world helped with film  उत्पादन  to shape the  बैले  presentation .
The  फिल्मी   premiered   as  the  खोलने  film for the 67th  वेनिस  International Film Festival on  सितंबर  1  ,  2010 .
It had  a  limited  रिलीज   in  the  संयुक्त  States starting December  3  , 2010 and  खोली  nationwide on December 17 .
ब्लैक   swan  received critical  तारीफ़  upon its release ,  विशेषकर  for Portman  's  performance  और   aronofsky  's direction ,  और  was a significant box  दफ्तर  success ,  grossing  $ 329 million worldwide  .
The film received five Academy Award nominations and Portman won the Best Actress award for the film ,  as  well  as  many other Best  अभिनेत्री   पुरस्कार   in  several  guilds   और   त्यौहार  , while Aronofsky was nominated for Best Director .
In addition , the  फिल्मी  itself received a nomination for  बेहतरीन   चित्र  .
The world’s  पहला  ice-calorimeter , used  in  the winter of 1782-83 , by Antoine  लाव्वाज़्ये  and Pierre-Simon Laplace , to determine the heat involved  in  various chemical  परिवर्तन  ; calculations  जिससे   यहूद   आधारित   on  Joseph Black  ’s  prior discovery of latent heat .
These experiments mark the  न्यास  of thermochemistry .
A calorimeter (  इससे  Latin calor  ,   अर्थ   ऊष्मा  )  is  an object used for  कैलोरीमिति   ,   or   the  process of  measuring  the heat  of  chemical reactions or physical changes as well as heat capacity .
Differential  स्कैनिंग  calorimeters  ,   समतापी  microcalorimeters ,  titration  calorimeters  और  accelerated rate calorimeters  हैं   among  the most common types  .
A simple calorimeter  बस  consists of a thermometer attached to  a   मेटल  container full  of  water  निलंबित  above a  दहन  chamber  .
To  ढूँढें  the  enthalpy   बदलें   प्रति  mole  of  a substance  a  in a  प्रतिक्रिया  between two substances A  और  B ,  the  substances are added to  a   ऊष्मामापी  and the initial and final temperatures ( before the reaction started and after  it  has  समाप्त  )  हैं  noted .
Multiplying  the  temperature change by the  द्रव्यमान  and  विशिष्ट  heat capacities of the substances gives  a   मान  for the  उर्जा   दिए  off or absorbed  दौरान  the reaction .
dividing   the  energy change  by  how many moles of A were present  देता  its enthalpy change of reaction  .
This method is used primarily  in  academic  शिक्षण   as  it  describes  the  सिद्धान्त  of calorimetry  .
It  करता   नहीं  account for the  ऊष्मा  loss  through  the container or  the  heat capacity of the thermometer and  संग्राहक  itself  .
In addition , the object placed inside  the  calorimeter shows that the objects transferred their  ऊष्मा  to  the   ऊष्मामापी  and into  the  liquid , and the heat absorbed by  the  calorimeter and the  द्रव   is  equal to the  ऊष्मा  given off by the metals .
A pair of green flip-flops
flip-flops  (  भी  called zōri , thongs , jandals ,  or  a  किस्में  of other names throughout the world ) are  a   प्रकार  of open-toed sandal  typically   worn   in  casual  परिस्थितियों  ,  ऐसे  as outside  or  at the  बीच  .
They consist of  a   चपटा  sole held loosely on the foot by a Y-shaped  डोरी   कि   गुजरता  between  the  first  और  second toes  और  around either side  of  the  पैर  .
They  may  also be held to  the  foot with a single strap over the front  of  the foot rather  than  a thong  .
the   नाम   ``   flip-flop  ''  originated   क्युकी   of   the  sound that is made by  slapping   between  the  एकमात्र   of  the foot and the floor  जब   चलना  .
This  स्टाइल   of  footwear has  महरूम  worn by the people  of   अनेक   संस्कृतियों  throughout the world  ,   originating  as  जल्दी  as the ancient Egyptians in  4,000  B.C  .
The modern flip-flop descends from the  जापानी   zōri  , which became popular  बाद  World War II  जब   सैनिको  returning  to  the United States brought them  वापस  .
वे  became popular in casual settings during the  1960s  , 1990s ,  और  2000s  ,   और  some varieties have even  मिला  their way into more  औपचारिक  attire , despite criticism  .
The  उपयोग  of flip-flops can  परिणाम  in many pains and  चोटों  , including ankle sprains and broken bones  .
Some individuals  जो  walk for long periods  रपट  pain in the feet , ankles  ,   और  lower legs .
The lack of  support  provided by flip-flops often results in over-pronation  चोटों  ,  caused   by  the foot  घुसते   inwards   further  than normal .
This can lead  to   चपटा  feet and  tendonitis  .
Other injuries  कि  may result are due to  the   जूते   's  open-toed nature , such  as   stubbed  toes , cuts  ,  and bruises  .
डॉक्टर  recommend purchasing pricier sandals with thick-cushioned  सोल्स  , as well as  those  that have a  डोरी   कि  is  नहीं   कैनवास   और   कि  comes back almost to the  टखने  .
The owners of Hanjin Osaka , seen  यहाँ   transiting   the  Panama  कनाल  in 2008  ,  declared  सामान्य  average following an  विस्फोट  in the  जलयान  's engine room  on  .
The  विधि  of general average  is  a legal principle of maritime  विधि  according to which all parties in a sea  venture   proportionally  share any losses resulting  इससे   a   voluntary   बलिदान  of part of  the  ship or cargo to save the whole in an emergency  .
in  the exigencies  of  hazards faced  at  sea  ,  crew  सदस्यों   प्रायः  have  अनमोल  little time  in  which to determine  precisely  whose  कार्गो  they are jettisoning  .
Thus , to avoid  quarrelling   कि  could  बर्बाद  valuable time , there arose the  निष्पक्ष  practice whereby all the  व्यापारियों  whose cargo landed safely would be  पुकारा   on   to  contribute  a   portion  ,  आधारित  upon a  share  or  प्रतिशत   ,  to the merchant or merchants  जिनकी  goods had been tossed  overboard   to  avert imminent  peril   .
While general average  traces  its origins  in  ancient  मेरीटाइम  law  ,  still it  remains  part  of   the   admiralty  law of most countries .
The first codification  of  general average  थी  the York  antwerp   नियम  of  1890  .
American companies accepted it in 1949 .
General average  requires  three  तत्व   जिससे  are clearly stated by Mr. Justice Grier in Barnard v. Adams:
``  1st .
A common danger  :  a danger  in  which vessel  ,  cargo and crew all participate ;  a  danger imminent and apparently 'inevitable ,  '  except by voluntarily incurring the loss of a portion  of  the whole to  सहेजें  the  शेष   .  ''
`` 2nd  .  There must  be  a voluntary jettison  ,  jactus  ,  or  ढलाई  away  ,   of  some  portion   of  the joint  चिंता  for the purpose of  बचने   इस  imminent peril , periculi  imminentis  evitandi  causa  ,  or   ,  in other words , a transfer of the  peril  from  the   पूरे  to a particular portion  of  the  पूरे  . ''
``  3rd  .
This attempt  to  avoid the imminent  आम  peril  जरूर  be successful  ''   .
Example  पॉलिश   कॉल   लिये  vaccination against  डिप्थीरिया   और  Tetanus .
A vaccination schedule is a series of  vaccinations   ,  including  the  timing  of  all doses , which may  be   either  recommended  or  compulsory ,  depending  on the country  of  residence  .
A  टीका  is an  antigenic  preparation used to  उपज   क्रियाशील  immunity to a  बीमारी  , in order to prevent or reduce the effects of  संक्रमण  by any  प्राकृतिक  or  ``  wild '' pathogen .
Many vaccines require multiple doses for maximum  प्रभावकारिता  , either to  उपज   sufficient  initial immune response or to boost  जवाब  that  fades   over  time  .
लिये   उदाहरण  , tetanus  टीका  boosters  हैं  often recommended every 10 years .
Vaccine  schedules   हैं  developed by governmental agencies or  physicians  groups to achieve maximum  प्रभावकारिता   using   जरूरी   और  recommended vaccines for a  मोहल्ले   जबकि  minimizing the number of health care system  interactions  .
over  the  पास्ट  two  दशकों  , the recommended vaccination  अनुसूची  has grown rapidly and become  अधिक   जटिल  as many new  टीके   have   महरूम   विकसित  .
कुछ  vaccines are  अनुशंसित   तभी  in certain areas ( countries , subnational  क्षेत्रों  ,  or  at-risk populations  )   जहाँ  a disease is common .
For instance ,  पीला  fever vaccination  is  on the routine vaccine  अनुसूची  of  फ्रेंच  Guiana ,  is  recommended in  निश्चित  regions  of  Brazil but in  the  United States is only given to  travelers  heading to  देशों   साथ   a   इतिहास  of the disease .
In developing countries , vaccine  सुझाव   भी  take into account the level of health care access  ,  the cost of  टीके  and issues with vaccine availability and  भंडार  .
Sample  vaccinations  schedules discussed by the World Health  संगठन   दिखाएँ  a developed  देश  using a  अनुसूची  which  extends  over the first five years of  a  child 's  जीवन   और   उपयोग  vaccines which cost over  $   700  including administration costs while  a   विकासशील  country uses a schedule providing vaccines in  the  first 9 months of life and costing only $ 25 .
This difference  is   due   to  the lower cost of  स्वास्थ्य  care , the lower  लागत   of  many vaccines provided  to   विकासशील  nations , and that  अधिक  expensive vaccines  ,  often for less common diseases , are not utilized .
In  1900  ,  the   smallpox  vaccine was the only one  administered  to  children  .
By the early 1950s ,  children   routinely  received  चार  vaccines , for protection against ( diphtheria , pertussis , tetanus ,  पोलियो  , and smallpox ) , and as many as five  गोलियाँ   by  two  सालो  of age .
Since the mid-1980s , many  टीके  have been added to the schedule .
, the US Centers for Disease  कंट्रोल  and  रोकथाम  (  सीडीसी   )   अभी  recommends vaccination against at least fourteen diseases .
By two years of  आयु   ,  U.S. children receive as many as  24  vaccine  injections   ,   और  might receive up to  पाँच  shots  दौरान  one visit to the doctor .
The use of combination vaccine products means  कि   ,   ,  the United Kingdom 's  immunization  program  consists  of 10 injections  by   the  age  of  two  ,  rather than 25 if vaccination for each  बीमारी  was given  as  a separate injection .
दो  revellers dance in the  गलियों  .
the  form of dancing  is  called `` wining '' ( winding )  सुनाया  wine-ing
a  Music Truck entertains the crowd on the streets .
Trucks  हैं  an  अभिन्न  part of the street  परेड  ,  featuring   सजीव  performances  or   deejays
the   त्रिनिदाद   और   टोबैगो  Carnival  is  an  सालाना   इवेंट  held  on   the   सोमवार  and Tuesday before Ash  बुधवार   ,  and  is   खूब  known for participant 's colorful costumes and  समृद्ध   जश्न  .
Carnival in Trinidad and Tobago  is   the   सबसे  significant event on the  आइलैंड्स  ' cultural and  पर्यटन  calendar  ,  with numerous cultural  कार्यक्रम  running in the lead up  to  the street  परेड  on Carnival  सोमवार  and Tuesday  .
it  is said that if the islanders  हैं  not celebrating  it  , then they are  तैयारी  for it ,  जबकि   reminiscing   परिचय  the past year  's  festival .
The  दिल  of the musical celebration  रै  been calypso ; recently soca has  replaced  calypso as  the   सबसे  celebrated  प्रकार  of music  .
Costumes  ,   stickfighting  and limbo  प्रतियोगिताओं  are also important components of the  पर्व  .
Carnival  as  it is  मनाये   in  Trinidad and Tobago is also celebrated  in  cities  विश्वव्यापी  .
These  सहित  Toronto 's  caribana   ,  Miami  's  Miami Carnival  ,  Houston Carifest ,  लंदन  's Notting Hill Carnival as well as New York City  's  Labor Day  कार्निवल  to name  a  few .
Carnival was created when West African slaves mimicked  उनके   फ्रेंच  owners  जो  where  ज्ञात  for their lavish costumes balls .
हराम   to  partake in  ये  festivities and confined to  उनके  quarters ,  स्लेव  combined elements from their  अपना  cultures  to  their master 's  fete  .
Hence the  सृष्टि   of  characters such as Jab Jab or Jab Molassie  (  Devils ) , Midnight Robbers  ,  Imps ,  lagahroo   ,  Soucouyant , La Diablesse and Demons  .
साथ   the   abolition  of slavery  in   1838  ,  freed  Africans took their  संस्करण  of Carnival to the streets through  अभिव्यक्ति  of drums  ,  riddim sections  जैसे  tamboo  बाँसुरी   और   as  each  नई  immigrant population entered Trinidad , Carnival  विकसित  into  कया  we know today .
The  नगर   of   शिकागो  ,  इलिनोइस  held a nonpartisan mayoral election  on  Tuesday , February 22 ,  2011  .
Incumbent  महापौर  Richard  M.  Daley ,  a  member of the  लोकतांत्रिक  Party who had been  in   दफ्तर  since 1989  ,  did not seek a seventh term  as  mayor .
Candidates  needed  to collect  12,500  petition signatures by November  22  , 2010 to  qualify  for a place on the  बैलट  .
April 5 , 2011 was scheduled  to  be a runoff election date if no candidate  प्राप्त   an  absolute  बहुमत  .
rahm   emanuel  won the race for  महापौर  with more than  55  % of  the  vote  .
He  थी  inaugurated on May  16  , 2011 .
`` Pumped Up  kicks   ''  is a  सोंग  by American indie  पॉप  band  फोस्टर   the  People .
It was  released   as  the group  's   डेब्यू  single in  सितंबर   2010  ,  और  the following  साल  was included on their  ep  Foster  the  People and  उनके   डेब्यू  album Torches .
``  Pumped Up Kicks '' became the group 's  भेदन  hit and was one of the  सबसे  popular songs  of  2011 .
the  song was written and recorded by frontman  चिह्नित  Foster while he  थी   working  as  a  commercial  झंकार  writer .
Contrasting  साथ  the upbeat  musical  composition , the lyrics describe the homicidal thoughts  of  a troubled youth .
The track received  considerable  attention after  it  was posted  ऑनलाइन   in  2010 as a free download  ,   और  it helped the  समूह  garner a multi-album  रिकार्ड  deal  साथ  Columbia Records imprint Startime International  .
``  उत्तेजित  Up Kicks '' proved to be  a  sleeper hit ; in 2011  ,  after  receiving  significant airplay on modern rock stations  ,  the song  crossed-over   onto   समकालीन  hit  रेडियो  stations .
The song spent  आठ  consecutive weeks at number three on the Billboard  hot   100  chart  in  the  संयुक्त  States  ,  making it the first  बिलबोर्ड  Alternative Songs number-one single to  क्रैक  the  u.S.  top  5   चूंकि  Kings  of   लिओन  's ``  उपयोग  Somebody  ``   in  2009 .
The  सोंग  was widely praised  by   आलोचकों  , and it has been  licensed   लिये  use in a wide range of popular media since its release .
``  उत्तेजित   up   kicks  '' received a  ग्रैमी  Award nomination for Best  पॉप  Duo/Group Performance .
the  State Fair of West  वर्जिनिया  is an annual state fair for West  वर्जिनिया   .
It is held annually in mid-August  on  the State  fairgrounds  in Fairlea , near Lewisburg , West Virginia in the southeastern part of  the  state .
The  राज्य  Fairgrounds consists  of  a large  खोलें  field  लिये  carnivals  और  exhibitions  ,  a horse track , grandstands  ,  and  अनेक   प्रदर्शनी  buildings .
Free parking  is   provided   सटा   to   the  fairgrounds and  ,  until 2006 , free camping  थी   भी  available in  a  large field  साथ  running-water  toilets   और   बौछार  , but  no  hookups .
Campers are  अभी  charged a small fee .
The White  हाउस  , the president  's  official residence and  बीच  of the administration
Under the United States Constitution  ,  the  अध्यक्ष  of the  संयुक्त  States is the  सिर  of  राज्य  and head of government of the United States  .
As  मुख्य  of  the  executive branch and  सिर  of the  संघीय   सरकारी  as  a  whole  ,  the  प्रेसिडेंसी   is  the  उच्चतम  political  दफ्तर  in the United States by influence  और  recognition .
the   अध्यक्ष  is also the commander-in-chief of  the  United States  हथियारबंद  Forces  .
the   अध्यक्ष   is   indirectly  elected  to  a four-year  पद   by  an Electoral College ( or by  the  House of Representatives  चाहिए  the  चुनावी   कॉलेज  fail to award an  निरपेक्ष  majority  of   मत   to  any person ) .
Since  the   अनुसमर्थन   of  the Twenty-second  amendment  to  the   संयुक्त  States Constitution in 1951 , no person  may   be   निर्वाचित  President more  than  twice  ,  and  no   एक   जो   रै   परोसा   अधिक  than two  सालो   of   a  term to which someone  else   थी   निर्वाचित  may be  निर्वाचित  more  than  once .
Upon the death , resignation ,  or  removal from office  of   an  incumbent President , the Vice President assumes the office  .
The President  जरूर  be  at  least 35  सालो  of age and  a  `` natural born  ''   नागरिक  of  the  United States .
इस  list includes  तभी  those persons  जो  were sworn into  दफ्तर  as  अध्यक्ष   following   the  ratification of the  संयुक्त  States Constitution ,  जिससे   took  effect on  कूच  4  ,  1789 .
For American leaders  पहले  this  अनुसमर्थन  , see President of the  महाद्वीपीय  Congress .
The list  करता   नहीं  include  कोई  Acting Presidents under the Twenty-fifth Amendment  to  the  संयुक्त  States Constitution .
There  have  been 43 people  sworn   into  office , and  44  presidencies , as Grover Cleveland served  दो   non-consecutive  terms and  is   गिने  chronologically as  दोनो  the 22nd and  24th   अध्यक्ष  .
Of the individuals elected as  अध्यक्ष  , four died in office of  प्राकृतिक   कल्याणकारी  ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and Franklin D.  रूज़वेल्ट  ) , four were  assassinated   (  Abraham  lincoln   ,  James A. Garfield  ,  William  mckinley   ,  and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned (  रिचर्ड  Nixon ) .
George Washington , the first president , was inaugurated in 1789 after a unanimous vote  of  the Electoral College  .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32  दिनों  in 1841 , and Franklin D. Roosevelt  खर्च  the longest with  over   बारह   सालो  , but  died   shortly  into his  चौथी  term in  1945  .
He  is   the  only president to serve  अधिक  than two  शर्तें  ,  और  a constitutional amendment  ,   affecting  presidents after  हैरी  Truman ,  थी  passed to limit the number  of  times  an   व्यक्तिगत  can be  निर्वाचित   अध्यक्ष  .
Andrew Jackson  ,  the seventh president , was the first to be elected  by  men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners  इससे  voting  यहूद  repealed .
Warren Harding was the first  निर्वाचित  after women gained  मतदान  rights in 1920 .
History records four presidents – John Q Adams  ,  Rutherford B. Hayes , Benjamin Harrison and George W. Bush  –   जो  lost the popular vote  लकिन   assumed  office .
John F.  कैनेडी   रै   महरूम   the  only president  of  Roman Catholic faith ,  और  the current  अध्यक्ष  , Barack Obama  ,  is  the  first  अध्यक्ष  of African  descent  .
`` Lombardi Trophy  ''  redirects  यहाँ  .
लिये  the award  awarded  annually to the best college football lineman or linebacker  ,   देखिए   लोम्बार्डी  Award  .
The Vince Lombardi Trophy  is   the  trophy awarded each  साल   to  the winning team of the National Football League 's championship game , the Super Bowl  .
The  ट्रॉफी  is  नामित  in  सम्मान   of  legendary NFL coach Vince  लोम्बार्डी  .
This is  a   सूची  of tables of the verified  oldest  people in the world  in  ordinal rank  ,  such as  oldest  person or oldest man .
In these tables  ,  a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his  or   उसके  claim  रै   महरूम   validated   by   an  international body that  specifically  deals in longevity research ,  ऐसे  as the  जराविद्या  Research Group (  grg  ) or Guinness World  रिकॉर्ड  .
the   longest   unambiguously  documented human  जीवनकाल   is  that  of  Jeanne Calment of  फ़्रांस   (   1875–1997   )  , who  died  at age  122  years  ,   164  days .
She  मिले  Vincent van Gogh when she was 12 or  13  .
This  led   to  news  मीडिया   ध्यान  in  1985  , after Calment turned  110   .
Subsequent  छानबीन   मिला  documentation for Calment  's  age , beyond any  उचित   सवाल   ,   in   the   रिकॉर्ड  of her native  नगर  ,  arles   ,   फ़्रांस  .
अधिक  evidence  of  Calment 's lifespan has  महरूम  produced than  लिये  any  अन्य  supercentenarian ; her  मामला  serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying  the  ages  of  the world  's  oldest  लोगों  .
The longest undisputed lifespan for  पुरूष  supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura  ,  who  फिलहाल  lives  in  Japan and is  आयु   as  of  .
Since  the   मौत  of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United  राज्य  ,  on   17  December 2012 ,  किमुरा  ,  born   19   अप्रैल  1897 ,  is  the oldest  जीना  person  in  the  संसार   जिनकी  age  can   be  documented .
He  रै   भी   महरूम   the  oldest living man since  the  death of  114-year   बूढ़ा   वाल्टर  Breuning on 14  अप्रैल   2011  .
Since the death  of  115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12  जनवरी  2013 , the  oldest  living woman has been -year-old  misao  Okawa  ,   भी  from Japan  ,  born  on   5  March 1898 .
the  People 's Court  is  an American arbitration-based reality court  दिखाएँ  ,  फिलहाल  presided over  by  retired Florida State  सर्किट   अदालत  Judge Marilyn Milian , in  जिससे   छोटी   दावा  disputes are handled .
The People 's  अदालत  is the first court show to use binding arbitration ,  introducing  the  स्वरूप  into the  विधा  in 1981 .
The system  रै  been duplicated  by   सबसे  of  the  show 's  successors  in the judicial  विधा  .
Moreover , The  लोगों  's  अदालत  is the first popular , long-running  वास्तविकता   in  the judicial genre .
It was preceded only by  a  few short-lived  हकीकत  in  the  genre  ;  these  short-lived  predecessors  यहूद  only  loosely  related to judicial  कार्यवाही  , except for  एक  : Parole  (  1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal  कार्यवाही  .
prior  to  the   लोगों   's   अदालत  , the vast  बहुमत  of TV  courtroom  shows  प्रयुक्त  actors ,  और  recreated or fictional cases (  as   किया  radio before  कि  )  .
among   उदाहरण  of these  प्रकार  of court shows  शामिल  Famous Jury  ट्रायल  and  अपना   गवाह  .
the  People 's Court has  था  two contrasting  जीवनदान  .
The show 's first life was  presided  over  solely   by  former Los Angeles County  श्रेष्ठ  Court Judge Joseph Wapner .
उसके   कार्यकाल  lasted from the show  's  debut on September 14 , 1981 , until May  21  , 1993  ,  when the show was  रद्द   due  to  कम   दरजा  .
This left  the   दिखाएँ   साथ   a   कुल  of 2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes  और   12  seasons  .
the  show  थी  taped in Los  एंजिल्स  during its first  जीवन  .
After  होने   रद्द   ,  reruns aired  जबतक  September  9  , 1994 .
On September 8 , 1997  ,  after being out  of  production  लिये  four  सालो  ,  the  People 's  अदालत   थी  revived for a  दूसरी   जीवन  in first-run syndication as a 60-minute program  .
Former lawyer and  महापौर  of New York  ed  Koch was chosen as arbiter  ,  which he maintained for 2 seasons from the 1997–98 season  through  the 1998–99 season  (   the  present life  's  2nd  ऋतु   और  overall show 's 14th ) .
by   the   1999–00   ऋतु  , husband of Judith Sheindlin ( who presides  over  Judge  जुडी  ) and  पूर्व   नई   यॉर्क   राज्य  Supreme  अदालत   न्यायधीश  Jerry  sheindlin  succeeded Koch .
Sheindlin lasted one and  a   हाफ  seasons  as   he  was replaced towards the  समाप्त  of the 2000–01 season (  उपस्थित  life 's 4th season and overall show 's  17th  )  .
Beginning in spring  2001   ,  Florida judge  मर्लिन  Milian took over  the   लोगों  's Court and  रै  presided over the  दिखाएँ  ever  चूंकि  .
एकबार  Milian completes the 2012–13  ऋतु  ,  वो   होगा  have served as  longest   arbiter   over   the  series with 12 and  a   हाफ   सीज़न  .
As of  the  present , however , her years  on  the program tie  wapner  at 12  सीज़न   .
In the  2009-10   टेलीविज़न  season  ,  The  लोगों   's  Courts 2nd/present life  outlasted  its  पहला   जब   it   पहुँचे  13 seasons .
While  the  show  taped  in New  यॉर्क  City for the  पहला  15 seasons of its second life , it  अभी  tapes  in  Stamford  ,  Connecticut as of the 2012-13 season  .
On September 3 ,  2012  ,  the  People  's   अदालत  's  2nd/present  life entered its 16th season  (  28th overall season ) .
With 28 total seasons ,  the  People 's  अदालत  ranks as the  2nd  longest-running courtroom  कार्यक्रम  behind the ongoing Divorce Court at 33  सीज़न  ( from its 3 combined lives ) .
Utah  (   or  )  (  Arapaho  :  Wo'tééneihí ' ) is a state in the  पश्चिमी  United States .
it   became  the 45th  राज्य  admitted to  the   संघ   on   जनवरी   4   ,   1896  .
Utah is  the  13th-largest  ,   the  34th-most  populous   ,   और  the  10th-least-densely   आबादी  of the 50 United States .
Approximately  80  % of Utah 's 2,817,222 people live along the Wasatch  सामने  , centering  on  Salt Lake City , leaving vast expanses  of  the state nearly uninhabited and  बनाना  the  जनसांख्यिकी  the sixth most urbanized in the U.S. Utah is bordered  by  Colorado on the east  ,  Wyoming  on  the  पूर्वोत्तर  ,  idaho   on  the north , Arizona on  the  south , and Nevada on  the   वेस्ट  .
It also  छू  a corner of New Mexico on  the  southeast .
Utah is the most religiously homogeneous  राज्य  in the Union .
लगभग  63 % of Utahns are reported to be members  of  The Church  of  Jesus Christ of Latter-day  संतो  or LDS  (  Mormons ) ,  जिससे  greatly  प्रभाव   यूटा  culture and daily life  .
the  world headquarters of The Church of  यीशु  Christ of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ) is located in  यूटा   's  state capital  .
the   राज्य  is a center of transportation ,  शिक्षा   ,   सूचना  technology  और   शोध  , government  सेवाएं  , mining ,  और  a  प्रमुख  tourist destination  लिये   बाहरी   मनोरंजन  .
According to  the   u.S.   जनसांख्यिकी   ब्यूरो   's   जनसांख्यिकी  estimates , Utah is the  पांचवां  fastest-growing state  in   the  United States as of 2012 .
St. George ,  थी   the   fastest–growing  metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  in  the  United States from 2000  to  2005  .
A 2012  gallup   नेशनल  survey found Utah  overall   to   be  the ``  बेहतरीन  state to  सजीव  in ''  आधारित  on 13 forward-looking measurements including various  आर्थिक  , lifestyle  ,  and health-related outlook  मेट्रिक्स  .
coldwater  is a small  कस्बा  in  टेट  County  ,  Mississippi .
it   is   in   the   मेम्फिस  Metropolitan Area  .
The population  थी   1,674  at the 2000 census .
the  hard palate is a thin  आड़ा   बोनी   थाली  of  the   कपाल  , located  in  the roof of  the  mouth  .
It spans the arch  formed  by  the  upper  दांत  .
It is  formed  by the palatine  प्रक्रम  of  the  maxilla and horizontal plate of palatine  अस्थि   .
It forms  a   विभाजन  between the  nasal  passages  और   the   मुँह  .
भी   on   the  anterior portion of the roof  of  the  मुश्किल   तालु   is  the  rugae  which  हैं  the irregular ridges in  the  mucous  झिल्ली  that help facilitate the movement of  खाना   पीछे  towards the  pharynx  .
This partition is  जारी   deeper   into   the  mouth  by  a fleshy extension called the  नरम  palate  .
Complete set of  scrolls   ,  constituting  the  entire Tanakh  .
The Tanakh (  ,   or  ;  भी  Tenakh  ,   tenak   ,   tanach  ) is a name used in Judaism for  the   canon  of  the  Hebrew Bible .
The Tanakh is  भी  known as the  masoretic  Text or the Miqra .
The name is  an  acronym formed from the  आरंभिक  Hebrew letters  of  the Masoretic  टेक्स्ट  's three traditional subdivisions :  the   तोरा   (  ``  शिक्षण   ''  , also known  as  the Five Books of  मूसा  ) , Nevi'im ( `` Prophets ''  )  and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' )  —hence  TaNaKh .
the  name `` Miqra  ''   (   מקרא  )  ,  meaning `` that which is read  ''  ,  is  an alternative Hebrew  पद  for the Tanakh .
The  किताबे  of the  tanakh  were relayed with an accompanying oral tradition passed on  by  each generation , called the Oral Torah  .
Sobriety checkpoint  in   जर्मनी
Driving  अंतर्गत   the  influence  (  DUI  )   ,  driving  जबकि  intoxicated ( DWI ) , drunken driving , drunk  ड्राइविंग  , drink driving ,  ऑपरेटिंग  under the influence ,  पीने  and driving , or impaired  ड्राइविंग  is the  अपराधों   of  driving a motor vehicle with blood levels  of  alcohol in excess  of  a legal limit  (   ``  Blood Alcohol Content ''  ,  or  ``  BAC  ''   )   .
Similar  regulations  cover driving or operating certain types of machinery while affected  by  drinking alcohol or taking  अन्य  drugs  ,   सहित  , but not limited to  नुस्खा  drugs .
इस   is  a criminal offense in most nations .
Convictions  do  not  necessarily  involve actual driving  of   the  vehicle  .
In  सबसे  jurisdictions  a  measurement  ऐसे   as  a  रक्त  alcohol  सामग्री   (  BAC ) in excess of  a   विशिष्ट  threshold  स्तर   ,  such as 0.05 % or  0.08  % defines the offense  ,  with  no  need to prove impairment or being  अंतर्गत  the influence of  दारू   .
In  कुछ  jurisdictions , there is an aggravated category  of  the offense at a  उच्चतर   स्तर  e.g . 0.12 % .
In most countries , anyone who  is  convicted  of   injuring   or  killing someone while  अंतर्गत  the influence of alcohol  or  drugs  can   be   heavily  fined , as in France  ,  in addition to being given a  lengthy  prison sentence .
Some jobs have their  अपना  rules and BAC  हद   ,  for  उदाहरण  commercial  पायलट  , and  the  Federal  रेलरोड  Administration in  the   संयुक्त   राज्य   रै  a 0.04 % limit  लिये   ट्रैन  crew .
Some jurisdictions have multiple levels  of  BAC  ;   लिये   उदाहरण   ,  the state of California has a 0.08  %  BAC limit , which is lowered  to   0.04  % if the operator holds a  वाणिज्यिक  driver 's license  .
the   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  BAC  सीमा  is 0.01 %  लिये   those   younger  than  21  years  of  age and  those   on  probation  लिये  a  पिछला   dui  conviction  .
कुछ   विशाल  corporations have  उनके   अपना   नियम  ; Union  प्रशांत   रेलरोड   रै  their own BAC  सीमा  of 0.02 % that , if violated during a random test or a for-cause  परीक्षण  — for example , after a traffic accident — can  परिणाम   in   termination  of employment with no chance  of   भविष्य  re-hire .
अनेक  states in  the  U.S. and  प्रांतों  in Canada  have  adopted  सच्चाई  in sentencing laws that enforce strict guidelines  on  sentencing ,  differing  from  पिछला  practice where prison  समय  was reduced or suspended after  sentencing   था  been issued  .
Some jurisdictions have judicial guidelines requiring  a  mandatory  न्यूनतम  sentence  .
दंड   लिये  DUI charges range from expensive fees  to   forfetiruree   of  your license plates  और  in some serious  हालातों   ,  your vehicle .
a   नशे  driving  सिम्युलेटर  in Montréal , Canada
the  specific criminal offense may  be  called , depending  on   the  jurisdiction , driving under the influence  [  of alcohol or  अन्य  drugs ] (  dui  ) ,  ड्राइविंग  under intense  influence  ( DUII ) , driving  जबकि   intoxicated  ( DWI ) ,  ऑपरेटिंग  under the influence ( OUI ) operating  जबकि  intoxicated ( OWI ) , operating  a  motor vehicle while  intoxicated   (   omvi   )   ,   ड्राइविंग  under the combined influence  of   दारू   and/or  other  दवाएँ  , driving  अंतर्गत   the  influence per  se  or drunk  in  charge [ of a vehicle ] .
Many  ऐसे   कानून   लागू   भी   to   motorcycling   ,  boating , piloting aircraft , use of  motile  farm equipment such  as   tractors   और  combines , riding  घोड़े  or driving  a  horse-drawn vehicle  ,  or  bicycling  ,  संभवतः  with different  bac  level than  ड्राइविंग  .
in  some jurisdictions there  हैं  separate charges depending on  the  vehicle used  ,  such  as  BWI ( bicycling while intoxicated ) , which  may  carry  a  lighter sentence .
In the United States , local  विधि   प्रवर्तन  agencies made 1,467,300 arrests nationwide for  ड्राइविंग   अंतर्गत  the influence of  दारू  in 1996 ,  compared   to  1.9 million such  रखवाले   दौरान  the peak year  in  1983 .
in  1997 an estimated 513,200  dwi  offenders were  in  prison or jail , down from 593,000 in 1990 and  up  from 270,100 in 1986 .
अधिकारियों  from  us  Customs and Border Protection  बोर्डिंग  a  जलयान
Law  प्रवर्तन   in  the  संयुक्त  States is one  of  three  प्रमुख   components   of  the  दण्ड   इंसाफ  system  of   the  United  राज्य  , along with  न्यायालयों  and corrections  .
Although  वहीँ  exists  an  inherent  interrelatedness  between  the   अलग  groups  कि  make up the  दण्ड   इंसाफ   प्रणाली   आधारित   on   उनके  crime  deterrence  purpose , each component operates independently from one another .
However  ,   the   न्यायपालिका   is  vested with  the  power  to  make legal determinations regarding the  conduct  of the other two components .
अलावा  from maintaining order  और  service functions , the purpose of policing is  the  investigation of suspected criminal  कार्यकलाप   और   the  referral  of  the results of  investigations  and of suspected criminals to the  न्यायालयों  .
Law enforcement , to varying degrees at  अलग   स्तर  of government  और  in  अलग   एजेंसियों  , is also  commonly  charged with the  जिम्मेदारियों  of deterring criminal activity  और  of  preventing  the successful commission  of  crimes in progress ;  the  service  और  enforcement  of   वारंट  ,  writs  and  अन्य  orders of  the   न्यायालयों  .
Law enforcement agencies are also involved in  providing  first response  to  emergencies  और  other threats to public safety ; the protection of certain public  सुविधाएं   और  infrastructure ; the  मेंटेनेंस  of  पब्लिक  order ; the  सुरक्षा  of public officials ; and the operation of some  correctional   सुविधाएं  (  प्रायः  at the  लोकल  level  )  .
Elmer Figueroa Arce  (  born June 28 ,  1968   )  , best known under  the  stage name Chayanne , is a  प्यूर्टो   rican  Latin pop singer and actor .
as   a  solo artist , Chayanne has released  21   सोलो   एल्बम  and sold  over   15  million albums worldwide  .
``  World War  हल्क  '' is a comic  किताब  crossover  कथानक  that ran  through   a   स्वः   titled  limited  श्रेणी  and various other titles published by  आश्चर्य  Comics  in  2007  ,  featuring  the  Hulk  .
The series consists  of  five main issues titled World War  हल्क  , with Greg Pak as writer and John Romita  ,   jr.  as penciller , and three other limited series : World War Hulk : Front  लकीर  , World  युद्ध  Hulk  :  Gamma  corps   ,   और  World War Hulk  :  X-Men  .
it  also ran through  अनेक  other Marvel  कॉमिक्स  series .
The  प्लाट  is the culmination of a series  of   कार्यक्रम  that began with the Hulk  होने  tricked into space by  the  Illuminati and  a  life model decoy of Nick  फ़्यूरी   ,   the   हल्क  's subsequent  निर्वासन  seen in Planet Hulk and  उसके  imminent return  to  Earth to seek revenge on the Illuminati .
Marion  मिशेल  Morrison  (  born  marion   रॉबर्ट   मॉरिसन  ; May  26  , 1907  –  June 11  ,  1979  )  , better known by  उसके   स्टेज   नाम   जॉन  Wayne ,  थी   an  American film  कर्ता  , director and  निर्माता  .
an  Academy  पुरस्कार  -winner , Wayne  थी  among the top box  दफ्तर  draws for three decades ,  और  was named  the  all-time  शीर्ष  money-making star  .
an  enduring American icon , he epitomized  खुरदरा  masculinity and is  प्रसिद्ध  for his demeanor , including  उसके  distinctive calm  आवाज़  ,  चलना  , and  ऊँचाई   .
Wayne was  born  in  winterset  ,  आयोवा  but his family relocated to the greater Los Angeles area when he  थी  four  सालो   बूढ़ा  .
He found work  at  local film studios when he  खोया   उसके   फ़ुटबॉल   स्कॉलरशिप  to USC as  a  result of  a   bodysurfing   दुर्घटना  .
initially  working  लिये   the  Fox  फिल्मी  Corporation ,  he  mostly appeared  in  small  बिट   भाग  .
His first  अग्रणी  role  आए   in  the widescreen  एपिक  The Big Trail ( 1930  )  ,  जिससे  led  to  leading  भूमिकाएँ   in   numerous  films throughout the  1930s  , many of them  in  the western genre .
His  करियर  rose  to  further heights in 1939 , with  जॉन  Ford  's   stagecoach   बनाना  him an instant  superstar  .
वेन  would go on  to  star in 142  तस्वीरें  ,  primarily  typecast in Western  films  .
Among his best known later films are  the  Quiet  man  ( 1952 ) ,  जिससे   फ़ॉलो   उसे  as an Irish-American  boxer  and his  प्रेम  affair with a  fiery  spinster  निभाई  by Maureen O'Hara ; The Searchers ( 1956 ) , in which he plays a Civil  युद्ध  veteran who  seeks  out his abducted  भांजी  ; Rio  ब्रावो  (  1959  ) ,  playing  a Sheriff  साथ   डीन   मार्टिन   ;   सच्चा  Grit (  1969  ) ,  playing  a humorous U.S  .   मार्शल  who sets  आउट  to  avenge  a man  's  death in  the  role that won Wayne an Academy  पुरस्कार   ;  and The Shootist ( 1976 ) , his final screen performance in which he plays an aging  gunslinger  battling cancer .
वेन   स्थानांतरित  to Orange County , California in the  1960s   ,   और   थी  a prominent Republican in Hollywood , supporting anti-communist positions  .
he   died  of stomach  कर्कट   in  1979 .
in  June 1999 , the American  फिल्मी  Institute named Wayne 13th  among  the Greatest  पुरूष  Screen Legends of All  समय   .
Galileo  गैलिली   (   ;  15 February 1564  –   8   जनवरी  1642 ) ,  थी  an Italian physicist  ,  mathematician ,  astronomer  , and philosopher who played  a   प्रमुख  role  in   the  Scientific  क्रान्ति   .
His achievements include improvements  to  the  दूरदर्शी  and consequent astronomical observations and support  लिये  Copernicanism .
गैलीलियो  has been called the ``  पिता  of modern observational astronomy  ``  , the `` father  of  modern  भौतिकी  ``  ,  the  ``   पिता  of science ''  ,   और   ``   the   पिता  of  आधुनिक   विज्ञान   ''   .
His  योगदान  to observational astronomy include  the   telescopic  confirmation of the phases  of  Venus  ,  the discovery of the four largest  satellites  of Jupiter ( named the Galilean moons in his honour  )  , and the observation and analysis of sunspots .
गैलीलियो  also  worked  in  लागू   विज्ञान  and  प्रौद्योगिकी  , inventing  an  improved military compass and other  यंत्र   .
गैलीलियो   's   championing  of heliocentrism  थी   विवादास्पद  within his lifetime , when most subscribed  to   either   geocentrism  or the Tychonic  प्रणाली  .
he  met with opposition from  खगोलशास्त्रियों  , who doubted  heliocentrism  due to the absence  of  an observed stellar parallax .
The matter was investigated by the Roman Inquisition in  1615  ,  और  they concluded  कि  it  could  be supported as  तभी  a possibility , not an established fact .
Galileo later  defended   उसके  views in Dialogue  concerning   the   दो  Chief World Systems  ,  which  appeared  to attack  पोप  Urban  viii  and thus alienated him and the Jesuits ,  जो  had both supported Galileo up until  इस  point .
He was tried by the  inquisition  , found  ``  vehemently suspect of heresy '' , forced  to  recant , and spent the rest of his life under  हाउस   गिरफ़्तार  .
It  थी  while Galileo was under house  गिरफ़्तार  that he wrote one of  उसके  finest works , Two New Sciences ,  in  which he summarised the work he had  किया  some  चालीस  years earlier ,  on  the two sciences now called  kinematics  and strength of materials .
55 ''  lg   oled  TV  showcased  at CES  2012
प्रोटोटाइप   oled  lighting  फलक  developed  by  Lumiotec
demonstration  of a flexible OLED device
An OLED  (  organic light-emitting diode  )   is  a light-emitting  डायोड  (  led   )  in which  the  emissive electroluminescent layer is a film  of   सशुल्क  compound which emits light in  जवाब   to  an electric current .
This layer  of  organic  सेमीकंडक्टर  is situated between two  electrodes  .
Generally , at least  एक  of these electrodes is transparent .
OLEDs are used  to  create  डिजिटल  displays in devices such  as   टेलीविज़न  screens , computer  मॉनीटर  , portable  प्रणालियों   ऐसे  as mobile phones  ,  handheld games  consoles   और   गुस्से  .
A major  क्षेत्रफल  of research is  the  development of white OLED  डिवाइस   लिये   उपयोग  in solid-state lighting applications  .
वहीँ   हैं  two main families of OLEDs : those based  on  small  अणुओं  and  those  employing polymers  .
Adding mobile ions to an  oled   creates  a light-emitting electrochemical  कोशिका   or  LEC , which has a slightly different  विधि  of operation .
OLED  प्रदर्शक  can use either  passive-matrix  ( PMOLED ) or active-matrix addressing schemes .
Active-matrix OLEDs (  amoled   )   आवश्यकता   a   thin-film   ट्रांजिस्टर  backplane to switch each individual  पिक्सेल  on or off  ,  but allow for higher resolution  और  larger  प्रदर्शक  sizes  .
An  oled   प्रदर्शक  works without a backlight  .
Thus , it  can  display  गहन  black levels and  can  be thinner and lighter than a liquid  क्रिस्टल  display ( LCD ) .
In low ambient light conditions such as a dark room  an  OLED  स्क्रीन  can achieve a  उच्चतर  contrast  अनुपात   than  an LCD ,  whether  the LCD uses  ठंडा   कैथोड  fluorescent lamps  or   led  backlight .
a  carton and a  कांच  of eggnog from  मॉन्ट्रियल  , Canada , showing its French  मुखाग्र   (  English reverse ) and the  फ्रेंच  term lait de  poule   (  literally , `` hen 's  मिल्क  ''  )
Eggnog  ,   or  egg  nog   ,  is a sweetened dairy  -आधारd  beverage traditionally made  साथ  milk and/or cream ,  शुगर  , and  whipped   अंडे  ( which gives it  a   frothy  texture  )  .
Brandy  ,   rum   ,  whisky ,  bourbon   ,  vodka  ,  or a combination of  liquors  are  प्रायः  added  .
The finished serving is often garnished with  a  sprinkling of  मैदान  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  .
It was  भी   ज्ञात   as  the  अंडा  milk  पंच  .
Eggnog is a popular drink  throughout   the  United States and Canada , and is usually  संबद्ध  with Christmas .
Eggnog may be added as a flavoring  to   खाना  or drinks such  as  coffee and tea .
Eggnog as a custard can  भी  be used as an ice cream base .
A pasty (  ,  ) ,  (  sometimes known  in  Britain as  a  Cornish  pasty  , and  in   the  United States as  a   pastie   or  British pasty )  is  a baked pastry , a traditional variety of which  is   विशेषकर  associated with Cornwall , the westernmost county in England  .
It  is   बना   by   रखकर   uncooked  filling typically of meat and vegetables , without meat in vegetarian  संस्करण   ,  on a flat pastry  वृत्त   और  folding it to wrap the  भरना  , crimping the  किनारे   to   रूप  a seal  .
After baking  ,  the result is  a   उठाया   semicircular  comestible  .
The traditional Cornish  pasty   ,  which has Protected Geographical Indication ( PGI  )   औकात   in  Europe  ,  is  भर  with beef  ,   sliced  or diced potato , swede ( also  ज्ञात  as  a   पीला   शलजम  or rutabaga –  referred   to   in  Cornwall  as  turnip )  और   प्याज  , seasoned with  नमक  and pepper ,  और  is baked .
आज  , the  pasty  is the food  सबसे  associated  साथ   कॉर्नवॉल  , it is  regarded  as the  नेशनल   डिश  ,  और  it accounts  लिये  6 % of the Cornish food  अर्थव्यवस्था  .
pasties  with many different fillings are made ; some shops specialise in selling all  sorts   of  pasties  .
The  origins  of  the  pasty  हैं   unclear   ,   हालांकि  there  हैं   अनेक  references to  उन्हें  throughout  ऐतिहासिक  documents  और  fiction .
the  pasty is now popular  world-wide   due   to  the spread  of   cornish   खनिक   ,   और  variations can be found in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , the United States , Mexico and elsewhere  .
the   (  ortho- ) sympathetic  बेचैन   प्रणाली  (  sns  )  is  one of three major parts  of  the autonomic  बेचैन  system : the others being the  enteric  and parasympathetic  प्रणालियों   .
इसके   सामान्य  action is to mobilize  the   देह  's nervous  प्रणाली  fight-or-flight response .
it   is   ,  however , constantly  क्रियाशील   at  a basic  स्तर  to maintain homeostasis .
Secure Digital or ( SD  )   is  a non-volatile  मेमोरी   कार्ड   स्वरूप  for  उपयोग  in portable devices ,  ऐसे  as mobile  फोन  , digital cameras , GPS  नेविगेशन  devices  ,   और   टैब्लेट  computers  .
the  Secure Digital standard is maintained by  the  SD Card Association  (  SDA ) .
SD  technologies  have  महरूम   implemented   in  more than  400  brands across dozens  of  product categories  और  more than 8,000  मॉडल   .
The Secure  डिजिटल  format includes  चार   कार्ड   परिवारों  available in three different  रूप  factors  .
the  four families  हैं  the original Standard-Capacity  (  SDSC  )   ,   the   high-capacity   (  SDHC )  ,  the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC )  ,   और   the  SDIO ,  जिससे  combines  input/output  functions with data storage .
The three form  कारकों  are  the  original size ,  the   ``  mini  ''  size , and the ``  सूक्ष्म  '' size ( see illustration ) .
There are  अनेक  combinations of form factors and device families .
electrically  passive adapters allow the use of a smaller card in a host device built to hold  a  larger  कार्ड  .
Host  डिवाइस   कि  comply with  नए  versions of the specification  provide  backward compatibility and accept older SD cards  ,  but this  आलेख  explains  अनेक  factors that can prevent the use of  a  newer  sd  card:
A  नए  card  may   प्रस्ताव  greater capacity than the host device can handle .
A  नए  card may use a file system the host device can  नहीं  navigate .
उपयोग  of  an  SDIO  कार्ड  requires the  मेजबान  device be designed for the  input/output  functions the card provides  .
the  organization of the card was  बदला  starting with  the   sdhc  family .
Some  विक्रेता  produced  sdsc  cards above 1 GB  पहले   the  SDA had standardized  a   विधि  of doing  so   .
The  sda  uses several trademarked  लोगो  to  enforce   अनुपालन  with its specifications  और   assure  users  of  compatibility .
the  following  is  a List of critics of the  नई  Deal .
डेनियल  Lawrence  व्हिटनी  ( born February 17 ,  1963  ) best  ज्ञात  by his stage  नाम  and character Larry  the  Cable  guy  , is an American stand-up comedian , actor , country music  कलाकार  , voice actor , and former radio personality .
He was one of the members  of  the Blue Collar Comedy Tour , a  कॉमेडी  troupe which included Bill Engvall  ,  Ron White ,  और  Jeff Foxworthy ( with whom he  रै  starred on  ब्लू   कॉलर  TV )  .
Whitney has  released  seven  कॉमेडी   एल्बम  , of  जिससे   तीन   have  been certified gold by the RIAA for shipments  of  500,000 copies .
In  जोड  , he has  स्ट्रक्चर  in three Blue Collar  कॉमेडी   tour-related  movies , as well as in the films  लैरी  the Cable  guy  :  स्वास्थ्य   इंस्पेक्टर  , Delta Farce , and Witless Protection , as  खूब  as voicing Mater  in  the Cars franchise .
Whitney 's catchphrase : `` Git-R-Done !  ''  is  भी  the title  of  his book .
On January  26  ,  2010  ,  the  TV channel History announced that  it  was  ordering   a  series starring Whitney called Only in America with Larry the  केबल  Guy , in which he  होता  explore the country  और   immerse   खुद  in  अलग   lifestyles   ,  jobs , and  शौक   .
the  first episode of the series  aired   on  February 8 , 2011  .
Vitamin D is a  समूह  of  fat-soluble   secosteroids  responsible for  intestinal   अवशोषण  of  कैल्सियम  and phosphate .
In humans , the  सबसे  important related compounds  of  vitamin D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3 .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3  )  and ergocalciferol ( vitamin  d2  ) are unique as they constitute what  we  know as vitamin D  और  can be  ingested  from  the  diet and/or supplements .
The body  can   भी  synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol  )  when sun exposure is adequate  (  hence its  उपनाम  , the  ``  sunshine  विटामिन  '' ) .
हालांकि  vitamin  d  is commonly  पुकारा  a vitamin , it is not actually an  अनिवार्य   dietary   विटामिन   in  the strict sense , as it  can   be  synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals  उजागर  to  धूप   .
(  बिल्लियों  and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D  efficiently  and must  प्राप्त  it  in  their diet .  )
An organic chemical compound ( or related  नियत  of compounds ) is  तभी  scientifically called  a   विटामिन   जब  it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism , and must be obtained from their  आहार  .
However  ,  as with  अन्य  compounds  commonly  called vitamins ,  विटामिन  D  थी   खोजा   in  an effort to find  the  dietary substance  कि   थी   lacking  in a disease  ,   namely  , rickets , the  बाल्यकाल   रूप  of osteomalacia .
Additionally , like other compounds called  विटामिन  , in  the   विकसित  world  विटामिन   d  is added to staple foods , such  as   मिल्क   ,  to  avoid  disease due to deficiency .
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous  संश्लेषण   इससे  exposure  to  sunlight  as   खूब  as intake  इससे  the diet , and it is  believed  that synthesis may  योगदान   generally  to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The evidence indicates that  the   संश्लेषण  of vitamin  d  from sun exposure  works  in  a   प्रतिक्रिया  loop  कि  prevents toxicity  लकिन   ,  because  of   अनिश्चितता  about the cancer  रिस्क   इससे   धूप   ,   no  recommendations are  जारी  by the Institute of Medicine , USA , for the  राशि   of   सूर्य   एक्सपोज़र  required  to  meet  विटामिन   d  requirements  .
Accordingly , the Dietary Reference  intakes  for vitamin D assume  कि  no synthesis occurs and that  सब  of a person 's vitamin D  is   इससे  their diet  ,  although  कि  will rarely occur in practice .
in  the liver vitamin D is  परिवर्तित  to calcidiol ,  जिससे  is also known as  calcifediol   (  INN ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol  ,   or   25-hydroxyvitamin   d—abbreviated  25  (   oh   )  D ; and which  is   the   विशिष्ट  vitamin  d  metabolite  कि  is measured in  सीरम  to  determine   a   व्यक्ति   's  vitamin D status .
Part of the calcidiol  is  converted by the kidneys to calcitriol ,  the  biologically  क्रियाशील  form  of  vitamin  D.   calcitriol  circulates  as  a  हार्मोन  in the blood , regulating  the  concentration  of  calcium and  फास्फेट  in  the  bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone  .
calcidiol   is   भी  converted to calcitriol outside  of  the kidneys for other purposes ,  ऐसे   as   the  proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis of  कोशिकाएं  ; calcitriol  भी   affects   neuromuscular  function  और  inflammation .
परे  its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets ,  the   प्रमाण  for  अन्य   स्वास्थ्य  effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general  जनसांख्यिकी  is inconsistent .
The  बेहतरीन   प्रमाण  of benefit  is  for  अस्थि  health  और  a  घटी   in   मृत्यु  in elderly women  .
मानक  form of the periodic table .
the   रंगों  represent different categories  of   तत्व  explained below .
The periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical elements , organized  on  the basis of their  परमाणु   संख्याएँ  , electron configurations , and recurring chemical properties .
Elements are  प्रस्तुत  in order of  increasing  atomic number ( number of protons  )  .
The standard  रूप  of table comprises an  18   ×   7  grid or  प्रमुख  body of  तत्व   ,   positioned  above a smaller double  पंक्ति   of   तत्व   .
The table can also be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block  to  the  बाएँ  , the p-block to  the  right  ,  the d-block  in  the middle  ,  and  the   f-block  below that  .
The  पंक्ति  of  the   तालिका   हैं  called periods  ;   the   कालम  of the s- , d- , and  p-blocks   हैं  called groups ,  साथ  some of  ये  having  names  such as the halogens  or  the noble gases  .
चूंकि  , by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends ,  कोई   ऐसे  table can be used  to  derive relationships between the  गुण   of  the elements  और   भविष्यवाणी  the properties of  नई  , yet to be discovered  or  synthesized , elements .
as  a result , a  आवधिक  table—whether  in  the  मानक  form or  कुछ  other  variant—provides  a useful  फ्रेमवर्क  for analyzing chemical behavior , and such tables  हैं   widely  used  in  chemistry  और   अन्य  sciences .
Although precursors exist ,  dmitri  Mendeleev  is  generally  credited   साथ   the  publication  ,   in   1869  ,  of  the first widely recognized periodic table .
he  developed his table to illustrate periodic trends in the properties of the then-known elements .
Mendeleev also  पूर्वानुमानित  some properties of then-unknown elements  कि  would be expected to fill gaps in this  तालिका  .
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the elements in question were subsequently discovered  .
Mendeleev 's periodic table  रै   चूंकि  been expanded and  परिष्कृत  with the discovery  or  synthesis of further  नई  elements  और  the development  of  new theoretical models to explain  रासायनिक  behavior .
All elements from atomic  संख्याएँ  1 ( hydrogen )  to  118 (  ununoctium  ) have  महरूम  discovered  or   synthesized   .
The elements from  1   to  98  (  californium  )  have  महरूम   मिला  to exist naturally ,  हालांकि   कुछ  are  मिला   तभी  in trace  amounts   और  were  initially  discovered  by  synthesis in laboratories  .
The elements  बाद   98  have only been synthesized in  laboratories   .
Production of elements  परे   ununoctium  is being pursued , with the question  of  how the periodic table  may  need  to   be   परिवर्धित   to   accommodate  any such additions being a  पदार्थ   of  ongoing debate .
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring  तत्व  have also been produced in  laboratories  .
Minimum wage by  u.S.  state  और  U.S. territory ( American Samoa ,  गुआम  , Puerto  रीको  ,  वर्जिन   आइलैंड्स  ) ,  as   of   jan.  1  ,   2013  .
In the United  राज्य   ,   मजदूर   हैं  generally entitled to be paid no less  than  the statutory minimum wage .
The federal government mandates  a  nationwide minimum wage level of  $  7.25 per hour , while some states and  municipalities  have set minimum  मजदूरी  levels higher  than  the federal level ,  साथ  the  उच्चतम  state minimum  मजदूरी  being $ 9.19 per  घंटा  in  वॉशिंगटन   as  of  2013  .
Among  those   सशुल्क  by  the   घंटा  in 2012 ,  1.6   लाख  were reported as earning exactly  the  prevailing  संघीय  minimum wage .
परिचय  2.0  लाख   यहूद  reported as earning wages  नीचे   the  minimum  .
Together , these 3.6 million  मजदूर  with  मजदूरी  at  or  below  the   न्यूनतम  made up  4.7   प्रतिशत  of all hourly-paid workers .
a   चयन   of  Bourbons and Tennessee whiskeys offered at a liquor store in Decatur , Georgia
Evan Williams bourbon whiskey
Bourbon whiskey is a type of American whiskey – a  barrel-aged  distilled spirit  बना  primarily from corn .
The name of the spirit  गर्भाशयी  from  इसके  historical association  साथ  an area  ज्ञात   as  Old  bourbon   ,   around  what is now Bourbon  काउंटी   ,  Kentucky ( which ,  in  turn  ,  was named after the  फ्रेंच  House of Bourbon royal family  )  .
it  has been produced since the  18th  century .
While  it  may  be  made anywhere  in  the United  राज्य  ,  it  is strongly associated with the American South  in   सामान्य  , and Kentucky in particular .
The Mona Lisa  (   la   gioconda  or La Joconde  )  is a half-length portrait of  a  woman by  the  Italian artist  लियोनार्डो  da Vinci  ,  which has been  acclaimed  as  ``  the  बेहतरीन  known , the most visited , the most written  परिचय   ,  the  सबसे  sung  परिचय  , the most parodied work of  आर्ट   in   the  world . ''
the  painting ,  विचार   to  be a portrait of Lisa Gherardini ,  the  wife  of  Francesco del Giocondo , is in  आयल   on   a   poplar   फलक  , and is believed  to   have  been  चित्रित  between 1503  और   1506  .
It was acquired  by  King  फ्रांसिस  I of France  और  is now the property of the  फ्रेंच   गणतंत्र  , on permanent display  at  the Musée du Louvre in Paris since 1797  .
The ambiguity  of   the  subject  's  expression , which  is  frequently described  as  enigmatic ,  the   monumentality  of  the   संयोजन  , the  हल्का  modeling  of  forms and  the  atmospheric illusionism  यहूद  novel qualities that  have  contributed to the continuing  fascination  and study of  the   कार्य  .
Robert  एलन   पामर  ( 19 January  1949   –   26  September  2003   )   ,  was an English  singer-songwriter  and musician  .
he  was  ज्ञात   लिये   उसके  distinctive voice and the  eclectic  mix of  musical  styles on his albums  ,  combining soul , jazz  ,  rock , pop  ,  reggae  और  blues  .
he   मिला  success both in  उसके  solo career and in the  musical  act The Power  स्टेशन  , and had Top 10 songs in both the UK and the US  .
His iconic  म्यूज़िक  videos by Terence Donovan  लिये  the hits ``  आदी   to   प्रेम  `` and  ``  Simply  irresistible  `` featured identically dressed dancing women with pale  चेहरों   ,  dark eye makeup and bright red lipstick  ,   जिससे  resembled  the   महिलाओं  in the  आर्ट  of Patrick Nagel , an artist popular  in   the  1980s  .
Sharp-suited , his involvement in the  म्यूज़िक  industry commenced in the 1960s , covered  पाँच   दशकों   और  included a spell  साथ  Vinegar Joe .
Palmer received  a   क्रमांक  of awards  throughout  his career , including  दो  Grammy Awards  लिये   बेहतरीन  Male Rock Vocal Performance ,  an  MTV  वीडियो   म्यूज़िक  Award , and was  twice  nominated for  the  Brit Award for Best  अंग्रेजों  Male .
computed  tomography  एंजियोग्राफी  (  cta   )   is  a computed tomography  तकनीक   प्रयुक्त  to visualize  arterial  and venous vessels throughout the body  .
इस  ranges from arteries serving the brain  to  those bringing blood to the lungs , kidneys , arms  और   टाँगे   .
the  Champs-Élysées decorated  साथ   ध्वज  for Bastille Day
Horseman  of   the   फ्रेंच  Republican Guard during  the  2007  सैन्य  parade on the Champs-Élysées .
prise  de la Bastille by Jean-Pierre-Louis-Laurent Houel
bastille  Day  is  the  नाम  given in English-speaking countries  to  the French National Day  ,  which is celebrated on  the  14th  of  July each  साल  .
In  फ़्रांस   ,  it is formally  पुकारा  La Fête Nationale ( ; The National  जश्न  ) and  commonly  Le quatorze juillet (  ;   the  fourteenth  of   जुलाई  ) .
It commemorates the 1790  fête  de la  fédération  , held on  the  first anniversary of the storming of the Bastille on 14  जुलाई   1789   ;  the anniversary of the  storming   of  the Bastille fortress-prison  थी  seen as a symbol of the uprising of the  आधुनिक   स्वदेश   ,  and of the  reconciliation   of   सब  the French  अंदर   the   संवैधानिक  monarchy  जिससे  preceded the First Republic ,  दौरान   the  French Revolution .
festivities  and official  ceremonies  are  आयोजित  all over  फ़्रांस   .
The  oldest  and largest regular military parade  in  Europe is held on  the   morning   of   14   जुलाई  ,  on  the  champs-élysées   एवेन्यू   in  Paris in front  of   the  President of the  गणतंत्र  ,  फ्रेंच  officials and foreign guests  .
the  United States of America ( USA or  u.s.A.  ) , commonly called the United States  (   us  or  u.S.  )  or  America  ,  is a federal republic  consisting   of  fifty states and a  संघीय   ज़िला   .
The lower  forty-eight  contiguous states  और   the  federal  ज़िला  of Washington ,  d.C.   हैं  in central North  अमेरिका   between   कनाडा  and  मैक्सिको   .
the  state of  अलास्का  is west of Canada  और  east of Russia across  the   बेरिंग   जलसन्धि  , and the  राज्य  of  हवाई  is  in   the   mid-north  Pacific .
the  country  भी   रै  five  आबादी   और   नौ  unpopulated  territories   in  the  प्रशांत   और  the Caribbean .
At  3.79   लाख   वर्गाकार   मील  ( 9.83 million km2  )  and with around 315 million people , the United States is  the   third-  or fourth-largest  देश  by  कुल   क्षेत्रफल  and the third-largest by  दोनो   जमीन  area and population .
It is  एक   of   the  world 's most ethnically  विविध  and  multicultural  nations  ,  the product  of  large-scale immigration from many countries .
The geography  और  climate of  the   u.S.  is also extremely diverse , with  रेगिस्तान  ,  मैदान  , forests  ,  and mountains that are home to a  चौड़ी  variety  of  species  .
Paleoindians  migrated   इससे  Asia  to  what  is  now the United  राज्य   मेनलैंड  around 15,000 years  पहले  .
After 1500  ,   बूढ़ा  World  रोगों  introduced  by  Europeans greatly  घटाया  their populations .
European colonization began around 1600 and  आए  mostly from England .
The United States  उभरा   इससे  thirteen  अंग्रेजों   colonies  located along the  अटलांटिक  seaboard  .
विवादों  between  ग्रेट  Britain  और  the American colonies  led   to  the American Revolution .
On July 4  ,   1776  , delegates  इससे  the 13 colonies unanimously  जारी  the  घोषणा  of Independence , which established the United States of  अमेरिका   .
The American  क्रांतिकारी  War , which ended with the recognition of independence of the United States from the Kingdom of Great Britain  ,  was the first successful war  of   स्वतंत्रता   विरूद्ध  a European colonial empire .
The current  संविधान   थी  adopted on September 17 ,  1787  ; twenty-seven Amendments have since been  added  to the  संविधान   .
The  पहला  ten  amendments  ,  collectively   नामित  the Bill of Rights , were ratified  in  1791 and guarantee  अनेक  fundamental  सिविल   अधिकारों   और  freedoms  .
Driven  by  the doctrine of  manifest   नियति  ,  the  United  राज्य  embarked on a vigorous expansion across North America throughout the 19th  सदी  .
This  शामिल   displacing  native  जनजातियों   ,   acquiring  new territories ,  और  gradually admitting new  राज्य  .
The American  सिविल  War  ended   legalized   गुलामी   in   the  United States  .
By the end of the nineteenth century  ,  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  extended into the Pacific Ocean ,  और  its economy was the world  's  largest  .
The Spanish–American War and  पुष्टि   the  country  's   औकात  as  a   वैश्विक  military power  .
The  संयुक्त  States emerged  इससे  as a  वैश्विक  superpower  ,  the  पहला  country with nuclear weapons , and  a  permanent member of  the  United  राष्ट्र   सुरक्षा  Council .
the   समाप्त   of  the Cold War and the dissolution  of  the  सोवियत   संघ  left the United States as the  एकमात्र  superpower .
The United States  is  a developed country and has the world 's largest national economy ,  साथ  an estimated  2012   जीडीपी   of  $  15.6   खरब   19   %  of global GDP at purchasing-power parity , as of 2011  .
The per capita  जीडीपी  of  the  U.S.  थी  the world 's  sixth-highest   as  of 2010 ,  हालांकि  America 's wealth inequality was  भी   क्रमित   उच्चतम  among  oecd  countries by the World  बैंको  .
The economy is  fueled  by  an   प्रचुरता  of natural resources  ,  a well-developed infrastructure , and  ऊँची   उत्पादकता  ; and while its economy  is  considered  post-industrial  it continues  to  be one of  the  world 's largest manufacturers .
the  country accounts  लिये   39   %   of  global  सैन्य  spending ,  और  is a leading economic , political  ,  and  सांस्कृतिक  force in  the   संसार  , as well  as   a  leader  in  scientific research  और  technological innovation  .
The NCAA Men 's Division  i  Basketball  चैंपियनशिप  is a  single-elimination  tournament  निभाई  each spring  in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  फिलहाल  featuring 68  कॉलेज  basketball teams  ,  to determine the national championship  of  the major  कॉलेज  basketball teams .
the  tournament ,  व्यवस्थित  by the  नेशनल  Collegiate Athletic Association (  ncaa  ) , was created  दौरान  1939 by the National Association of Basketball Coaches , and  थी  the idea  of  Ohio  राज्य   विश्वविद्यालयों  coach Harold  olsen  .
Played mostly during March  ,  it  is   ज्ञात   informally  as March Madness or the Big Dance , and has become one of the  सबसे  famous annual  sporting  events  in  the United States .
the  NCAA has credited Bob Walsh  of  the  सिएटल   आयोजन  Committee for starting  the  March Madness celebration during  1984  .
The tournament teams include champions from  31  Division  i  conferences ( which  प्राप्त   स्वचालित   बोलियों   )   ,  and 37 teams which are awarded at-large  berths   .
These  ``  at-large '' teams  हैं  chosen by an  ncaa  selection  कमेटी  ,  as  detailed below .
The 64 teams are divided into four regions and  व्यवस्थित  into  a  single elimination `` bracket  ''   ,   जिससे   predetermines   ,   जब  a team  विन्स  a game , which team it will  फेस  next .
प्रत्येक   टोली   is  ``  seeded  '' ,  or  ranked ,  भीतर  its region .
After  an  initial four  खेल  between eight  lower-ranked  teams  ,  the  टूर्नामेंट   occurs   दौरान   the  course of  तीन   सप्ताहांत  , at  pre-selected   न्यूट्रल  sites around the United  राज्य  .
Lower-ranked  टीमों   हैं  placed  in  the  कोष्ठक  against higher ranked teams .
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of  the   टीमों  , from a round of  64   ,   to  a  ``  Sweet  सोलह  '' ,  और  for the last weekend  of  the  टूर्नामेंट  a Final  चार  ; the  फाइनल  Four is  प्रायः  played during the first weekend of  अप्रैल   .
These  चार   टीमों  , one  इससे  each  प्रदेश  , then compete in one  स्थान  for the national  चैंपियनशिप  .
the  tournament  रै   महरूम  at  तनिक  partially  televised   चूंकि   1969  .
presently  , the games  हैं  reported  by  CBS , TBS , TNT , and  trutv  by the  trade-name  NCAA  कूच  Madness  .
Since 2011 , all games are  उपलब्धियाँ   लिये  viewing  देशभर  .
As television coverage  रै  grown , so too has the tournament 's  लोकप्रियता   .
Presently , millions of Americans `` fill out a bracket ''  ,  predicting  विजेता  of all 67 games .
साथ   11  national titles  ,  UCLA has  the   रिकार्ड  for the most NCAA  मेन  's Division I Basketball  championships   ;  John Wooden coached  ucla  to 10 of its  11  titles .
the  University of Kentucky is second  ,   साथ  8  नेशनल  titles , while Indiana  विश्वविद्यालयों  and the University  of   उत्तर  Carolina are tied for  तीसरा   साथ   5  national titles  .
Duke University  बाँधने   पांचवां   साथ  4 national titles .
a  sample  of  synthetic  मोटर   आयल
सिंथेटिक   आयल  is a  स्नेहक  consisting  of   रासायनिक  compounds  कि   हैं  artificially made  (  synthesized ) .
Synthetic lubricants  can   be  manufactured  using   chemically  modified  पेट्रोलियम   components  rather  than  whole crude oil , but  can   भी  be synthesized from other raw materials .
सिंथेटिक  oil is used as  a  substitute for lubricant refined from petroleum when operating  in  extremes of temperature  ,  because  ,  in general  ,  it provides superior  mechanical  and chemical properties than  those  found in traditional  खनिज  oils .
वायुयान  jet engines , for example , require  the  use  of  synthetic  oils  , whereas aircraft piston  इंजन  do not .
Jackass is  an  American reality series  ,  originally shown on MTV  इससे  2000 to  2002  , featuring people performing various dangerous , crude  self-injuring  stunts and pranks  .
the  show served  as  a launchpad for the television and acting  करियर  of Bam Margera  ,  Steve-O , and  भी   जॉनी  Knoxville ,  जो  previously had  तभी  a few  नाबालिग  acting roles .
Since  2002  , three  बेवकूफ़  films  have   महरूम   उत्पादित   और  released by  एमटीवी  corporate sibling  सर्वोपरि  Pictures , continuing the franchise after its  चलाएं  on television .
The show sparked several spin-offs  सहित  Viva  la  Bam ,  wildboyz  , Homewrecker , Dr. Steve-O and  blastazoid  .
the  show  लगाई  # 68  on  Entertainment Weekly  ``   नई  TV Classics '' list .
roseanne  Cherrie Barr  (  born November 3  ,   1952   )  is  an   अमरीकी   अभिनेत्री  , comedienne ,  लेखक  ,  टेलीविज़न  producer , director  ,  and 2012  अध्यक्षीय   nominee  of the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  -based  सलाम  and Freedom Party .
Barr began her career in stand-up  कॉमेडी  at clubs before gaining fame for  उसके  role in the sitcom Roseanne .
The  दिखाएँ  was  a  hit and lasted  नौ  seasons ,  इससे  1988 to  1997  .
She won both an  एमी  and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress for her work on the show .
Barr had crafted a  ``  fierce  working-class  domestic goddess  ''  persona in the eight years preceding her sitcom  और  wanted to do a  यथार्थवादी  show about a strong mother who was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism  .
The  पोती  of immigrants  इससे   यूरोपीय  and Russia , Barr was the oldest  of  four  children  in a  working-class  Jewish  नमक   झील  City family  ;  she was also active  in  the  lds  Church .
In 1974  ,  she married Bill Pentland , with whom  वो  had three children , before divorcing  in  1990 and marrying comedian Tom Arnold for four  सालो  .
Controversy arose when  वो   संग  ``  the  Star-Spangled Banner  ``  off-key at a 1990 nationally aired baseball game  ,  followed  by  grabbing her  crotch   और  spitting .
बाद  her  sitcom  ended  ,  she launched her own talk show ,  the   roseanne   दिखाएँ  , which aired from  1998  to 2000 .
In 2005 ,  वो  returned to stand-up comedy with a world  दौरे  .
In  2011   ,  she starred in an  unscripted  TV show ,  roseanne  's  nuts  , that lasted  इससे  July to September of that year  ,  about  उसके  life on a Hawaiian farm  .
in  early  2012  ,  barr  announced her candidacy for the Presidential nomination of the  ग्रीन  Party  .
barr  lost the  नामांकन  to Jill  स्टीन   .
She then sought  the  presidential  नामांकन   of  the  सलाम  and Freedom Party ,  जिससे  she  जीती   on  August 4 ,  2012  .
Barr received 61,971  मत  in  the   सामान्य  election  ,   रखकर  sixth overall .
francesco  Albani  's  17th century Baptism of Christ  is  a typical depiction with the sky opening and the Holy Spirit descending  as  a dove .
the  baptism of Jesus  marks   the  beginning  of  his  पब्लिक  ministry .
This event is recorded in  the   canonical  gospels of Matthew  ,   चिह्नित   और  Luke .
John  's  gospel does not  describe  Jesus  '   बपतिस्मा  , but John  the  Baptist  करता   गवाही  of the  अन्य   बाते  in .
In the New Testament  ,   जॉन   the  Baptist  preached  the baptism  of  repentance  लिये  the remission of sins ( ) , and  घोषित  himself a  forerunner  of he that would  baptize  `` with the Holy Ghost and with  आग   ''  ( ) .
in  so doing he was preparing the way for Jesus .
Jesus came  to  the Jordan River where he was baptized  by  John .
The baptismal scene includes the heavens opening , a dove-like descent  of  the Holy  स्पिरिट  ,  और   a   आवाज़  from heaven saying  ,   ``  This  is  my  beloved   बेटे  , in whom I am well  प्रसन्न  . ''
Most modern scholars view the  फैक्ट  that Jesus  थी  baptized by John as an historical  इवेंट   to  which a high  उपाधि  of  certainty  can  be   आबंटित  .
साथ  with the crucifixion  of  Jesus most scholars  दृश्य   it   as  one of the two historically certain facts about him  ,  and often  उपयोग   it  as the starting  अंक   लिये  the study  of   the  historical Jesus  .
The baptism  is  one of the five major milestones  in  the gospel narrative  of  the life of Jesus , the  अन्य   होने   the  Transfiguration ,  crucifixion  ,  क़यामत  , and  आरोहण  .
सबसे  Christian denominations view  the  baptism  of  Jesus as  an  important event  और  a basis  लिये  the  ईसाई   रीति  of  बपतिस्मा  (  देखिए  also ) .
In Eastern Christianity ,  यीशु  ' baptism is commemorated on 6 January , the  feast  of Epiphany  .
In the Roman Catholic Church ,  the  Anglican  नियाज़   ,  the Lutheran Churches and some other  पश्चिमी   denominations   ,   it   is  recalled on a day within the following week , the feast of the  बपतिस्मा  of the Lord .
in  Roman Catholicism , the  बपतिस्मा   of  Jesus is  एक   of  the Luminous  रहस्यों  sometimes added to the  rosary  .
It  is  a  trinitarian  feast  in  the Eastern  परंपरागत  Churches .
Methylcobalamin (  दिखाया  ) is a form of vitamin B12 .
physically   it  resembles the other forms  of  vitamin B12  ,  occurring as dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions  in  water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin  b12   or  vitamin  b-12  , also called cobalamin , is a water-soluble vitamin  साथ  a key  भूमिका  in the normal functioning of the  दिमाग  and nervous system  ,  and for  the   गठन  of blood .
It is  एक  of the eight  b  vitamins .
It  is  normally involved in the metabolism of every  कोशिका   of   the  human body  ,  especially affecting DNA synthesis and  विनियमन   ,   लकिन   भी  fatty acid  संश्लेषण  and energy production .
neither  fungi  ,  plants , nor animals are  सक्षम   of   producing  vitamin B12 .
तभी  bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its  संश्लेषण   ,  although many  भोजन  are  a  natural source  of  B12  क्युकी  of bacterial  symbiosis  .
The  विटामिन  is the largest and  सबसे   structurally  complicated  विटामिन  and  can   be  produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis  .
विटामिन  B12 consists of a class of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ) ,  सब  of which have vitamin activity  .
It contains the biochemically rare  तत्व  cobalt .
जैवसंश्लेषण  of  the  basic structure of the vitamin is  संपन्नता  only by  जीवाणु   (  which  प्रायः   उपज   hydroxocobalamin  ) , but conversion  between  different forms of the  विटामिन  can be  संपन्नता  in the human body .
A common  semi-synthetic  form  of   the  vitamin  ,  cyanocobalamin ,  करता  not occur  in  nature ,  लकिन  is produced from  बैक्टीरियल   hydroxocobalamin   और  then used in  अनेक  pharmaceuticals and supplements , and as a  खाना   योगात्मक  , because of  इसके   स्थिरता   और  lower production  लागत  .
In  the  body  it   is   परिवर्तित   to  the human physiological  फ़ॉर्म   methylcobalamin  and  adenosylcobalamin  , leaving behind the  साइनाइड  , albeit in minimal concentration .
More  recently  , hydroxocobalamin ,  methylcobalamin  , and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological  उत्पाद  and food supplements .
The extra utility  of  these is currently debated  .
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship  to   the  disease pernicious anemia , which is an autoimmune  बीमारी  in which parietal cells  of  the  पेट  responsible for  secreting  intrinsic factor are destroyed  .
मूलभूत  factor is crucial for  the  normal absorption of  b12  , so a lack of  मूलभूत  factor  ,  as seen in pernicious anemia , causes a vitamin B12 deficiency  .
Many other subtler kinds  of   विटामिन   b12   कमियां   और  their biochemical effects have  चूंकि  been elucidated .
Full Metal  जैकेट  is a 1987 war film  उत्पादित   ,   निर्देशित   और   co-written  by Stanley Kubrick .
It is an adaptation  of  Gustav  hasford   's   1979  novel The Short-Timers and  सितारों  Matthew Modine , Vincent  d'onofrio  ,  R.  Lee Ermey  ,   arliss  Howard , and Adam  baldwin  .
The  फिल्मी  follows a platoon of U.S. Marines through their training and the experiences of  दो   of  the platoon 's Marines  in   the  Tet Offensive  दौरान  the  वियतनाम  War .
The film 's title refers to the  पूरा  metal  जैकेट   गोली   प्रयुक्त   by  infantry riflemen .
The film received  नाजुक   acclaim  .
It received  an   अकादमी  Award  नामांकन  for Best Adapted  पटकथा  for Kubrick  ,  Michael Herr and Gustav  hasford  .
in  2001  ,  the American  फिल्मी  Institute placed Full  मेटल   जैकेट  at # 95  in  their ``  एएफआई  's 100 Years ... 100  thrills  ``  पोल   .
TMZ is a  हस्ती  news website that debuted on November  8  , 2005 .
It was a collaboration between AOL and  telepictures  Productions  ,   a   प्रभाग  of  warner   भाईs.  ,  जबतक  Time Warner divested AOL in 2009 .
However , it remained affiliated with AOL News and  रै  the  एओएल  News logo affixed in  the   अपर   सही  corner .
the  name TMZ  स्टैंड  for the  ऐतिहासिक  ``  स्टुडियो   मण्डल   ``  or 30-mile zone radius from the intersection  of   वेस्ट  Beverly Boulevard and North La Cienega Boulevard  in  Los Angeles  .
TMZ 's  मैनेजिंग   एडिटर   is  Harvey Levin , a lawyer-turned-journalist  जो  was previously a legal expert for the Los  एंजिल्स   टेलीविज़न   स्टेशन   kcbs-tv  .
the  site claims  कि  it  करता  not pay for stories or interviews ; however  ,  Levin  रै  admitted  कि  TMZ does `` sometimes pay  स्त्रोत   लिये  leads on  कहानियां  '' .
levin   रै  stated that `` everything is  शोधकार्य  and  vetted   लिये   सटीकता  . ''
A companion TV series  ,  TMZ  on  TV , debuted on September 10 , 2007 .
Scream 3  is  a 2000 American  slasher  film created  by   केविन   विलियमसन  ,  निर्देशित  by Wes Craven and written by Ehren Kruger  ,  starring  neve  Campbell  ,   courteney  Cox  arquette  and David  arquette   .
It was released  on  February 4 , 2000 as the third installment in  the   चीख  film series .
the  events of the story are  नियत  three years after those of Scream 2  और  follows Sidney Prescott ( Campbell )  जो   रै  gone  into  self-imposed isolation following  the   कार्यक्रम  of the previous  दो   films   लकिन  is  drawn  to  हॉलीवुड   बाद  a new  ghostface   begins   हत्या  the  डाल  of the film  भीतर  a film `` Stab 3 ''  .
चीख  3 combines  the   हिंसा  of the  slasher  genre with  कॉमेडी  and `` whodunit ``  रहस्य  while satirizing  the  cliché  of  film trilogies  .
नापसंद   the  previous Scream films ,  वहीँ   थी  an increased emphasis on comedic elements and the violence  और   हॉरर   थी  reduced in  जवाब  to  increased  public scrutiny about violence in media following  the  Columbine High School massacre .
the  film  थी  the  concluding  chapter of  the   चीख   श्रेणी  until it was revived with a  sequel   ,  Scream 4 ,  in  2011 .
Williamson provided  a  five-page  रूपरेखा   लिये   दो  sequels to  चीख  when  auctioning  his  असली  script  ,  hoping to entice bidders with the potential  of  buying a  मताधिकार   .
Williamson 's commitments to other projects meant  he  was unable to  develop  a complete  स्क्रिप्ट   लिये  Scream 3  और  writing duties were undertaken  by   ehren  Kruger who  discarded   much   of  Williamson 's  टीप  .
Craven and Marco Beltrami returned to  सीधा   और  score the film respectively  as  they had  साथ  the  पिछला  two series entries  .
उत्पादन  was troubled with script rewrites , with pages sometimes only ready  on  the day  of   फिल्मांकन  ,  और  scheduling  कठिनाइयों  with the main  डाल  .
Scream 3 performed  दोनो  financially and critically worse than its preceding  films  ,  कमाई  over  $   161   लाख  and with many  आलोचकों   claiming  that  the  film had become what  चीख   originally  ``  spoofed  `` .
despite  negative  आलोचना  the film did  प्राप्त   तारीफ़   साथ  reviewers  कॉलिंग  it the  पूर्ण  end  to  the  चीख  trilogy .
as  of  2012   ,  the film is currently the  क्रमांक  3 highest-grossing  slasher-film  in North America ,  following  Scream  at  number  1   और  Scream 2 at number  2  .
the   फिल्मी  's soundtrack was  well-received   ,  spending fourteen  सप्ताह  on the Billboard 200  और   reaching  a high of # 32 .
Shoulder  impingement   सिंड्रोम  , also  पुकारा  painful arc syndrome ,  supraspinatus   सिंड्रोम  , swimmer 's  कंधे   ,  and  thrower  's shoulder , is a clinical syndrome which  occurs  when the tendons  of  the rotator cuff muscles become  irritated   और  inflamed as they  pass  through the subacromial space ,  the  passage beneath the  acromion  .
इस   can  result in  पीड़ा   ,  weakness  और  loss  of  movement at the shoulder .
JLA  थी  a monthly comic book  प्रकाशित  by  dc  Comics  इससे  January  1997   to  April 2006 featuring the  इंसाफ   लीग   .
the  colonial history  of  the  संयुक्त  States covers the history  of  European settlements from  the   प्रारंभ   of  colonization of America until their incorporation into the  संयुक्त   राज्य   .
in   the  late  16th   सदी   ,  England , France , Spain and the Netherlands launched  प्रमुख  colonization  कार्यक्रम  in eastern North America .
Small  जल्दी  attempts—such as  the   अंग्रेज़ी   खोया   उपनिवेश   of   roanoke  —often disappeared ; everywhere the death rate of  the  first arrivals was  बहुत  high .
Nevertheless successful colonies were  स्थापित  .
European settlers came  इससे  a variety of  सोशल  and religious groups .
No  aristocrats  settled permanently  ,   लकिन  a number  of  adventurers  ,  soldiers , farmers  ,   और  tradesmen  arrived  .
Diversity was an  अमरीकी  characteristic  as  the Dutch of New Netherland ,  the  Swedes and  finns  of New Sweden ,  the  English  quakers   of   पेन्सिलवेनिया  , the English Puritans of New England , the English settlers of Jamestown , and the `` worthy poor '' of  जॉर्जिया   ,  came to  the  new continent  और  built colonies with distinctive social  ,   धार्मिक  ,  राजनैतिक   और  economic styles .
Occasionally  एक  colony took  कंट्रोल   of  another (  दौरान  wars  between  their European parents ) .
Only in  नोवा  Scotia ( now part of  कनाडा  ) did the conquerors expel the previous  colonists  .
Instead they  सब   जिया   पक्ष  by side in peace .
There were no major civil wars among the 13  colonies  , and  the  two chief armed rebellions ( in Virginia in 1676 and  in  New York  in  1689–91 )  यहूद  short-lived failures .
Wars  between  the French and  the   british—the  French and Indian  युद्धों  and Father  rale  's War —were recurrent ,  और  involved  french-support   लिये  Wabanaki  confederacy   हमले  on the frontiers .
By 1760 France was  पराजित  and the British seized its colonies .
The four distinct  regions  were : New  इंग्लैण्ड  , the  मध्य  Colonies , the Chesapeake Bay Colonies  (   अपर   दक्षिण   )   और  the Lower South  .
Some historians  add  a fifth  प्रदेश  ,  the  Frontier , which was never  separately  organized  .
by   the   समय  European settlers arrived around 1600–1650  ,  the majority of  the  Native Americans living in  the  eastern United States  था  been decimated  by  new diseases  ,   introduced  to them decades  पहले  by explorers  और   sailors  .
See  समयरेखा  of  औपनिवेशिक  America for list of  ऐतिहासिक  events .
ग्लोरिया  Laura Vanderbilt  (  born February 20 , 1924  )   is  an American  कलाकार   ,  author , actress , heiress , and  socialite  most noted as an early  डेवलपर   of   पंक्तियां  blue jeans  .
She  is   a  member of the prominent Vanderbilt family of New  यॉर्क  and the mother  of  CNN 's  एंडरसन   कूपर  .
Greece (  रोमनाइजेशन  of Greek|  )  ,  officially   the   हैलेनिक  Republic  (   '   )  , is a country in Southeast  यूरोपीय  .
According  to  the  2011  census , Greece 's population  is  around 11  लाख  .
Athens  is   the  nation 's capital and largest  नगर  , its urban area  भी   सहित  Piraeus .
Greece is strategically located  at   the  crossroads  of  Europe , Asia ,  the  Middle  ईस्ट  , and Africa ,  और  has land borders with Albania , the  गणतंत्र  of  मकदूनिया   और  Bulgaria to the north , and Turkey to the northeast .
the   ईजियन  Sea lies  to  the east  of   मेनलैंड   यूनानियों  , the  आयोनियन  Sea to the  वेस्ट  , and the Mediterranean Sea to the south  .
Greece has the 11th  longest   तटरेखा   in  the world at in length ,  featuring  a  विशाल   क्रमांक  of islands ( approximately  1,400   ,  of which  227  are inhabited  )  ,  सहित   क्रेट   ,  the Dodecanese , the Cyclades , and the Ionian Islands among  अन्य  .
Eighty percent  of  Greece consists of mountains , of  जिससे  Mount Olympus is the highest  at  .
Modern Greece traces  इसके  roots  to  the civilization of Ancient Greece  ,   generally  considered the cradle of Western civilization .
As such  ,   it  is  the  birthplace of democracy , Western philosophy , the Olympic  खेल  , Western literature and historiography  ,  political science , major scientific and mathematical principles , and  पश्चिमी   नाटक   ,  including  दोनो   त्रासदी   और  comedy .
This legacy is partly  reflected  in  the  seventeen  युनेस्को  World Heritage Sites located  in   यूनानियों  ,  रैंकिंग  it 7th in  यूरोपीय   और  13th  in   the  world  .
The modern Greek state was established in 1830 , following  the  Greek War of Independence  .
Greece  is  a  founding  member  of  the  संयुक्त  Nations , has been  a   सदस्य  of  कया  is  अभी  the European  संघ  since  1981   (  and the eurozone since 2001 ) , and has  महरूम  a  सदस्य  of  नाटो   चूंकि  1952  .
Greece is  a  developed country with an  उन्नत  ,  high-income  economy  और  very high  मानकों   of  living  ,   सहित  the world 's  21st  highest quality of life as of 2010 .
यूनानियों  's economy is  भी  the  largest  in the Balkans , where Greece  is  an important regional  निवेशकों  .
A prime meridian is a meridian , i.e  .  a  लकीर  of longitude , at  जिससे  longitude is defined to be  0°   .
A  प्रधान  meridian and its  विपरीत  in a 360°-system ,  the  180th  मध्याह्न  ( at  180°  longitude ) ,  रूप  a great circle .
This great  वृत्त  divides the  गोला   ,  e.g  .  the  धरती   ,  into two hemispheres  .
If one uses  दिशानिर्देश  of East and West  इससे  a defined prime  मध्याह्न  , then  वे   can  be called  पूर्वी  Hemisphere and Western Hemisphere .
Gerardus Mercator in  उसके  Atlas  cosmographicae   (   1595   )  uses a prime  मध्याह्न  somewhere  बंद  to  25°w  ,  गुजर   बस  to the west  of   सांता   मरिया   द्वीप  in  the  Atlantic .
उसके  180th meridian  रनों   साथ  the Strait of Anián ( Bering Strait  )
A prime meridian is ultimately arbitrary  ,  unlike an equator , which is determined  by  the axis  of  rotation—and various conventions  have  been used or advocated  in  different regions  और  throughout history .
Minka Dumont Kelly ( born  minka  Dumont Dufay ;  जून  24  ,  1980  )  is  an   अमरीकी  actress  .
She  is  perhaps  बेहतरीन  known for her roles  in  Charlie 's Angels  ,  Friday Night  लाइट्स  , and The Roommate .
R.O.B . ( Robotic  ऑपरेटिंग  Buddy  )  ,  released  in Japan as the , is an accessory for the Nintendo Entertainment  प्रणाली  ( NES ) .
It was released  in   जुलाई   1985  in Japan and  बाद   कि   साल  in North America .
it   था  a short  उत्पाद  lifespan , with support for  तभी  two games which comprised  the   ``  Robot Series  ''  ; Gyromite and Stack-Up .
r.o.b  . was released with the intention  of  portraying the Nintendo Entertainment  प्रणाली   as  something  अनोखा  in  अनुक्रम  to  alleviate  retail  fears   following  the video game crash of 1983 .
R.O.B  .  was  उपलब्धियाँ  in the Deluxe Set , a  विन्यास  for the console that included , among other things ,  r.o.b  .  और  Gyromite .
Stack-Up  थी  purchased  separately  and  शामिल   इसके  own physical game pieces .
The Walking  स्वतंत्रता  half dollar was  a   चांदी  50-cent piece or  हाफ   डालर  coin issued by  the  United  राज्य  Mint from 1916  to  1947  ;   it  was designed by  एडाल्फ  A. Weinman .
In 1915 , the  नई  Mint  निदेशक  , Robert  W.  Woolley ,  आए  to believe that he was not only allowed but required  by   विधि  to replace  सिक्का   डिजाइन  that  था  been  in  use  लिये  25  सालो  .
He therefore began  the  process of replacing the  नाई  coinage : dimes , quarters and half dollars , all  bearing  similar designs by long-time Mint Engraver Charles  E.   नाई  , and  पहला  struck in  1892   .
Woolley had the Commission of Fine  कला  conduct a competition ,  as  a result  of  which Weinman  थी   चयनित   to  design  the  dime and half  डालर  .
Weinman 's  डिज़ाइन   of   स्वतंत्रता  striding towards the Sun  लिये  the half  डालर   proved   मुश्किल   to  perfect , and Treasury Secretary William  G.  McAdoo ,  जिनकी  department included the Mint , considered having Barber  बनाएँ  his  अपना   डिज़ाइन  .
मिंट  officials  यहूद  successful in  getting   weinman  's  डिज़ाइन   into  production , although it never struck very well  ,  which  may  have been a  फ़ैक्टर  in  इसके  replacement by the  फ्रैंकलिन  half  डालर  beginning in 1948 .
nevertheless  , art historian Cornelius Vermeule considered the  टुकड़ा  to be among the  सबसे   खूबसूरत  US coins  .
Since 1986  ,  a modification of Weinman 's obverse  डिज़ाइन  has been used for the American Silver Eagle .
The Toyota  4runner  is a mid-size sport utility vehicle (  एसयूवी  ) produced by  the  Japanese manufacturer  टोयोटा  and  बेची  throughout  the  world from 1984 to present  .
In  जापानी  it was known  as   the  Toyota Hilux Surf  .
The original  4runner  was a compact SUV and little more than  a   टोयोटा  pickup truck  साथ  a fiberglass shell  over  the bed  ,   लकिन  the  मॉडल  has  चूंकि  undergone significant independent  विकास  into a cross between a compact  और  a  mid-size  SUV .
सब  4Runners have been built  at  Toyota  's  Tahara plant in Tahara ,  aichi  , Japan  ,  or at Hino Motors ' Hamura ,  जापानी  plant  ,  and  in  Brazil .
Its mid-size crossover  एसयूवी  counterpart is  the  Toyota Highlander .
इस   आलेख  deals with  आयुर्विज्ञान  as practiced by trained  पेशेवर  from ancient times to  the  present  .
The ancient  उन्होंने  had  a  system  of  medicine that  थी   बहुत  advanced  लिये  its time and influenced later  चिकित्सा  traditions .
the   उन्होंने  and Babylonians both introduced  the  concepts  of  diagnosis , prognosis  ,   और  medical examination .
the  Greeks went even further , and  उन्नत  as well  चिकित्सा  ethics .
The Hippocratic Oath , still taken  by  doctors today ,  थी  written in Greece  in   the   5th  century BCE .
in  the medieval era ,  सर्जिकल  practices inherited  इससे  the ancient masters were improved and then  systematized  in Rogerius 's  the  Practice of Surgery  .
Universities  began  systematic  प्रशिक्षण  of  physicians  around the years 1220 in Italy .
During the  पुनर्जागरण   ,  understanding of anatomy improved , and the microscope was invented  .
The  रोगाणु  theory of disease in the  19th  century  led  to  cures  for many  संक्रामक   रोगों   .
Military doctors  उन्नत  the methods of trauma  उपचार  and surgery .
Public  स्वास्थ्य   उपायों  were developed especially in  the  19th century  as  the  रैपिड  growth of cities required  व्यवस्थित  sanitary  उपायों  .
Advanced research  centers  opened in the  जल्दी  20th century , often connected with  प्रमुख   अस्पताल  .
The mid-20th century was characterized by  नई   biological  treatments ,  ऐसे  as antibiotics .
These advancements  ,  along with developments in chemistry  ,   आनुवंशिकी  ,  और   lab  technology (  ऐसे  as the  x-ray  ) led to modern medicine  .
आयुर्विज्ञान  was heavily professionalized in the 20th  सदी  , and new careers opened to women as nurses ( from the 1870s ) and as physicians ( especially after 1970 ) .
the  21st century is characterized by  बहुत  advanced research involving  numerous  fields of science .
The Hippocratic Corpus  ,  is a collection of early medical  works   इससे  ancient Greece  strongly  associated  साथ   the   प्राचीन   यूनानी   चिकित्सक  Hippocrates and  उसके  teachings  .
Potassium is  a   रासायनिक   तत्व  with  प्रतीक  K ( from  neo-latin  kalium ) and atomic number 19 .
Elemental potassium  is  a soft silvery-white  क्षारीय   मेटल   कि  oxidizes  rapidly  in  एयर   और  is very  प्रतिक्रिया  with water ,  generating  sufficient heat to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and  burning   साथ   a  lilac flame .
क्युकी  potassium and sodium  हैं  chemically very similar , their salts  यहूद   नहीं  at first  differentiated  .
the   अस्तित्व   of  multiple elements  in  their salts  थी   suspected   इससे   1702  , and this was proven in 1807 when potassium  और  sodium were  individually  isolated from different salts by electrolysis .
Potassium in nature  occurs  only in ionic  लवण   .
As such  ,   it   is   मिला  dissolved in seawater  (  which is 0.04 % potassium by  वज़न   )  , and is part of many minerals .
Most  औद्योगिक  chemical applications of  पोटैशियम  employ  the  relatively high solubility in water  of   पोटैशियम  compounds  ,   ऐसे  as potassium soaps  .
Potassium metal has only  a   few   खास  applications , being  replaced  in most  रासायनिक   प्रतिक्रियाएँ   साथ  sodium  मेटल   .
Potassium ions are necessary for the function of all living cells  .
पोटैशियम   आयन  diffusion is  a  key mechanism in nerve transmission  ,  and potassium depletion  in   पशु   ,  including  इंसानो  , results in  विभिन्न   हृदय   डिस्फंक्शन   .
पोटैशियम   accumulates  in  संयंत्र   कोशिकाएं   ,   और  thus fresh fruits  और  vegetables are a good dietary source  of  it .
Conversely  ,   सबसे  plants  मगर  specialist halophytes  हैं   असहिष्णु  of  नमक  , and sodium is present in them only  in  low  विशेषज्ञता  .
This resulted in potassium  पहला   होने   पृथक  from potash , the ashes of plants , giving the element  इसके   नाम  .
For the same  कारण  ,  भारी  crop production rapidly depletes soils of potassium ,  और  agricultural  fertilizers  consume 95 %  of  global potassium  रासायनिक  production  .
The  सिंगापुर  dollar or dollar (  चिह्न  :  $  ; code : SGD )  is  the  आधिकारिक   करेंसी  of Singapore  .
it  is  सामान्यतः   abbreviated  with  the  dollar sign  $  , or  alternatively  S $ to  फर्क   it  from  अन्य   डालर   -denominated  currencies  .
it   is   विभाजित  into  100  cents .
The  मौद्रिक  Authority of Singapore and the  ब्रुनेई   करेंसी   और  Monetary Board still  maintain  the historic exchangeability of their two currencies , the  singaporean  dollar  और  the  ब्रुनेई  dollar  ,  respectively .
the  dollar is accepted  as   ``  customary  टेंडर  ''  in  Brunei according to the Currency Interchangeability Agreement .
likewise  , the Brunei dollar is customarily accepted in  सिंगापुर
James  सैमुएल  Coleman ( May  12   ,   1926   –   कूच  25 , 1995 )  थी  an  अमरीकी  sociologist  ,  theorist  और  empirical researcher , based chiefly at the University  of  Chicago .
He was elected president of  the   अमरीकी  Sociological Association .
कोलमैन   पढ़ाई  the sociology of education , public policy , and was  एक  of the  earliest  users of the term `` social  पूंजी  `` .
His Foundations of Social  सिद्धान्त  influenced  समाजशास्त्रीय  theory .
His The Adolescent Society ( 1961  )  and `` Coleman  रपट  '' ( Equality of Educational Opportunity , 1966 )  यहूद   दो   of   the  most  heavily  cited books  in   शैक्षणिक   समाजशास्त्र  .
The landmark Coleman Report  helped  transform educational theory ,  reshape   नेशनल  education policies  ,   और   बहकावे  public and  scholarly  opinion  regarding   the  role of schooling in determining equality and productivity in  the  United  राज्य   .
सुपरमैन  ( from DC comics  )  was the  पहला  superhero created , art by  जिम  Lee .
a  superhero (  sometimes  rendered super-hero  or   सुपर   नायिका  )  is   a   प्रकार  of stock  अक्षर  possessing `` extraordinary or superhuman  शक्तियां  '' and dedicated  to   protecting  the public .
Since  the  debut of  the   prototypical  superhero Superman in 1938 , stories of superheroes—ranging from  ब्रैड  episodic adventures to continuing  years-long  sagas—have  वर्चस्व   अमरीकी   कॉमिक   किताबे  and crossed over into  अन्य   मीडिया  .
The word itself dates to at  तनिक   1917   .
A female  सुपरहीरो  is  sometimes  called a superheroine ( also rendered  super-heroine  or super heroine ) .
``   सुपर  HEROES  ''  is  a  trademark co-owned by DC Comics  और  Marvel Comics .
By  सबसे  definitions ,  वर्ण   do  not strictly require actual superhuman  शक्तियां   to  be deemed superheroes , although  शर्तें  such as costumed crime fighters  or  masked vigilantes are  sometimes   प्रयुक्त  to refer to  those   ऐसे  as Batman and Green  तीर  without such powers who  share  other common superhero  traits   .
Such characters were  generally  referred to  as   ``  mystery men '' in the so-called  सुनहरी   आयु   of  Comic Books  to  distinguish them from  वर्ण   साथ  super-powers  .
Normally ,  superheroes  use their powers to counter day-to-day  अपराधों  while also  combating   खतरे  against humanity by supervillains ,  उनके   दण्ड  counterparts  .
प्रायः  ,  एक  of these supervillains  होगा  be the superhero  's   archenemy  .
As  खूब   ,  some longrunning superheroes  ,   ऐसे   as   सुपरमैन  , Batman , Spider-Man and Iron  man  each has a  rogues  gallery  of  enemies  .
As  खूब  , superheroes sometimes  होगा  combat such irregular  खतरे  as aliens , magical/ fantasy entities ,  अमरीकी  war enemies such as nazism or communism , and godlike  or   demonic  creatures .
The following is a historical  सूची   of  actors and primary character roles  जिससे   appear   on  the  अमरीकी  soap opera One  जीवन  to Live .
the  Shawshank Redemption  is  a  1994  American drama film written and  निर्देशित  by Frank  darabont   और  starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman .
adapted  from the  स्टीफन  King novella  रीता   hayworth  and Shawshank  मोचन   ,  the film  tells   the  story  of  Andy Dufresne ,  a  banker who spends nearly  दो  decades in Shawshank State Prison for the murder of his  बीवी   और  her lover  despite   उसके  claims of innocence .
During his time at  the   थाना  ,  he   befriends  a fellow  inmate  , Ellis  boyd  `` Red  ''  Redding , and finds himself protected by the  गार्ड  after the warden begins using him in  उसके  money  laundering   आपरेशन   .
despite  a  गुनगुने   बक्सा  office reception  कि   मुश्किल   recouped  its budget , the  फिल्मी  received favorable reviews  इससे  critics , multiple  पुरस्कार   nominations   ,   और  has  चूंकि  enjoyed a  उल्लेखनीय   जीवन  on  केबल  television  ,   vhs  , DVD  ,  and Blu-ray  .
it  was included in the  अमरीकी  Film Institute 's 100  सालो  ...  100  Movies 10th Anniversary Edition .
IT management is  the  discipline  whereby  all of the  प्रौद्योगिकी   संसाधन  of  a  firm are managed in accordance with  इसके  needs  और  priorities  .
ये  resources  may   शामिल  tangible investments like  कंप्यूटर  hardware ,  तन्त्र  ,  आंकड़ा  , networks  और  data centre facilities  ,  as well as  the   staffs   जो  are hired to maintain them .
Managing  इस  responsibility within a company entails  अनेक  of the basic  प्रबन्धन   कृत्यों  , like budgeting , staffing , and organizing and  controlling   ,  along with other  पहलुओं   कि  are  अद्वितीय  to technology , like change management , software design  ,  network planning  ,   तकनीक  support etc .
The Penitentiary  of  New Mexico Prison Riot , which took  प्लेस   on  February 2 and 3 , 1980  ,  in  the  state  's   अधिकतम  security  थाना   दक्षिण  of Santa  fe  , was one of the most violent prison riots in the history of  the   अमरीकी  correctional  प्रणाली  : 33  inmates  died  और  more than  200   inmates  were treated for injuries .
None  of  the 12 officers taken hostage  यहूद  killed , but seven were  treated  for  चोटों   caused  by beatings  और  rapes .
This was the third major  riot   at  the  nm  State Penitentiary  ,  the  पहला  occurring on 19 July 1922 and the second  on   15  June 1953 .
Author  रोजर  Morris suggests the death toll  may  have been  उच्चतर  , as  a  number  of  bodies  यहूद  incinerated or dismembered during  the  course of the  mayhem  .
`` Red  कार्डिनल   ''  redirects here  .
For the  संयंत्र  Erythrina herbacea , see Coral Bean  .
The Northern Cardinal  (  Cardinalis cardinalis  )  is  a   उत्तर  American bird in the genus Cardinalis ; it  is   भी  known  colloquially  as the  redbird   or   आम  cardinal .
it  can be found  in   दक्षिणी  Canada , through the eastern United States  इससे  Maine to Texas and south through Mexico .
It  is  found  in  woodlands , gardens , shrublands  ,   और   swamps  .
The  उत्तरी  Cardinal is a mid-sized songbird with  a  body length  of  21  सेंटीमीटर  ( 8.3  इंच  ) .
It has  a  distinctive crest on the head  और   a  mask on the face which is  ब्लैक  in the  पुरूष   और  gray in the  मादा  .
The male is  a   हर्षोल्लास   रेड   ,  while the female is a dull red-brown shade  .
The  उत्तरी   कार्डिनल  is  मुख्यतः   granivorous   ,  but also feeds on  कीट  and fruit .
The  पुरूष   behaves   territorially  , marking out his  territory   साथ   सोंग   .
दौरान  courtship , the  पुरूष  feeds  बीज   to  the female beak-to-beak .
A clutch  of   तीन  to four eggs is laid , and  दो  to  चार   चंगुल   हैं  produced each year .
It was  एकबार  prized as a pet ,  लकिन   इसके  sale  as  cage birds  is   अभी   बैन  in  the  United  राज्य  by the  migratory  Bird Treaty Act of  1918   .
Surface runoff , also called  nonpoint  source  प्रदूषण   ,   इससे  a  फार्म  field in  आयोवा  during a  बरसात  storm  .
Topsoil  as  well  as  farm fertilizers and other potential pollutants run off  unprotected  farm fields  जब  heavy rains occur .
Topsoil  is  the  अपर  , outermost layer of soil , usually the top to .
It has the highest concentration  of  organic matter and microorganisms and  is   जहाँ  most of the Earth  's  biological soil activity  occurs  .
Musical  cryptogram   :  `` Aschbeg  ''  set  in   schoenberg  's Sechs kleine Klavierstücke , Op  .   19  , no . 1 , m.  5  .
Note that the notes do  नहीं  come  in  spelling order  लकिन   हैं  all  सटा  ( not separated  by  other notes  )  .
sechs   kleine   klavierstücke  , Op  .  19 (  or  Six  छोटी  Piano Pieces ) is a set of pieces for  सोलो  piano written  by  the  आस्ट्रिया   composer  Arnold  schoenberg  ,  प्रकाशित  in 1913 .
McAfee  ,  Inc. (  )   is   an  American global  कंप्यूटर  security software company headquartered in Santa Clara  ,  California  ,  and  the  world 's largest dedicated security technology  कम्पनी  .
as  of February  28  , 2011 , McAfee is a  wholly   स्वामित्व  subsidiary of Intel .
McAfee 's competitors in the  एंटीवायरस  industry  हैं  Avira , BitDefender  ,   bullguard   ,   f-secure  , Frisk , Kaspersky ,  symantec  , and  ट्रेंड  Micro to  नाम  a few .
Saint Rita of Cascia  (  Born  margherita  Lotti 1381 -  may  22  ,  1457 ) was an  इतालवी  Augustinian nun , widow  और  saint venerated in the Roman Catholic Church .
Rita was  शादीशुदा  at an  जल्दी  age  .
The marriage lasted for 18 years , during  जिससे  she is remembered  लिये   उसके   ईसाई  values  as  a model  बीवी  and mother who made efforts to convert her husband from his abusive behavior  .
Upon the murder of  उसके   husband  by another feuding family  ,  she sought  to   dissuade  her sons from  बदला   .
She subsequently joined an  augustinian  community  of  religious sisters , where she  थी  known for  practicing   mortification   of  the  flesh   ,  along with the apparent efficacy of her  प्रार्थनाएं   .
St.  रीता  is venerated due to various  चमत्कार   attributed  to  उसके  intercession  ,  and is often  portrayed  with a  bleeding  wound on her forehead , which the Roman  कैथोलिक  Church claims  to   have   महरूम  a  आंशिक  stigmata .
The Roman  कैथोलिक  Church , under  the  pontificate  of  Pope  leo  XIII  officially  canonized  रीता  on  may   24   ,  1900 , while her feast day is celebrated every May  22  .
In many  परहेज़गारों  Catholic countries , Rita is known to be  a   patroness   लिये  abused wives and  शोक   महिलाओं  .
उत्तर   अमेरिका  is a continent wholly within  the  Northern Hemisphere and  लगभग  wholly within  the  Western  गोलार्ध  .
It is  भी  considered a  उत्तरी  subcontinent of the  americas   .
It  is   bordered  to the north  by  the Arctic  समंदर  ,  to  the  ईस्ट  by the Atlantic Ocean  ,  to the west and south by  the  Pacific Ocean  ,  and  to  the southeast by South America and  the   caribbean  Sea .
North America covers an  क्षेत्रफल  of about  24,709,000  square kilometers ( 9,540,000 square miles ) , about 4.8  %   of   the  planet 's surface  or  about 16.5 %  of  its land area  .
As  of  July 2008 ,  इसके  population  थी  estimated at  nearly   529   लाख  people across  23  independent states  ,  representing about 7.5 %  of  the  इंसान  population .
North America is the  third-largest  continent  in  area , following  एशिया  and Africa  ,   और  the fourth in population after  एशिया   ,  Africa , and Europe .
the   पहला  people  to  live in North America were Paleoindians who  began   to  arrive  दौरान  the last  glacial  period by crossing the Bering land  सेतु  .
They differentiated into a number  of   विविध   संस्कृतियों   और  communities across the continent  .
the  largest and  सबसे  advanced Pre-Columbian  सभ्यताओं   in  North  अमेरिका  were the Aztecs in what is now Mexico and the Mayans in Central  अमेरिका  .
European colonists began to arrive  starting   in  the 16th  और  17th centuries , wiping out large numbers of  the   देशी   populations  and beginning  an   era   of  European dominance .
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January 28 , 1985 ) , better known  by  his stage name J. Cole  ,  is an  अमरीकी  hip-hop  रिकॉर्डिंग  artist  और  record producer from  fayetteville  , North Carolina .
In 2009  ,  he became the first artist to  चिह्न  to Jay-Z 's Roc Nation  लेबल  .
उसके  long-awaited  डेब्यू  album , entitled Cole World : The Sideline Story  ,  was released on September  27  , 2011  .
The album  debuted   at   क्रमांक   एक  on the US Billboard  200  , Top R & B  एल्बम  and  शीर्ष  Rap Albums chart , selling  अधिक  than 218,000  in   इसके   पहला  week .
he  received  a  nomination for Best  नई   कलाकार  at the  54th  Grammy  पुरस्कार  .
the  two main characters  of  the  श्रेणी   ,  Ratchet  (   सही  ) and Clank ( left )  .
Ratchet & Clank is  a  series of platform  वीडियो  games .
the  franchise was created and  विकसित  by  insomniac  Games and  प्रकाशित  by Sony  कंप्यूटर  Entertainment for many different PlayStation consoles , such  as  PlayStation  2  and PlayStation 3  साथ  the exclusion of  आकार  Matters and  रहस्य  Agent Clank , which were developed  by  High Impact  खेल  for the PlayStation Portable  .
प्रत्येक  game in  the  series has been released for every console  ,  as the  ip   is  owned  by  Sony  कंप्यूटर  Entertainment .
an  animated feature film  अनुकूलन  produced by  rainmaker  Entertainment and Blockade Entertainment  is  scheduled for  a  theatrical release sometime in 2015 .
The games  लो  place in a  विज्ञान  fiction setting  और   follow  the  adventures  of  ratchet  ( an animalistic human-like  अक्षर   ज्ञात   as  a Lombax  ,  who is a mechanic  )  and Clank ( a diminutive  ,  sentient robot ) as  वे  travel through  the   ब्रह्मांड   ,  saving  it  from evil forces on  a   नियमित  basis  .
the  series  is  noted for the  समावेश  of many exotic  और  unique , over the  शीर्ष   हथियार   और  devices  ,  a  अवधारणा  that Insomniac  खेल  also expanded into their other  खेल   .
A will  or  testament  is  a legal  घोषणा   by  which a  व्यक्ति   ,  the testator  ,  names  एक  or more persons to  मैनेज   his/her  estate  और  provides for the  ट्रांसफ़र  of  उसके  property at death  .
For the devolution of  प्रॉपर्टी  not disposed of by will  ,   देखिए  inheritance and intestacy .
in  the  strictest   भाव  , a  ``  will  ''  has historically been limited  to  real property  जबकि  `` testament '' applies only to dispositions of personal property  (  thus giving  वृद्धि  to  the  popular title  of   the   दस्तावेज़  as  ``  Last Will  और   वसीयत  '' )  ,   हालांकि  this distinction  is   seldom   observed  today .
a  will may also create a  testamentary  trust that  is   प्रभावी  only after the death of the testator .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar  सौर  plant in  स्पेन   सुविधाएँ   15  hours  of  storage  और  can supply power 24 hours a day .
Solar energy ,  रौशन   लाइट  and heat  इससे  the sun , has been harnessed by  इंसानो  since ancient times  using   a   दायरा  of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar  photovoltaics  ,  सौर  thermal electricity ,  सौर  architecture and artificial photosynthesis ,  जिससे  can  मेक  considerable  योगदान  to  solving   कुछ  of  the  most urgent energy problems  the  world now  चेहरों  .
Solar technologies are broadly  characterized  as either  passive   सौर   or  active solar depending on the way they capture  ,  convert  और  distribute  सौर  energy .
Active  सौर  techniques include the use of  photovoltaic  panels and solar thermal collectors  to  harness the  उर्जा  .
Passive solar  तकनीकों  include  orienting  a building to the Sun , selecting  सामग्री  with favorable thermal mass or  लाइट  dispersing properties ,  और  designing spaces  कि  naturally  circulate  air .
In 2011 , the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Energy Agency said that  ``   the  development of affordable , inexhaustible and clean solar  उर्जा   technologies  will have huge  longer-term  benefits .
It will  बढ़ाएँ  countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource  ,  enhance sustainability  ,  reduce  प्रदूषण  , lower  the  costs of  mitigating  climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower  than   वरना  .
ये  advantages are global .
hence   the   अतिरिक्त  costs of the incentives  लिये  early deployment  चाहिए   be  considered  सीखना   निवेश   ;  they must be wisely  खर्च   और  need to be widely shared '' .
Sir  थामस  More ( ;  7  February 14786  जुलाई  1535  )  , known to  रोमन  Catholics  as  Saint Thomas  अधिक   चूंकि  1935  ,  was  an   अंग्रेज़ी  lawyer , social philosopher  ,  author ,  statesman  ,  और  noted Renaissance  humanist   .
he  was  an  important  पार्षद   to  Henry VIII of  इंग्लैण्ड  and  थी  Lord  चांसलर  from October 1529  to  16 May 1532 .
He was  canonized  by Pope Pius  xi  in  1935  as one of  the  early  शहीदो  of the schism that separated the Church  of  England from Rome  in  the 16th  सदी   .
In  2000  ,  पोप  John Paul II  घोषित   उसे  patron of  कैथोलिक  statesmen and  राजनेता  .
More was  an  opponent of  the   प्रोटोस्टेंट  Reformation , in particular of Martin  लूथर  and  विलियम  Tyndale .
However  ,  since 1980 , he is also commemorated by the Church of England  as  a reformation martyr .
अधिक  coined  the  word  ``   यूटोपिया  `` –  a  name he  दिया  to  the  ideal and  काल्पनिक  island nation , the political system  of  which he described in  यूटोपिया  ,  प्रकाशित  in  1516  .
He opposed the  किंग  's separation  इससे  the Roman Catholic Church  और  refused to accept him as  परम्  Head of the Church of England , a  शीर्षक  which had  महरूम  given by parliament  through   the  Act  of   सर्वोच्चता  of 1534 .
he  was  imprisoned  in 1534 for  उसके  refusal  to  take  the  oath  जरूरी   by  the First Succession  अधिनियम  ,  क्युकी  the  अधिनियम  disparaged  papal   प्राधिकार  and Henry’s  विवाह  to  कैथरीन   of   aragon   .
In 1535 , he  थी   आजमाया  for  देशद्रोह  , convicted on  perjured  testimony  ,  and beheaded  .
More also helped  to  originate the  phrase  `` grasp at straws '' to mean `` desperately trying  भी  useless things  ''  , in  उसके  Dialogue of Comfort Against Tribulation  .
Intellectuals  और   कूटनीतिज्ञों  across Europe  यहूद  stunned  by   अधिक   's  execution .
Erasmus saluted him as one `` whose  आत्मा   थी   अधिक  pure than  कोई  snow ,  जिनकी  genius was such  कि   इंग्लैण्ड  never had  और  never  again  will have  इसके  like '' .
There  थी   a   अधिक  controversial side  to  More  's  life ,  क्युकी  he advocated  the  persecution  और  execution of Protestants  जो  refused  to  recant their  आस्था  .
However , the judgement  of  history has  महरूम   largely   willing   to  forgive this in  लाइट  of the times he lived in  और  his martyrdom in the Roman Catholic cause .
Two  सदियां  later Jonathan Swift said More was ``  the  person of the  महानतम  virtue this kingdom ever produced '' ,  a  sentiment with which Samuel Johnson  सहमत   .
Historian Hugh  trevor-roper  said  in  1977 that More  थी  `` the first great Englishman whom we feel that  we  know ,  the   सबसे  saintly of  humanists  , the most human of saints , the universal  man  of our cool northern renaissance .  ''
कप्तान  Nemo ,  भी  known  as   प्रिंस  Dakkar ,  is  a fictional character invented by the French science fiction author  जूल्स  Verne .
Nemo  appears  in two of Verne 's  novels  , Twenty Thousand Leagues  अंतर्गत  the Sea  (   1870  ) and  the   रहस्यमय  Island  (   1874   )   ,  and makes a cameo appearance  in  Verne  's  play  यात्रा   through   the  Impossible  (  1882 ) .
Nemo  ,   एक  of  the  most famous antiheroes in  fiction  , is  a   रहस्यमय  figure .
The son  of   an  Indian  राजा   ,  he is  a   वैज्ञानिक  genius who roams  the   गहराइयों  of the sea in his submarine  ,  the Nautilus ,  जिससे  was built on  a   उजाड़  island  .
Nemo tries to project a  stern  ,  नियंत्रित  confidence  ,  but he is driven by  a  thirst  लिये   प्रतिशोध  and  a   द्वेष  of imperialism  (   विशेषकर  the British  साम्राज्य  ) .
he   is  also wracked by remorse  over  the deaths of his crew members and  भी  by  the   मौतों   of  enemy sailors .
Nemo has appeared in  विभिन्न   adaptations  of Verne 's novels , including  films  ,  जहाँ  he  रै  been portrayed by a  क्रमांक  of  अलग   अभिनेताओं  .
He  रै  furthermore been  अपनाया   by  other  लेखक  for  समावेश  in their novels ,  सबसे  notably in Alan Moore  's  The League  of   असाधारण  Gentlemen and Philip  जोस  Farmer 's The  अन्य   log  of Phileas Fogg .
Listed below are the  प्रमुख  League Baseball teams with the  बेहतरीन  season won-lost records in history  ,  as determined by winning  प्रतिशत   (   .700  or  बेहतर  ) , minimum  120  games  निभाई   .
Acoustic  coupler   मॉडेम
a  modem  (   modulator-demodulator  ) is a device that modulates  an  analog  वाहक   सिग्नल   to  encode digital information , and  भी  demodulates such a carrier signal  to  decode the transmitted information .
The goal is to  उपज  a signal that can be  transmitted  easily and decoded to reproduce the original digital data .
Modems can be used over any means of transmitting analog signals  ,   इससे   लाइट  emitting  diodes  to  रेडियो  .
The most familiar example  is  a voice band  मॉडेम   कि  turns the  डिजिटल  data  of  a personal computer into  modulated  electrical  सिग्नल  in the voice  आवृत्ति  range of  a   टेलीफोन  channel .
These signals can  be  transmitted over telephone  लाइनों  and demodulated by  another  modem  at  the receiver  पक्ष   to  recover the  डिजिटल  data .
Modems are generally classified by the amount of data  वे  can send  in   a  given  ईकाई   of  time , usually expressed  in  bits per second  (   bit/s  ,  or  bps ) ,  or  bytes per second ( B/s  )   .
Modems can  alternatively  be classified by their symbol  रेट  ,  measured   in   baud  .
The baud  ईकाई   denotes  symbols per  दूसरी  , or the number of times per  दूसरी  the modem  भेजना   a  new signal .
लिये  example ,  the  ITU V.21 standard  प्रयुक्त  audio frequency shift keying  साथ  two possible frequencies corresponding to two distinct  प्रतीकों   (  or one bit per symbol ) , to  carry   300   बिट्स  per second using  300   baud  .
by  contrast ,  the   असली  ITU V.22 standard , which was able to transmit  और  receive four distinct symbols ( two bits per  प्रतीक  ) , handled 1,200  bit/s  by sending 600 symbols per  दूसरी  ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying  .
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by  the   महाद्वीपीय  Congress  on   जुलाई   4  ,  1776   ,  which announced that the  तेरह  American colonies ,  तब   at  war with Great Britain , regarded  themselves   as  independent states  ,   और  no longer a part of the British Empire .
बजाय  they now formed a new nation—the United  राज्य  of America  .
John Adams was  a  leader in pushing for independence  ,  which was  unanimously   स्वीकृत  on July  2   .
A committee had already drafted the formal declaration  ,   to  be ready  जब  congress voted on independence .
एडम्स  persuaded the  कमेटी  to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the  असली   ड्राफ्ट  of the document  ,  which congress  होता  edit  to   उपज   the  final version .
The Declaration was  ultimately  a  औपचारिक   स्पष्टीकरण  of why Congress had voted on July 2  to  declare independence  इससे  Great Britain , more  than   a  year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War .
The national  जन्मदिवस   ,   the   स्वतंत्रता  Day  is  celebrated on July 4 ,  हालांकि  Adams wanted July 2 .
After  ratifying  the text  on   जुलाई  4 , Congress issued  the   घोषणा   of  Independence in several forms .
it  was initially published  as  the  मुद्रित   डनलप  broadside  कि  was  widely  distributed and read to  the  public .
The most famous version of  the   घोषणा   ,  a signed  नक़ल  that is popularly regarded as the  घोषणा  of  स्वतंत्रता  , is  प्रदर्शित   at  the National Archives in  वॉशिंगटन   ,  D.C  .
Although the wording  of  the Declaration was approved on  जुलाई   4   ,  the date  of   इसके  signing was August 2 .
The  असली  July  4  United States Declaration  of  Independence  पाण्डुलिपि  was lost while all other copies  have  been derived from this original  दस्तावेज़  .
The sources and  निर्वचन  of the Declaration have  महरूम  the subject of much scholarly  पूछताछ  .
The Declaration  जायज  the  स्वतंत्रता  of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  by listing colonial grievances  विरूद्ध  King George  iii  , and by asserting certain  प्राकृतिक   और  legal rights ,  सहित  a right  of  revolution .
Having served  इसके  original  purpose  in announcing independence , the text of  the  Declaration  थी  initially ignored  बाद   the  American Revolution .
Since then , it has come to be considered a major statement on  इंसान   अधिकारों  , particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths  to  be self-evident ,  कि   सब  men are created equal , that they are endowed by  उनके  Creator with certain  unalienable  Rights , that among these are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness  .
This has been called `` one of the  best-known   वाक्य  in the English  भाषा  '' , containing `` the most potent and consequential words in American history  .  ''
The passage came to represent  a  moral standard  to   जिससे   the  United  राज्य  should  नीयत  .
This view was  notably   प्रचारित   by  Abraham Lincoln ,  जो   माना  the Declaration to be the foundation  of   उसके  political philosophy  ,  and  argued   कि   the   घोषणा  is  a  statement  of   सिद्धान्त   through   जिससे  the United States Constitution  चाहिए   be  interpreted .
It has  प्रेरित  work for  the  rights of marginalized people throughout  the  world  .
The Economy of Greenland can be characterized  as  small  ,  mixed and vulnerable .
the  present economy consists of a  बिग  public sector  और  comprehensive foreign trade ,  जिससे  has  resulted  in an economy with periods of strong growth  ,  considerable inflation  ,   बेरोजगारी  problems and  चरम  dependence  on   पूंजी   inflow   इससे   डेनमार्क  and use of outside , mainly Danish ,  skilled  labor .
GDP per capita is similar to the average European economies but  the  economy is critically dependent upon substantial support from the  डैनिश   सरकारी   ,  which supplies about half the revenues  of  the home rule  सरकारी  who in turn  employ   परिचय   8,000  Greenlanders out of  a   मजदूर  force  of  40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ) .
बेरोजगारी  nonetheless remains high  ,  with the rest  of  the economy dependent upon demand for exports of shrimp and fish  .
Hydrogen is  a  chemical element with  प्रतीक  H and atomic number 1 .
साथ  an  परमाणु   वज़न  of  (   लिये  hydrogen-1 ) ,  हाइड्रोजन  is the lightest  तत्व   और  its monatomic form  (  H1 )  is   the  most  abundant  chemical substance , constituting roughly 75  %   of  the Universe 's baryonic  द्रव्यमान  .
Non- remnant  सितारों  are  मुख्यतः  composed of hydrogen  in   इसके   प्लाज्मा   राज्य  .
at   मानक  temperature and pressure , hydrogen is  a  colorless  ,  odorless ,  tasteless   ,  non-toxic ,  nonmetallic  , highly combustible diatomic gas with the molecular formula H2 .
सबसे   of  the hydrogen on  धरती   is  in  अणुओं   ऐसे  as water and organic  यौगिकों  because hydrogen readily  फ़ॉर्म   covalent  compounds with most non-metallic elements .
Hydrogen plays  a   विशेषकर  important role  in   acid-base  chemistry with  अनेक  reactions exchanging  protons  between soluble  अणुओं  .
in  ionic compounds  ,  it  can  take  a  negative charge ( an anion known as a hydride  और  written as H− ) , or  as   a  positively charged species  H+  .
the  latter cation  is  written as though  रचित  of a  bare  proton , but  in  reality , hydrogen cations  in  ionic  यौगिकों  always occur as more complex species .
The most common  समस्थानिक   of   हाइड्रोजन  is protium ( name rarely  प्रयुक्त   ,  symbol  1h  ) with a single proton and no neutrons .
As  the   सरलतम   अणु   ज्ञात  ,  the  hydrogen atom has been of theoretical use .
For example , as the  तभी   न्यूट्रल   अणु  with an analytic  समाधान  to  the  Schrödinger equation  ,  the study of  the   energetics  and bonding of the  हाइड्रोजन  atom  निभाई  a key role in the  विकास   of  quantum mechanics .
Hydrogen  गैस  was  पहला   artificially  produced in the early  16th   सदी   ,   via  the mixing  of  metals with acids .
In 1766–81 ,  हेनरी   कैवेंडिश   थी   the  first  to   recognize  that hydrogen  गैस   थी  a discrete substance ,  और   कि  it produces water when burned , a property which  बाद   दिया  it its name  :  in Greek ,  हाइड्रोजन  means  ``  water-former '' .
Industrial production is mainly from the steam reforming of natural gas , and  कम  often from more energy-intensive hydrogen production  विधि  like the electrolysis  of  water  .
Most hydrogen is  employed   निकट  its  उत्पादन  site ,  साथ  the two largest uses being fossil fuel processing  (  e.g. , hydrocracking  )  and ammonia  उत्पादन   ,   ज़्यादातर  for  the  fertilizer  मार्केट  .
हाइड्रोजन   is  a concern in metallurgy  as  it can embrittle many  धातुओं  , complicating the design of  pipelines  and storage tanks .
Unstoppable is a 2010 American action thriller  फिल्मी  directed  by  Tony Scott ,  लिखा   by   चिह्नित   bomback  , and  अभिनीत  Denzel Washington  और  Chris Pine  .
The film , loosely based on  the  real-life CSX  8888  incident , tells  the   स्टोरी  of a runaway freight train  ,  and  the   दो  men ( Washington and  पाइन   )   जो  manage  to   रोकें   it  .
it  was  स्कॉट   's   फाइनल   विशेषता   फिल्मी  before  उसके  death in 2012 .
The film was released in the United States and Canada on November  12  , 2010  ,   और   in  the United Kingdom on November  24   ,   2010  .
It received mostly favorable  समीक्षाएँ   इससे  film critics ; it garnered a `` Certified Fresh ''  दरजा   on  Rotten Tomatoes based  upon   समग्र  reviews  और   a  rating of ``  generally  favorable reviews ''  at  Metacritic  .
The film  थी  nominated for  an  Academy Award for Best Sound Editing at the 83rd Academy Awards , but lost to Inception  .
in   छायाचित्र   ,  bracketing is the general technique of taking several  गोलियाँ  of the  वही  subject using different camera settings .
Bracketing  is   उपयोगी  and often recommended in situations that  मेक  it difficult  to  obtain a satisfactory image  साथ  a single  शॉट  ,  विशेषकर   जब   a  small variation  in  exposure parameters  रै  a comparatively large  प्रभाव   on   the   resulting  image  .
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing  by  using a  सेटिंग  on  the   कैमरा  to take several bracketed shots ( in contrast to the photographer altering  the  settings by  हाथ  between each  शॉट  ) .
Given the time it takes to accomplish multiple  गोलियाँ  ,  it  is typically ,  लकिन   नहीं  always ,  प्रयुक्त   लिये   स्थिर   विषय  .
Insulated glazing  (  IG  )  ,  अधिक  commonly known  as  double glazing ( or  double-pane  , and  increasingly  triple glazing/pane )  हैं  double or  ट्रिपल   कांच  window panes separated  by  an  एयर  or other gas filled space to  reduce   ऊष्मा  transfer across  a  part of  the   भवन  envelope  .
Insulated Glass Units are manufactured  साथ  glass in range  of  thickness from 3 mm to  10  mm or more in special  अनुप्रयोग  .
Laminated or tempered glass  may   भी  be used as part of  the  construction .
Most units are manufactured with the  वही   मोटाई  of glass used  on  both panes but special applications such  as  acoustic attenuation or security may require wide  सीमाएँ   of  thicknesses to be incorporated in the same  ईकाई  .
A sectioned diagram of a fixed Insulated Glazed Unit ( IGU ) ,  indicating   the  numbering convention  प्रयुक्त   in  this article  .
Surface # 1 is  facing   बाहर   ,  Surface # 2  is  the  अंदर  surface  of  the  exterior  pane , Surface # 3 is the outside surface of  the   आंतरिक  pane  ,  and  सतह   #   4  is the  अंदर  surface  of  interior  फलक   .
The window frame  is  labelled # 5  ,  a  spacer  is  indicated  as # 6 ,  seals   हैं  shown  in  red ( #  7  )  ,   the  internal reveal is on the  सही  hand  पक्ष   (  # 8  )   और  the exterior windowsill on the left (  #  9 )
to   reduce   shear  effects on the sealed unit ( a  प्रमुख  cause of premature failure )  ,  manufacturers use a rule of  अंगूठा  that permits a difference of 1  mm   between  the thickness of the panes of glass used  in   the  unit  और  still maintain the warranty for the unit  .
लिये  example , a unit may be ordered with a 4 mm pane on the exterior and  a  3 mm  फलक   on  the interior .
These variations  हैं  allowed for architectural  और  cost  कारण   .
Other combinations can be specified and produced but  the  manufacturer may  आरक्षित  the right to limit the term of  the  warranty  or  refuse to warranty the  ईकाई  altogether .
For  आसानी  of  वर्णन  the surfaces of a double paned unit  हैं   नामित  according to the following convention  :  Surface # 1 ( facing outside )  ,   सतह  # 2  (   अंदर   of  outside  फलक  )  ,  Surface  #  3  (  outside  of  inside pane ) and  सतह  # 4 ( inside surface  of   अंदर  pane )  .
Applying the corresponding nomenclature  लिये  triple  paned   इकाई  results  in   सतहों   #   1  through  #   6   .
The performance of  insulating   glazing   can  be modified through the use of the following:
a   ठेठ  installation of insulated  glazing  windows  साथ  uPVC window  फ्रेम्स  .
सेलेनियम  is a  रासायनिक  element  साथ  symbol  se  and  परमाणु   क्रमांक  34 .
it  is a nonmetal with properties  कि  are intermediate  between  those of  इसके  periodic  तालिका  column-adjacent  chalcogen   तत्व  sulfur and tellurium .
It  rarely  occurs in its elemental state in nature , or as pure ore compounds .
Selenium  (  Greek σελήνη selene  अर्थ  `` Moon ''  )   थी   खोजा  in  1817   by  Jöns Jacob Berzelius  ,  who  विख्यात   the   समानता  of  the  new element  to   the  previously-known tellurium ( named  लिये  the Earth ) .
सेलेनियम  is found  impurely  in  मेटल  sulfide ores , where it  partially  replaces the sulfur .
Commercially , selenium is produced  as  a  byproduct  in the refining  of  these ores , most  प्रायः   दौरान  copper production .
Minerals that  हैं  pure  selenide  or selenate  यौगिकों   हैं  known ,  लकिन   हैं  rare .
The  मुख्य   वाणिज्यिक  uses for selenium  आज  are  in   glassmaking  and in pigments .
Selenium  is  a  सेमीकंडक्टर  and is  प्रयुक्त   in  photocells  .
Uses in electronics , once important , have been mostly supplanted  by  silicon  सेमीकंडक्टर  devices  .
Selenium  continues  to be used in a few types of DC  शक्ति  surge protectors  और   एक  type of fluorescent  क्वांटम  dot .
Selenium  लवण  are  विषाक्त   in  large  amounts   ,  but trace amounts  हैं   जरुरी  for cellular function  in  many organisms  ,  including all animals  .
Selenium is a component of  the  antioxidant  एंजाइमों  glutathione peroxidase and  thioredoxin   reductase  ( which  indirectly  reduce certain oxidized molecules in animals  और  some plants ) .
It is also found in  तीन   deiodinase   एंजाइमों  ,  जिससे  convert  एक  thyroid hormone to another  .
Selenium requirements  in   पौधे  differ by species , with some plants requiring relatively large amounts  ,  and others apparently requiring  none  .
The United  राज्य   अध्यक्षीय   चुनाव   of   2008   थी  the 56th  quadrennial  presidential election  .
it  was  आयोजित  on Tuesday , November 4 , 2008 .
डेमोक्रेट  Barack  ओबामा   ,  then  the   जूनियर   सीनेटर  from  इलिनोइस   ,  defeated Republican  जॉन  McCain ,  the  senior Senator from Arizona  .
as  the campaign progressed ,  the   युद्ध  in Iraq  और   outgoing   रिपब्लिकन  President George W. Bush had become increasingly unpopular ,  और  the major-party candidates ran on a platform of  बदलें  and reform .
Domestic policy and  the  economy  आखिरकार  emerged as the main  विषयवस्तु  in the last few months  of  the election campaign after the onset of the worst recession since the  1930s  .
Obama would go on to win a decisive  विजय   over   मैक्केन  in both the  चुनावी  and  लोकप्रिय  vote .
Obama received the most  मत  for a  अध्यक्षीय  candidate  in  American history ,  और  won  the   लोकप्रिय   और  electoral vote by the  largest   हाशिया  in  12  years  ,  as  खूब  as  the  largest percentage of  the  popular vote for a Democrat in nearly  a  half-century .
This  थी  the  पहला  U.S. presidential election in which an African American was elected  ,  having  भी  been the first in which an  अफ़्रीकी  American won  the  nomination of either  प्रमुख  party  .
This  चुनाव  was also notable  लिये  being  the  first time in U.S. history that both major party  उम्मीदवार   यहूद  sitting U.S . Senators , only  the  third time (  बाद   1920  and  1960  )  कि  any sitting U.S  .   सीनेटर   थी  elected  अध्यक्ष  ,  और   तभी  the second time  कि   the   जीतना  President and  वाइस  President ( Obama and  बिडेन  )  यहूद  both sitting U.S . Senators .
This was also  the   पहला  election since  1952  in which neither  of  the major  पार्टियों  '  नामांकित  was the incumbent President  or   वाइस   अध्यक्ष   .
The Sovereign  प्रिंस  or Princess  of  Monaco  is  the reigning  monarch  and  सिर   of  state  of   the  Principality  of  Monaco  .
All princes or  राजकुमारियों   have   officially  taken the name of  the  House of Grimaldi ,  लकिन  have belonged to various other houses (  goyon  de  matignon   ,  Polignac )  in   पुरूष   लकीर   .
The reigning  प्रिंस   is  Albert  ii  .
कल्पना  of  fragmentation   और   तब   of  defragmentation
In  the  maintenance of file systems , defragmentation is a  प्रक्रम  that  reduces  the amount  of  fragmentation .
It does this by  physically   आयोजन  the  सामग्री  of  the  mass  भंडार  device used to store  फाइलें  into the smallest  क्रमांक  of contiguous regions ( fragments ) .
It also  कोशिशें  to create  larger  regions of free space using compaction to  impede  the return of  fragmentation  .
Some defragmentation utilities try to keep  छोटी  files within a  सिंगल   निर्देशिका  together , as they are often accessed in  अनुक्रम   .
Defragmentation is advantageous and  प्रासंगिक   to  file  प्रणालियों  on  electromechanical   डिस्क  drives .
The movement  of   the  hard drive 's read/write heads over  अलग   क्षेत्रों   of  the  डिस्क  when accessing fragmented files  is  slower , compared to accessing the  संपूर्ण   सामग्री  of  a  non-fragmented  संचिका  sequentially without  चलती  the  read/write  heads to seek other fragments .
a  service-level agreement ( SLA  )  is a  भाग   of   a   सेवा   अनुबंध  where  a  service is formally defined .
In  अभ्यास  , the term SLA is sometimes  प्रयुक्त   to   refer  to the contracted delivery time ( of  the   सेवा   or  performance )  .
As an  उदाहरण  , internet  सेवा  providers will commonly include  सेवा   स्तर   समझौतों  within the terms of  उनके  contracts with customers to define  the   स्तर  ( s )  of  service being sold in  मैदान  language terms .
In  इस  case the  sla  will  typically  have a technical  परिभाषा   in   शर्तें  of mean time  between   असफलताओं  (  mtbf  ) , mean time to repair or  औसत   समय  to recovery ( MTTR )  ;  various data rates  ;  throughput ;  जिटर  ; or similar  measurable  details .
Union Station is a  पूर्व   खरीदारी  mall  in  Union City , Georgia  ,  in  दक्षिणपश्चिम  metro Atlanta  सटा  to Interstate  85  .
After new  स्वामित्व  and  renovations   in  2006  ,  the  नाम  was changed  इससे  Shannon Southpark Mall in 2007  to  Union Station Mall  .
A previous renovation was done  in   the  late 1990s .
The mall  रै  been closed since November 2010 .
This  मैप  shows the  संलग्न   संयुक्त   राज्य   और  , in insets  at   the  lower left ,  the  two  राज्य  that are not  संलग्न  .
the   संलग्न  United States are the 48 adjoining U.S. states on the  महाद्वीप   of  North America that are south of Canada and north of  मैक्सिको  , plus  the   ज़िला   of   कोलंबिया  .
The term excludes the  राज्य   of  Alaska and Hawaii , and all off-shore U.S. territories  और  possessions , such as  प्यूर्टो   रीको  .
साथ  ,  the   48  contiguous states and  d.C.  occupy a  संयुक्त   क्षेत्रफल  of , which is 1.58  %   of  the total surface area of the Earth  .
Of this ,  is  land , composing 83.65 %  of   u.S.   जमीन  area .
Officially , is water area , composing  62.66  %  of   the  nation 's water area  .
The 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  population was 306,675,006 ,  composing  99.33  %  of the  स्वदेश   's  population ,  और  a density  of   103.639  inhabitants/sq mi (  40.015/km2  ) , compared to 87.264/sq  mi  ( 33.692/km2 ) for the nation as a  पूरे   .
``  Why ''  is   the  title of a song recorded  by  American country  बैंड  Rascal  flatts   .
it   is  the third  सिंगल   इससे   उनके  sixth studio  एल्बम   ,  Unstoppable .
It was released to  रेडियो   स्टेशन   on  September  29  ,  2009  and  debuted  at  #  44 on the U.S . Billboard US Billboard Hot  देश   गीतों  chart for  the   सप्ताह  of October 10 ,  2009  .
it  was  लिखा   by  Rob Mathes and Allen Shamblin .
Utilization management is  the   मूल्यांकन   of   the   appropriateness  , medical  need  and efficiency  of  health  परवाह  services procedures and facilities according to established  मापदण्ड  or guidelines and  अंतर्गत  the  प्रावधानों  of an applicable health benefits  योजना  .
typically  it includes new activities  or  decisions based upon the analysis of a case .
Utilization management describes proactive  प्रक्रियाओं   ,   सहित  discharge planning , concurrent planning , pre-certification  और   नैदानिक   मामला   appeals   .
it  also covers  proactive  processes , such as concurrent clinical reviews and peer reviews , as well as  appeals  introduced by the provider , payer or patient .
As  pre-certification  and  संयुक्त   पुनर्विलोकन   of  cases grew ,  utilization  management spun  आउट   of   utilization  review .
जबकि   नहीं  synonymous , health  परवाह   पेशेवर   tend  to use the terms  as  interchangeable  .
the  difference is  utilization  management  is  and  intends   to  manage health  परवाह   मामले  efficiently and cost  effectively  before  और  during  स्वास्थ्य   परवाह  administration .
utilization  review is  अधिक  considering whether health care was appropriately  लागू  after  it  was administered  .
There are four basic  तकनीकों  in utilization  management:
Demand Management
Utilization Review
Case Management
Disease Management
The Outsiders  is   a  coming-of-age novel by S. E. Hinton ,  पहला  published in  1967  by Viking  दबायें  .
Hinton was 15 when she started writing the novel , but did  सबसे  of the work when she was sixteen and a junior in high school .
hinton  was 18  जब   the   किताब  was published .
The book follows  दो  rival groups , the Greasers  और  the Socs ( pronounced by the author as , short  लिये  Socials  )  , who are divided by their  socioeconomic   औकात   .
The  किताब  takes  प्लेस  in Tulsa  ,   ओक्लाहोमा  , in  1965   ,  but  it  is never stated  in  the  किताब   .
a  film adaptation was produced in 1983 ,  और  a little-known  short-lived  television series appeared in  1990  , picking up  जहाँ  the  फिल्म   बाएँ  off .
The  संयुक्त   राज्य  House  of  Representatives is one  of   the  two  घरों  of the United  राज्य  Congress  (  a bicameral legislature )  .
It is frequently referred to as the House .
The other house is the  सीनेट  .
The composition  और   शक्तियां  of  the  House are established in  आलेख  One of the United States Constitution  .
The major power of  the  House  is  to pass  संघीय  legislation  कि  affects the entire country  हालांकि  its  बिल्स   जरूर  also  be  passed by the Senate and further agreed to by the U.S.  अध्यक्ष  before becoming  विधि  ( unless  दोनो  the  हाउस  and Senate re-pass the legislation with a  two-thirds  majority in  प्रत्येक  chamber ) .
The  हाउस  has  अनेक  exclusive powers : the power to  initiate  revenue bills ,  to  impeach officials , and  to  elect  the   u.S.   अध्यक्ष  in case there  is  no majority in  the  Electoral College .
Each U.S.  राज्य  is represented in the  हाउस  in proportion to its  जनसांख्यिकी  but is entitled  to  at least one representative  .
The most populous state , California , currently has  53  representatives .
the  total  क्रमांक  of voting  प्रतिनिधि  is  फिक्स्ड   by  law  at   435  .
Each representative serves for  a  two-year  पद   .
The Speaker of the United States House of  प्रतिनिधि   ,  who  presides   over  the chamber  ,  is elected by the members of the House , and is therefore traditionally the leader  of  the House  लोकतांत्रिक   caucus   or   the   हाउस  Republican Conference ,  whichever  party  रै  more voting  सदस्यों   .
The House meets in  the   दक्षिण  wing of the United States Capitol .
A supply chain is actually a  जटिल  and  डायनेमिक   सप्लाई  and demand network .
(  cf  .  Wieland/Wallenburg  ,  2011  )
A  सप्लाई  chain is  a   प्रणाली  of organizations , people , activities  ,   सूचना  , and  संसाधन  involved in  चलती   a  product or service from supplier  to  customer  .
Supply  कड़ी  activities  रूपांतरण   प्राकृतिक  resources , raw materials  ,  and components into a finished product  कि   is   वितरित  to the  समाप्त  customer .
In sophisticated supply chain systems , used products may re-enter the  सप्लाई  chain at any point where residual  मान  is  recyclable  .
Supply chains  कड़ी  value chains .
``  जामुनी   haze  ''  is  a song written and recorded  by  Jimi Hendrix in 1967 , released as the second single  by  The  जिमि  Hendrix  अनुभव  in  दोनो  the  संयुक्त   किंगडम   और   the  United States .
It later  appeared  on the American version of  the  band 's  1967   एल्बम  Are You Experienced .
``  जामुनी   haze   ''   रै  become one of  the  `` archetypical psychedelic drug songs of the sixties ''  .
`` Purple Haze 's  ''  guitar  virtuosic  techniques would  be  emulated by many metal guitarists .
a  close up picture of a rhinoceros skin .
स्किन  is  the  soft  बाहरी   covering   of  vertebrates .
Other animal coverings such as the arthropod exoskeleton have different developmental origin , structure and chemical composition .
The adjective cutaneous  अर्थात्  `` of the  स्किन  '' (  इससे   लैटिन  cutis ,  स्किन   )  .
In mammals  ,   the  skin is the largest organ of the integumentary  प्रणाली  made  up   of  multiple layers of ectodermal  ऊतक  , and guards  the  underlying muscles , bones , ligaments  और   आतंरिक   अंगों  .
Skin of a different nature  exists  in amphibians ,  सरीसृपों   ,  and  पक्षियों   .
All  स्तनधारियों  have some hair on their skin  ,   भी   समुद्री   स्तनधारियों  which  appear  to  be  hairless  .
the  skin interfaces with  the  environment and  is  the first line of  रक्षा  from  बाह्य   कारकों   .
For example , the skin  plays  a key role in  protecting   the  body against pathogens and excessive  जल  loss .
Its  अन्य  functions  हैं  insulation ,  तापमान  regulation , sensation  ,  and the production  of  vitamin D  folates   .
severely  damaged  स्किन   may  heal by  forming  scar  ऊतक  .
इस  is  sometimes  discoloured and depigmented  .
the  thickness of skin  भी  varies from  स्थान  to location on  an   सजीव   .
In humans  लिये  example , the skin  स्तिथ  under the  आँखें  and  around   the   eyelids  is the thinnest skin in  the   देह   at  0.5 mm  मोटा  , and is  एक   of   the  first areas to  दिखाएँ   लक्षण   of   वृद्धावस्था  such  as  ``  crows  feet '' and  झुर्रियां  .
The skin on the  हथेलियां  and the soles of the feet is  4  mm  मोटा  and the thickest skin in the body .
फर   is  dense  बाल   .
Primarily ,  फर   augments   the   इन्सुलेशन   the  skin provides  लकिन  can  भी   serve   as   a  secondary sexual characteristic  or  as camouflage .
On some animals , the  स्किन  is  बहुत   मुश्किल  and  मोटा  , and  can  be processed  to  create leather  .
Reptiles and fish  have   मुश्किल  protective scales on  उनके  skin for protection , and birds  have  hard feathers  ,  all made of tough β- keratins .
Amphibian skin is not a  दमदार  barrier  to  passage of chemicals and is often subject to  परासरण  and  diffusive   शक्तियां   .
लिये  example , a  मेंढक  sitting  in  an anesthetic  समाधान   होता   be  sedated  जल्दी  ,  as  the chemical diffuses through its skin .
थामस  Scott
the   रेव  . Thomas  स्कॉट  ( 1747-1821  )   थी   an  influential preacher  और  author who is principally known for  उसके  best-selling work A Commentary On The Whole  बाइबल  and  the  Force  of  Truth , and as  एक   of  the  संस्थापकों  of the Church Missionary Society  .
Daniel Radcliffe ,  जो  portrays  हैरी  Potter , has been the  प्रतीक  of the  फिल्मी  series  चूंकि  the release of the  पहला  film in  2001  .
Some of the most  प्रसिद्ध   अभिनेताओं   of   the   संयुक्त  Kingdom and  आयरलैंड  have voiced or  portrayed  characters appearing  in  the Harry  कुम्हार  film series based on the  किताब  series  by  J. K. Rowling .
Daniel Radcliffe ,  रुपर्ट   grint  and Emma Watson have played Harry Potter  ,  Ron Weasley and  हर्माइनी  Granger  in  all the films .
When  वे  were cast only  radcliffe  had previously acted in a film  .
Complementing them  on  screen  हैं  such actors  as  Helena Bonham Carter , Jim Broadbent  ,  John Cleese ,  रोबी  Coltrane , Warwick Davis , Ralph Fiennes , Michael Gambon  ,  Brendan Gleeson , Richard  ग्रीफिथ  , Richard Harris , John Hurt ,  जेसन  Isaacs ,  miriam  Margolyes , Helen  mccrory   ,  Gary Oldman , Alan Rickman  ,  Fiona Shaw , Maggie Smith  ,  Timothy Spall ,  imelda  Staunton ,  दाउद  Thewlis , Emma Thompson , and Julie  walters  ,  among   अन्य  .
तेरह   अभिनेताओं  have  appeared  as  the  same character in all  आठ  films of the franchise .
कुछ  well-known  अंग्रेजों  actors who have not appeared in the series , are asked in jest why  वे  have  नहीं  been cast .
When  दाउद  Yates  थी  directing  the   पांचवां  film  ,  Bill Nighy , who had previously  collaborated   साथ  Yates on three of  उसके  television projects , said that  he  joked with  येट्स  that maybe now he would n't be  the   तभी  actor  in  England who had n't been  in   हैरी   कुम्हार  .
`` But nobody called  ''  ,  nighy  added .
But in 2009 ,  येट्स  cast  nighy  as Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour  in  Deathly  hallows  .
Nighy said , ``  i  am no longer the  तभी  English actor not  to   be  in Harry Potter  और  I am very pleased . ''
Jude  विधि  has quipped , `` Nobody  's  asked me .
I was a bit  too   बूढ़ा  for Harry '' .
When  a  reporter compared potions  प्राध्यापक  Horace Slughorn 's obsession with famous names  to  the series ' connection to `` every notable British actor , '' Jim Broadbent ,  जो  plays Slughorn said  ,  ``  खूब  , not  प्रत्येक   कर्ता  gets invited  .
I know  कुछ  who  हैं   स्टिल  waiting  .  ''
With the  एक्सेप्शन  of Chris Columbus , each director has had  a  cameo appearance in his respective film  :  Alfonso Cuarón appears as a  जादूगर  holding a candle during  a  scene at The Three Broomsticks in Prisoner of Azkaban ; Mike Newell is heard briefly  as  the  रेडियो  presenter in Frank Bryce  's   हाउस  in Goblet of Fire ;  और   दाउद  Yates features as a wizard within a  जादुई  moving portrait in  अनुक्रम   of  the  फीनिक्स  .
Producer  दाउद  Heyman  भी  makes a cameo appearance  as  a wizard featured within a magical  चलती   पोर्ट्रेट  in  the  third film  ,  Prisoner  of  Azkaban .
J. K.  रोलिंग   दिया  a speech  दौरान  the world premiere of the  फाइनल   फिल्मी   in   the   series—  Harry  कुम्हार   और  the  deathly  Hallows Part 2 —on 7 July 2011 in  लंदन  ,  इंग्लैण्ड   .
She  घोषित  that she could never have dreamt of the  प्रतिभाशाली  actors and actresses who have appeared in all the Harry Potter movies .
Rowling also announced  कि  there are  सात  Harry Potter film series  डाल   सदस्यों  , who she refers to as  ``  The Big  सात  '' ,  वे   हैं  Daniel  radcliffe  ,  रुपर्ट  Grint , Emma Watson  ,  Tom Felton , Matthew  लुईस  , Evanna  लिंच   और   bonnie  Wright .
The list below is  sorted  by  फिल्मी   और  character  ,  as some characters have been  portrayed   by   अनेक  actors .
कुंजी
(  v ) indicates the actor or  अभिनेत्री  lent only his or her voice for  उसके   or  her  फिल्मी  character
(  y   )   indicates   the  actor  or  actress portrayed the role in a flashback scene or when  the  character  थी  young .
(  f ) indicates the actor or actress  किया  not appear  in  any new footage for the film  ;   फुटेज   इससे   an  earlier film or films  थी  used .
A light grey cell (  ऐसे  as the one in the `` Charity Burbage  ''  row  in  the `` Philosopher 's Stone ''  कालम  )  indicates  the character was not  in  the  फिल्मी   अनुकूलन   .
a   twelve-step  program is a set of  guiding   सिद्धान्त  ( accepted by  सदस्यों   as  'spiritual principles , ' based on  the   स्वीकृत  literature ) outlining a  कोर्स   of   कार्रवाई  for recovery from , compulsion  ,   or  other behavioral problems .
Originally proposed by Alcoholics Anonymous ( AA ) as a method of recovery from  alcoholism  ,  the  Twelve  कदम  were first published in  the  book  alcoholics  Anonymous : The Story of How  अधिक  Than One Hundred Men  have  Recovered from  alcoholism   in  1939 .
the  method was then adapted  और  became the foundation  of   अन्य  twelve-step programs .
As summarized  by   the   अमरीकी   मनोवैज्ञानिक  Association , the  प्रक्रम  involves the following:
admitting   कि  one can not control  एक  's addiction or compulsion ;
recognizing a higher power that can  दे  strength ;
examining past errors  साथ  the  सहायता   of  a sponsor ( experienced  सदस्य  )  ;
बनाना  amends for these errors ;
learning to  सजीव  a new  जीवन   साथ  a new  कोड   of   बर्ताव  ;
helping others  जो  suffer from  the  same addictions or compulsions .
Witness  महाभियोग  , in the law  of  evidence of the United States  ,  is the process  of  calling  into  question  the  credibility of an  व्यक्तिगत  who is testifying in  a  trial  .
The  संघीय  Rules of  प्रमाण   contain  the rules  शासी  impeachment in federal  न्यायालयों  .
पार्टी  leaders and  whips  of the United States House  of  Representatives are elected by  उनके   संबंधित   पार्टियों  in a closed-door caucus by secret  बैलट  and are also  ज्ञात  as floor  नेताओ  .
the  U.S. House of Representatives does  नहीं  officially use the  पद  `` Minority Leader  ''  although the  मीडिया   अक्सर  do  .
The House instead  उपयोग  the terms `` Republican Leader '' or  ``   लोकतांत्रिक  Leader  ''  depending on which  पार्टी  holds a  अल्पसंख्यक  of seats .
The current  हाउस  Majority Leader is  रिपब्लिकन  Eric Cantor , while  the   वर्तमान  House Minority Leader is Democrat Nancy  pelosi   .
The current House Majority Whip is  रिपब्लिकन   केविन  McCarthy , while the current  हाउस  Minority Whip is Democrat Steny Hoyer .
Following  the   outbreak   of  World War I in 1914  ,   the   जर्मनी   फौज  opened  the  Western Front by first invading Luxembourg and Belgium , then gaining military control of important  औद्योगिक  regions in France  .
the  tide of the advance was  dramatically  turned with the  बैटल  of the Marne .
Following the race  to  the  समुद्र  , both sides dug in along a meandering line  of   fortified   trenches   ,  stretching  इससे  the  उत्तर   समुद्र  to the Swiss frontier  साथ   फ़्रांस  .
इस   लकीर  remained essentially unchanged for most of the war .
Between  1915  and  1917  there  यहूद  several major offensives  साथ   इस  front  .
The  हमले   employed  massive  तोपखाने  bombardments  और  massed  infantry  advances .
However , a combination of entrenchments , machine  गन   nests  ,  कंटीले  wire , and artillery repeatedly  inflicted   कठोर  casualties  on  the  हमलावर  and counterattacking  defenders  .
As a result ,  no  significant advances were  बना  .
among  the most costly of these offensives were the Battle of Verdun with  a  combined [ estimated ] 700,000 dead , the  बैटल  of  the   somme  with more than [ an estimated ] million  हताहत  ,  और   the  Battle of Passchendaele with roughly [ an  अनुमानित  ] 600,000 casualties  .
In  an   प्रयत्न  to break  the  deadlock ,  इस  front saw the introduction  of   नई  military technology ,  सहित  poison gas  ,  aircraft and tanks .
But it  थी  only after the adoption of improved tactics  कि  some degree of mobility  थी   लौटी  .
the  German Spring Offensive of 1918  थी   बना  possible by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk that marked the end of the  विरोध  on the Eastern  सामने   .
Using the  recently-introduced  infiltration tactics  ,   the   जर्मनी   सेना   उन्नत   nearly  to  the  west , which marked the deepest  अग्रिम  by either side since 1914 and very nearly succeeded  in   forcing  a breakthrough .
In  spite  of  the   generally  stagnant nature of this  सामने  , this  थिएटर  would prove decisive  .
The inexorable advance of  the  Allied  सेना   दौरान   the  second half of 1918 persuaded the German  कमांडरों  that defeat was  अपरिहार्य   ,   और   the  government  थी   मजबूर  to  मुकदमा  for  शर्तें  of an armistice .
The terms of peace were agreed upon with the  हस्ताक्षर  of  the  Treaty of Versailles in 1919  .
The following  is  a  सूची   of   पुनरावर्ती  and  नाबालिग  characters  in  the  डिज़्नी  Channel Original Series The Suite  जीवन  of Zack  &  Cody .
ये  characters were regularly rotated , often disappearing  लिये  long periods  दौरान  the series .
The following list  of  characters  रै  been sorted alphabetically  ,   by  first  नाम  .
Some of the characters  था  no  पिछला  name and most  यहूद  commonly referred to by  उनके   पहला  name so this appeared to be the most logical method  .
In  the  case of Chef Paolo , who  था  no known first name , they have  महरूम  listed by title .
the   पहला   महिला  of  the   संयुक्त   राज्य  ( FLOTUS )  is  the  होस्टेस  of  the  White  हाउस  .
Because this position  is  traditionally  भर   by  the wife of the President of  the  United  राज्य   ,  the title is most  प्रायः  applied to the  बीवी  of a sitting  अध्यक्ष   .
The current First Lady is  मिशेल  Obama .
After her  husband  Barack Obama was re-elected  on  November 6  ,   2012  , she  is  scheduled to  serve  until January  20  , 2017 .
Septic shock is a  चिकित्सा  condition as a result  of   कठोर  infection and sepsis , though  the  microbe may  be   प्रणालीगत  or localized to a particular site .
It can cause multiple organ dysfunction syndrome ( formerly known as multiple organ failure ) and death .
Its most  आम  victims are children ,  immunocompromised  individuals  ,  and  the   बुजुर्ग  , as their immune systems can not deal  साथ   the  infection  as  effectively as  those  of healthy  वयस्कों  .
Frequently  ,  patients suffering from septic  शॉक  are cared for in intensive  परवाह   इकाई  .
The mortality rate from septic shock  is  approximately 25–50 % .
Kevin Brereton ( born February 20 , 1972 ) ,  बेहतर  known  by  his stage  नाम  k-os ( ;  ``  chaos  ''   )   ,  is a Canadian rapper ,  सिंगर  , songwriter and record  निर्माता  .
उसके   दिए  name may also  be   cited   as  Kheaven  ,   a  spelling he later  अपनाया  .
the  alias `` k-os '' , spelled  साथ   a   निम्नतर   मामला   ``   k  ''  ,  was  intended  to be less aggressive than the pseudonyms  of  other rappers whose  names  were all upper  मामला   ,  such  as  KRS-One  .
it  is  an   एक्रोनिम  for  ``  Knowledge of Self  ,   ''  although in a later interview  he  said that  it  originally  stood  for `` Kevin 's  असली  Sound . '' k-os ' music incorporates  a  wide variety of music genres  ,  including rap  ,   दुर्गंध   ,  rock , and reggae .
The lyrics frequently focus on  promoting  a ``  धनात्मक  message  ''  while  at  times expressing  आलोचना  of  मुख्यधारा  hip  हॉप  culture  's   obsession  with money , fame and glorification  of  violence .
A  संगीतकार  as well as  a  producer , k-os has  लिखा  and produced  nearly   प्रत्येक   भाग   of  all  चार  of  उसके  albums .
k-os usually performs  साथ  a  सजीव   बैंड   ,   कुछ   कि  is uncommon in  the  hip hop  विधा  .
He sometimes  plays  guitar and keyboard  दोनो  during  सजीव  performances  और  in  the  studio .
k-os  received his  पहला  musical exposure with  the  single ``  musical  Essence '' , released  in   1993  .
After the release  of   उसके  second single  ``   वृद्धि  Like the Sun '' in  1996  , he  withdrew   इससे  the  उद्योग  because he was dissatisfied with  उसके  musical  स्टाइल   .
he  reappeared briefly in 1999  और   released   उसके  debut album Exit  in   2002  .
the  album received positive reviews but  बेची  relatively  few  copies .
he   released  his  दूसरी  album Joyful Rebellion  in  2004  ,  which received platinum status  in  Canada .
a  third  एल्बम  , , was released in  2006   और  also went platinum .
His fourth album , Yes  !
, was released in 2009 .
उसके   पांचवां  album  ब्लैक  on BLonde was released in  2013  .
The  आधिकारिक  2007 edition of the UCC  .
Even the confidential rough drafts of the UCC were saved  और   प्रकाशित  as a  10-volume  set .
the  Uniform Commercial  कोड   (  UCC or the Code ) , first  प्रकाशित  in 1952 , is one of a  क्रमांक  of uniform acts that have  महरूम  promulgated in conjunction  साथ   प्रयत्न   to  harmonize the law  of   बिक्री  and other  वाणिज्यिक  transactions in all 50 states within  the  United States  of  America  .
Multi-pitch climbing is the ascent  of  climbing routes with one or more stops  at  a belay station  .
Each  खण्ड  of actual climbing between stops at the belay stations is called  a   पिच  .
The leader  ascends  the  पिच   ,   रखकर   गियर   और  stopping to anchor themselves  to  the  belay  station .
The reason for the  stops  can be determined  by  choice  ,  convention or necessity  .
लिये   example:
The rope  is  too short to do the entire route  in  one  पिच   (  necessity ) .
The leader has run  आउट   of   सुरक्षात्मक  gear  (   necessity  )  .
There is a  सुविधाजनक  protectable ledge ,  or   फिक्स्ड   bolts   लगाई   by   पिछला  climbers , at the location for  a  belay station  (  convention ) .
The leader chooses  to  rest  or   एक्सचेंज  leads  पहले  the next section  of   the  climb ( choice ) .
The  सामान्य   purpose  of these stops is to allow the  दूसरी   to  ascend to the  पाइंट  of the lead climber while collecting  the  protective gear from  the  route in  the  course of the lead  climber  's  ascent  .
at   the  belay  स्टेशन   ,   the  protective  गियर  is collected , possibly exchanged to a new leader  ,  and the leader of  the   अगला   पिच  ascends the route  .
A  आरेख   प्रर्दशित  an  i  Formation on offense and a 4-3  गठन  on defense
in  American football , each team has eleven players  on   the   फ़ील्ड   at  one time .
The  विशिष्ट   भूमिका  that a player takes on  the  field is called their  स्थिति  .
अंतर्गत  the modern rules of American football , teams are  अनुमत  unlimited  subsititutions  , that is  टीमों  may change any number of players after any play .
This has resulted in the  विकास   of  three `` platoons '' of  खिलाड़ी  , the  ठोकर  ( the  टोली  with the ball , who is  trying  to  स्कोर  )  ,  the  रक्षा  ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring , and  to  take the ball from  उन्हें  ) ,  और  the special  टीमों  (  जो  play in kicking situations ) .
Within those platoons , various specific positions exist  depending  on what the player 's  प्रमुख  job is .
the   नियंत्रित  Substances Act ( CSA  )  was  enacted  into law  by  the  कॉंग्रेस   of  the  संयुक्त  States as Title  ii  of  the   व्यापक  Drug Abuse Prevention and  कंट्रोल   अधिनियम  of 1970 .
The  सीएसए  is the federal  u.S.   ड्रग   नीति  under which  the  manufacture , importation , possession , use and distribution  of   निश्चित  substances is regulated .
The Act  भी  served as the national implementing  विधान   लिये  the Single Convention on  narcotic  Drugs .
the   विधान   निर्मित  five Schedules ( classifications ) , with varying  योग्यता   लिये  a substance to  be  included in each .
Two federal agencies , the  ड्रग  Enforcement  प्रशासन  and  the  Food and Drug  प्रशासन  , determine  जिससे  substances are added to or removed  इससे  the various schedules , though the statute passed  by   कॉंग्रेस  created the initial listing  ,   और  Congress  रै   sometimes   अनुसूचित   अन्य   substances   through  legislation  ऐसे  as the Hillory  J.   farias  and Samantha Reid  date-rape  Prevention Act of  2000  ,  जिससे  placed  गामा  hydroxybutyrate in Schedule  i   .   वर्गीकरण   निर्णय  are  जरूरी   to   be  made on criteria including potential  लिये   गाली  (  an  undefined  पद  ) , currently accepted medical  उपयोग  in  उपचार  in the  संयुक्त  States  ,   और   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  treaties  .
The  वेन  Route 23 Transit  बीच  is  a   नई   जर्सी   पारगमन   park-and-ride  station in Wayne ,  नई  Jersey along the  montclair-boonton  Line  कि  provides bus service to  नई   यॉर्क  City and various other points  in  the area as well as  montclair-boonton  Line train  सेवा   to  New York , Hoboken ,  और   इंटरमीडिएट  points along  the  line between Hackettstown and Montclair  राज्य   विश्वविद्यालयों  .
It  is  located off  of  the southbound lanes of New  जर्सी  Route 23 on West Belt  सड़क  , near the interchange where Route 23 , Interstate  80  , and U.S.  रूट  46 meet , across from  the   willowbrook   मॉल   .
the   स्टेशन  opened in  जनवरी  2008 and  रै  1,000 parking spaces .
New Jersey Transit  intends  for this combined  रेल   और  bus station to become an `` interceptor station , '' that  होगा  help relieve the habitual  जमघट  at the West Belt  सड़क  Interchange , where the three  प्रमुख  highways  मिलें  .
in   जोड  , the  निर्माण  of the station was meant  to   भी   आसानी   the  congestion at  कया   थी  then  रूट  23 Park  &   सवारी   ,  a bus depot on  रूट  23 North that has  चूंकि  been renamed Mother  's  Park & Ride , and the  willowbrook  Mall  पार्क  &  सवारी  ; the now-Mother 's site  था   सीमित  parking while NJT was having trouble with overfull parking areas  at   willowbrook  .
The Wayne Township bus  गैरेज  is located on the opposite  पक्ष  of  रूट  23  .
There  रै  been a proposal to  निर्माण   a  parking deck with  another  thousand  धब्बे  and develop the  जमीन  at  the   स्टेशन   .
in  addition to Montclair-Boonton trains  ,   the  Transit Center is served  by  the following  नई  Jersey  पारगमन  bus lines:
75  to Newark Penn Station and Butler
194  to  Port Authority Bus  टर्मिनल  and Butler/Newfoundland
198 to  बंदरगाहों   प्राधिकार  Bus  टर्मिनल  and William Paterson University
324  to Port Authority  और  Wayne Route  23
748  to Willowbrook Mall and Paterson
The  at  sign @  is   भी   commonly  called  the   at  symbol  ,  ampersat  ,   apetail  or commercial at in  english—and   कम  commonly  a  wide range of other  शर्तें   .
The fact  कि  there is no  सिंगल  word  in   अंग्रेज़ी  for  the  symbol has prompted some writers to use the French  arobase  or Spanish and Portuguese arroba—or to coin  नई  words  ऐसे  as asperand , ampersat—but none of  ये  has  हासिल  wide currency .
Originally  an   हिसाब  and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning  ``  at the rate of '' ( e.g . 7 widgets @ $ 2 = $ 14 ) ,  it   थी   नहीं  included on  the  keyboard of the earliest commercially successful typewriters , but was on  at  least one 1889  मॉडल  and the very successful Underwood  मॉडल  from  the  `` Underwood No  .  5 '' in  1900  onward .
It  is   अभी  universally  शामिल   on  computer keyboards  .
In recent years  ,  its  अर्थ  has grown to include the sense of being `` located at , '' `` and , '' or `` directed  at  '' , especially in email addresses  और  social media , particularly Twitter .
the   चिह्नित  is  एनकोडेड  at .
The Catcher in  the  Rye  is  a 1951 novel by J. D.  salinger   .
originally   प्रकाशित  for adults , it has since become popular with adolescent readers for  इसके  themes of teenage angst  और  alienation  .
It  रै  been translated into  लगभग  all of  the  world 's major languages .
around  250,000 copies are sold each  साल   साथ  total sales of more  than  65 million books  .
the  novel 's protagonist  और   antihero  , Holden Caulfield ,  रै   become  an icon for teenage  विद्रोह  .
The novel was  शामिल   on   टाइम्स   2005  list of the  100   बेहतरीन  English-language novels  लिखा  since 1923  ,  and it was named by Modern Library  और  its readers as  एक  of the  100  best English-language  novels   of  the  20th  century  .
It has been  अक्सर   challenged  in the United  राज्य  and  अन्य   देशों   लिये  its  उदार  use  of   profanity   और  portrayal  of  sexuality .
It  भी  deals  साथ  complex issues  of   पहचान  , belonging , connection , and alienation .
Skeletal  मांसपेशियां   होमो  sapiens
This is  a   तालिका   of   मांसपेशियां   of  the human anatomy .
There are  लगभग  642 skeletal  मांसपेशियां  within the typical  इंसान  , and almost  प्रत्येक  muscle constitutes one part of a  जोड़ी  of identical bilateral muscles ,  मिला   on   दोनो   पहलू   ,   resulting   in  approximately 320 pairs of muscles ,  as  presented in this  आलेख   .
nevertheless   ,  the exact  क्रमांक   is  difficult to  define  because different sources group muscles  differently  ,  e.g  . regarding  कया   is  defined  as  different  भाग   of  a single  मांसपेशी  or  as  several  मांसपेशियां  .
Examples range  इससे  640  to   850  .
The muscles of  the  human body  can  be  categorized   into  a number of groups which include  मांसपेशियां   relating  to the  सिर  and neck , muscles of the torso or trunk  ,   मांसपेशियां  of the upper  limbs   ,  and muscles of the lower  limbs  .
the  action  refers   to   the  action  of   प्रत्येक  muscle from the  मानक   anatomical  position .
In other positions , other  क्रियाएँ  may be  performed  .
Bad Girls Club (  bgc  ) is  an   अमरीकी  reality television  श्रेणी   निर्मित  by  जोनाथन  Murray for the Oxygen  टेलीविज़न  station  .
the  show centers on seven feisty and mischievous  महिलाओं  with different backgrounds and personalities , who have a  क्रमांक  of psychological  और  behavioral problems .
They are introduced  to   the  show off their pernicious behavior and accomplish specific goals  .
The  डाल  , deemed `` bad girls '' , enjoy a luxurious lifestyle  in   a   ठीक  mansion  लिये  three  महीने  , during which they must obey specified rules .
Their lives inside –  और  outside – of  the  house are chronicled and  अंकित  by the production team  .
the  Bad  लड़कियों  Club  is  broadcast  in  five countries ( United States , Netherlands , Australia ,  हंगेरियाई  ,  और   स्वीडन   )   .
it  has received negative reviews from  आलोचकों   ,  who believe the show  promotes  violence  by  adolescent viewers .
Furthermore ,  अनेक  cast members made controversial  remarks  which outraged many viewers .
The format of the show has  बदला   इससे  early seasons .
If a `` bad  लड़की  '' breaks a  नियम  , she is  evicted  from  the  show and  ,  if it is  जल्दी   in  the season ,  replaced  by a new `` bad  लड़की  ''  .
There have been nine  पूरा  seasons of The Bad Girls Club ,  साथ  the tenth season currently airing .
The fourth season had the  उच्चतम   दरजा  in the  दिखाएँ  's history , becoming its  ``  breakthrough  ऋतु  '' .
There  have  been  तीन  spin-offs of The Bad  लड़कियों  Club .
One of them ,  प्रेम  Games  :   ख़राब  Girls Need Love Too  ,  where past cast  सदस्यों  seek true love  ,   रै  gained high  दरजा  .
Oxygen  रै  also released a mobile game , comic  स्ट्रिप   और  merchandise to promote the show .
of  the  92  contestants , Kerry Harvick ( of  ऋतु   एक  ) was a successful country singer before the show  .
Tanisha Thomas ( of  ऋतु  two )  बाद  hosted Oxygen 's  oxygenlive  !
और   the   subsequent  seasons of Love Games :  ख़राब  Girls Need  प्रेम   too   .
Thomas , who has been  उतावले  the `` godmother '' to all contestants , has  उसके   अपना  television  वृत्तचित्र  entitled Tanisha Gets Married  .
As of Season  8  she 's  महरूम   the  host of the reunion specials .
The Iowa  सीनेट  is the upper  हाउस  of the Iowa  सामान्य  Assembly  .
वहीँ  are 50 seats in  the   आयोवा   सीनेट   ,  representing 50  single-member  districts across the state  साथ   populations  of  लगभग  60,927 per constituency ,  .
प्रत्येक  Senate  ज़िला  is  रचित  of  दो  House districts .
the  Senate meets  at  the Iowa  राज्य  Capitol in Des Moines .
Unlike the lower house , the Iowa House  of  Representatives ,  सीनेटरों  serve four-year terms , with  हाफ  of the  सीनेट  staggered for re-election  प्रत्येक  two years .
There are no term limits for the  सीनेट   .
Mechanical repair
Maintenance , repair ,  और  operations (  mro  )  or  maintenance  ,  repair  ,   और   overhaul  involves  फिक्सिंग  any sort  of  mechanical  ,  plumbing or electrical  यंत्र   चाहिए   it   become  out  of  order  or  broken ( known as  मरम्मत  , unscheduled  or  casualty  मेंटेनेंस   )   .
it  also  शामिल   performing  routine actions which  रखना  the device  in   working  order  (  known  as  scheduled  मेंटेनेंस   )   or   prevent  trouble from  arising   (   निवारक  maintenance  )  .
mro  may  be  defined  as  , `` All actions which have the  उद्देश्य  of  retaining   or  restoring  an  item in  or   to  a  राज्य  in which it can perform  इसके  required function  .
The actions include the  संयोजन   of  all  तकनीकी  and corresponding administrative  ,  managerial , and supervision actions . ''
MRO  परिचालन   can  be  categorised  by  whether   the  product  remains  the  प्रॉपर्टी  of  the  customer  ,  i.e . a service  is  being offered ,  or   whether  the  उत्पाद  is bought by the reprocessing  संगठन  and  बेची   to  any  ग्राहक   wishing  to make the  खरीदें  (  guadette   ,  2002  )  .
In  the   पूर्व  case it may  be  a  backshop  operation within a larger  संगठन   or  smaller  आपरेशन  .
The former  of  these  represents  a closed loop supply chain and  प्रायः  has the scope of maintenance , repair  or  of  the  product .
the  latter of  the  categorisations is an open loop supply chain and  is  typified by refurbishment  और  remanufacture  .
the  main characteristic of  the  closed loop system is that the  माँग  for a  उत्पाद  is matched  साथ  the supply  of  a used product .
Neglecting asset write-offs and exceptional activities  the  total population of the  उत्पाद  between the  ग्राहक  and the service provider remains constant  .
Prince William , Duke  of   कैम्ब्रिज  ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21  जून   1982  )  ,  is the elder son of Charles ,  प्रिंस  of  वेल्स  , and Diana , Princess of  वेल्स  , and third-eldest grandchild of Queen  एलिज़ाबेथ  II and Prince  फिलिप  , Duke  of  Edinburgh  .
He is  दूसरी  in  the  line of  उत्तराधिकार   ,   पीछे  his father ,  to  the thrones  of  sixteen independent sovereign states known  as   the  Commonwealth realms  :  the  संयुक्त  Kingdom  ,  Canada ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , New  जीलैंड   ,  Jamaica  ,  Barbados , The Bahamas ,  हरा   ,   पापुआ   नई  Guinea  ,   the  Solomon  आइलैंड्स   ,  Tuvalu , Saint Lucia  ,  Saint  विंसेंट  and the Grenadines ,  बेलीज़   ,   अण्टीगुआ   और  Barbuda , and  संत   किट्स  and Nevis  .
Prince  विलियम  was educated at four  स्कूलों  in the  संयुक्त  Kingdom  और  obtained a degree from  the  University of  st   एंड्रयूज  .
He spent  भाग  of a  गैप  year  in  Chile  ,  Belize , Tanzania , and Kenya where  he  has  जिया  and holidayed several times .
Prince William has  भी  taken Kiswahili studies at universities in Kenya and  तंजानिया  .
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in  the   ब्लूज़   और   रॉयल्स  Regiment  of  the  household  Cavalry  —serving  with  उसके   bhai   प्रिंस  Harry  —and   ,  two years later ,  अर्जित  his wings  by   completing   पायलट   प्रशिक्षण  at Royal Air Force  कॉलेज  Cranwell .
In 2009 , he  transferred   to  the Royal Air Force , was promoted to  उड़ान   लेफ्टिनेंट   और  underwent helicopter flying  प्रशिक्षण   in   अनुक्रम  to become  a  full-time  पायलट  with the  ढूंढें  and  बचाव   फ़ोर्स  .
in  2010 , he completed his  सामान्य  and special-to-type  हेलीकाप्टर   प्रशिक्षण  and went on to  raf  Valley on No .  22  Squadron performing  co-pilot  duties  on   फलक   a  Sea King search  और  rescue  हेलीकाप्टर  .
Prince  विलियम   शादीशुदा  his longtime girlfriend , Catherine Middleton , on 29 April  2011  at Westminster Abbey .
घंटों   prior  to his  विवाह  , Prince  विलियम   थी   निर्मित   ड्यूक   of  Cambridge , Earl of Strathearn  ,   और  Baron Carrickfergus .
deandre  Cortez  रास्ता   (  born July 28 , 1990 ) ,  बेहतर   ज्ञात  by  उसके  stage name Soulja Boy Tell 'Em ,  or  simply Soulja  लड़के  ,  is  an  अमरीकी  rapper , record producer  ,  actor , and  उद्योगों  .
in  September 2007 , his single ``  crank  That  (  Soulja  लड़के  ) `` reached number one on the Billboard Hot  100  .
The single was initially self-published  on   the   अंतरजाल  , and  it  later  became   a  number-one  hit   in  the United  राज्य  for seven non-consecutive weeks  starting  in  सितंबर  2007 .
On  अगस्त  17 Way  थी  listed at # 18  on  the Forbes list of Hip-Hop Cash Kings  of  2010 earning $ 7  लाख  for  कि  year .
Way has currently released three studio  एल्बम  and  एक   स्वतंत्र  album :  उसके   डेब्यू  studio  एल्बम  Souljaboytellem.com (  2007  ) was  certified  platinum by  the   riaa   .
However , his next  दो  albums  ,  iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008  )  and  the  DeAndre  रास्ता  ( 2010 ) did  नहीं  match  the   वाणिज्यिक  success of his  डेब्यू  ,  the  latter only selling  100,000  copies , despite  the  success of  अनेक  singles across  दोनो  albums , such as  ``  Kiss Me Thru  the  Phone  ``  and `` Turn  my  Swag On  ``  (  isouljaboytellem  )  और   ``  Pretty  लड़के  Swag `` (  the  DeAndre Way ) .
This was  मुख्यतः  due to negotiation problems with Interscope Records  जिससे  meant  a  limited amount of records were  बना   उपलब्धियाँ  to the  पब्लिक   .
As of 2011 , Way has confirmed he is working  on  his fourth studio  एल्बम  , entitled USA DRE , which will  be  released in 2013 .
The electron transport  कड़ी   in   the   सूत्रकणिका   is   the  site of  oxidative  phosphorylation  in  eukaryotes  .
The NADH and succinate generated  in   the   साइट्रिक  acid cycle  हैं  oxidized , providing  उर्जा  to power ATP synthase  .
photosynthetic  electron  हस्तांतरण  chain  of  the thylakoid  झिल्ली  .
An electron  हस्तांतरण   कड़ी   (  ETC  )  couples  इलेक्ट्रॉन  transfer  between  an  इलेक्ट्रॉन   दाता  ( such as  nadh  ) and an  इलेक्ट्रॉन   acceptor  (  ऐसे  as  o2  ) with the  ट्रांसफ़र   of  H+ ions ( protons  )  across a membrane .
The  resulting  electrochemical  प्रोटॉन  gradient  is  used to generate chemical energy in the form of  एडीनोसिन  triphosphate ( ATP  )  .
इलेक्ट्रॉन  transport  जंजीरों  are the  सेल्यूलर  mechanisms used for  extracting  energy  इससे  sunlight  in   photosynthesis  and also from  रेडॉक्स   प्रतिक्रियाएँ  , such as the  ऑक्सीकरण  of sugars (  श्वसन   )  .
In chloroplasts  ,  light  ड्राइव   the   परिवर्तन  of water to oxygen and NADP+ to NADPH with transfer of H+  ions  across chloroplast  झिल्लियों   .
in   mitochondria  , it  is  the conversion  of  oxygen  to  water  ,   nadh   to   naD+   और   succinate   to  fumarate that are required to generate the  प्रोटॉन   अनुपात  .
Electron transport chains are  प्रमुख   साइट  of premature electron  leakage   to  oxygen ,  generating  superoxide and potentially resulting in increased oxidative stress  .
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as  conzip  , Ryzolt ,  ultracet  , Ultram in  the  USA  ,  Ralivia , Zytram XL  durella  { CR-100/200 mg }  in  Canada or Adolonta in Spain ) is a centrally  एक्टिंग   सिंथेटिक  analgesic used  to  treat moderate  to  moderately severe pain  .
The  ड्रग  has  a   चौड़ी  range of  अनुप्रयोग   ,  including treatment  of  rheumatoid  गठिया  , restless legs  सिंड्रोम  ,  मोटर  neurone  बीमारी  and fibromyalgia .
It  थी   शुभारम्भ   और  marketed as  tramal  by  the  German pharmaceutical company  grünenthal  GmbH  in  1977 .
tramadol   is  a  कमजोर  μ-opioid receptor  agonist  that  भी   induces   serotonin  release and inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine .
tramadol   is  metabolized to O-desmethyltramadol ,  a  significantly more potent μ-opioid agonist .
tramadol  and its major metabolite ( s ) are  विशिष्ट  from  अन्य   अधिक   potent   opioid  agonists  by  relative  selectivity  for μ-opioid receptors  .
Bernard Lawrence ``  बर्नी   ''  Madoff ( ; born April 29 ,  1938  ) is an American former  stockbroker  , investment advisor , financier , and white collar  दण्ड  .
He is the former non-executive Chairman of the NASDAQ stock market , and the admitted  ऑपरेटर  of a  पेन्शन  scheme  कि   is   माना  to be the  largest  financial fraud in U.S.  इतिहास   .
Madoff founded  the   वॉल  Street  कड़  Bernard L.  madoff   निवेश  Securities  llc  in 1960  ,   और  was its chairman  जबतक   उसके  arrest on December  11  ,  2008  .
the   कड़  was  एक  of the top market  मेकर  businesses on Wall Street , which bypassed `` specialist  ''  firms by  सीधे  executing orders over the counter from retail brokers .
He employed  at  the  कड़  his brother Peter as Senior Managing Director and Chief Compliance Officer ; Peter  रै  since been sentenced to 10 years in  थाना  .
Peter 's daughter Shana Madoff as the firm 's rules  और  compliance  अधिकारी  and attorney , and  उसके  sons Andrew and Mark ( Mark committed suicide by  फांसी  exactly two  सालो  after  उसके   पिता   's  arrest )  .
On  दिसम्बर  10 ,  2008  , Madoff 's sons told authorities that  उनके  father had confessed  to  them that  the   एसेट   प्रबन्धन  unit of  उसके   कड़   थी  a massive Ponzi  योजना  ,  और   कोटेड  him  as   describing  it  as  `` one  बिग   झूठ  .  ''
The following day  ,   एफबीआई  agents arrested Madoff  और  charged him with  एक  count of  प्रतिभूति   धोखाधड़ी  .
The  u.S.  Securities  और  Exchange Commission ( SEC ) had previously conducted  investigations   into  Madoff 's business  practices   ,   लकिन   किया  not uncover the  विशाल   धोखाधड़ी  .
In  कूच   2009   ,  Madoff  pleaded  guilty  to  11 federal felonies  और  admitted to turning his wealth management  कारोबार  into a  विशाल  Ponzi  योजना  that defrauded thousands of  निवेशकों   of   अरबों  of dollars .
madoff   कहा  he began the Ponzi  योजना  in the early 1990s  .
however  , federal  जांचकर्ताओं  believe  the  fraud  began  as  जल्दी  as  the  1970s , and those charged  साथ  recovering the missing money  मानना  the investment operation  may   never  have  महरूम  legitimate .
The amount  लापता  from  क्लाएंट   खाते  ,  सहित  fabricated gains  ,  was almost  $  65 billion  .
The  court-appointed  trustee estimated  वास्तविक  losses to investors of $ 18 billion .
On June 29 , 2009 , he was sentenced to  150  years in prison ,  the  maximum allowed .
Administrative Professionals Day  (   भी  known as  secretaries   दिन  or Admin  दिन  ) is an unofficial  धर्मनिरपेक्ष   अवकाश  observed  in   अनेक  countries to recognize the work of  secretaries  , administrative  assistants   ,  receptionists  ,  and  अन्य  administrative support professionals .
In North  अमेरिका  , it is celebrated on the  बुधवार   of  the  पिछला  full week of April  (  April 24 in 2013 )  .
In France  it  is  मनाये   on   the  third  गुरुवार  in  अप्रैल  ( April 18 in 2013 ) .
In  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  it is celebrated  on   the  first Friday in May
A quasi-judicial body is an entity such as an arbitrator  or  tribunal board  ,   generally   of  a public administrative agency  ,  which  रै  powers and procedures resembling  those  of a court of law or  न्यायधीश   ,   और  which is obligated to objectively  determine  facts  और  draw  conclusions   इससे  them so as  to  provide  the  basis of an  आधिकारिक   कार्रवाई  .
Such  क्रियाएँ  are able to remedy a situation  or  impose legal  दंड  ,  और  may affect the  विधिक  rights ,  कर्तव्य  or privileges of specific parties .
स्मारक  of  tycho   ब्राहे  and Johannes Kepler in Prague
Tycho  ब्राहे   (   14  December 154624 October 1601 ) , born Tyge Ottesen Brahe , was a  डैनिश  nobleman  ज्ञात  for his accurate and  व्यापक  astronomical  और   ग्रहीय   observations  .
He was born in  स्कैनिया  ,  तब  part of  डेनमार्क  ,  अभी  part of modern-day  स्वीडन  .
tycho  was  खूब  known in his lifetime as an astronomer  और  alchemist .
In his De nova  स्टेला   (  On the new star ) of 1573  ,  he  refuted  the Aristotelian  विश्वास  in an unchanging celestial realm .
His  precise  measurements indicated  कि  ``  नई  stars  ,   ''   (  stellae novae ,  अभी  known as  supernovae  ) in particular  कि   of  1572 , lacked the parallax expected in  sub-lunar  phenomena  ,  and were therefore not ``  वायुमंडलीय  '' tailless comets  as  previously believed ,  लकिन   यहूद  above  the  atmosphere  और   चंद्रमा  .
Using similar measurements  he  showed that comets were  भी   नहीं   वायुमंडलीय  phenomena ,  as  previously thought , and must  pass  through  the   माना  `` immutable '' celestial  spheres  .
As an  astronomer  , Tycho worked  to  combine what he  देखी   as  the geometrical benefits of the Copernican system with the philosophical benefits of the Ptolemaic system into  उसके  own model of  the  universe , the Tychonic system .
Furthermore , he was the last of the major naked eye astronomers  ,  working without telescopes for his  observations  .
Tycho Brahe was granted an estate  on   the  island of Hven and the  funding  to  निर्माण  the Uraniborg  ,  an early  शोध   संस्थान  ,  जहाँ  he built large astronomical  यंत्र  and took many careful measurements , and later Stjerneborg , underground ,  जब  he discovered that his  यंत्र   in   the   पूर्व   यहूद   नहीं  sufficiently steady .
On the island ( on  जिससे  he demonstrated autocratic  अक्षर  and behavior toward  the   निवासियों  )  he  founded manufactories such as  paper-making  to  provide   सामग्री  for printing his results .
After  मतभिन्नता   साथ  the new Danish king Christian IV in 1597 , he was  आमंत्रित  by the Bohemian king  और   पावन  Roman emperor Rudolph II  to  Prague ,  जहाँ  he became  the  official imperial astronomer .
He built the new  वेधशाला  at Benátky nad Jizerou .
यहाँ  ,  इससे  1600 until his death  in  1601 ,  he  was assisted by Johannes Kepler who  बाद  used  tycho  's  खगोलीय  data  to   develop  Kepler 's laws of planetary motion .
Guro  ज़िला   (  Guro-gu  )   is   a   ज़िला   of  Seoul  ,  South  कोरियाई  , which was separated from Yeongdeungpo  ज़िला  on April 1  ,  1980  .
स्तिथ  in  the   southwestern   भाग  of the city , where besides Yangcheon  ज़िला   और   geumcheon   ज़िला  Guro District has  an   महत्वपूर्ण  position  as  a transport link which  contains   railroads  , land  रूट  from the rest  of  Seoul to the south of the  देश  .
The  gyeongbu   और   gyeongin  railway lines connect  सियोल  to Busan  और  Incheon .
In  जोड  ,  सियोल  Metropolitan Subway lines  1  ,  2   ,  and  7   ,   और  major highways intersect in Guro  ज़िला  .
the  name  guro  originates from the legend that nine (  )   बूढ़ा  men (  कोरियाई  : ro )  enjoyed  longevity in the district .
a  digital industrial complex  is   स्तिथ  in Guro District .
The Guro Digital Industrial  जटिल  , which  निभाई   a  leading industrial role mainly with  वस्त्र   निर्माण   ,  dressmaking  और   अन्य   labour-intensive  industries  in  1967 , has been rapidly changed  into  an IT industrial complex .
This  जटिल  played a pivotal role in the  आर्थिक   विकास  of the  दक्षिण  Korea 's  विकास  era , referred to as  the   ``  Miracle on the Han River `` ,  और  also contributed 10 percent of  नेशनल   निर्यात  in the 1970s  .
twenty-one  percent of the total  क्षेत्रफल  of  guro   ज़िला  is a restricted zone to  be  used  as  a  greenbelt  with the only arboretum  in   सियोल   .
The zone is changing into a lively district as large labour-intensive factories are moving  इससे  the area and the council is developing  कया   it  terms its  चार   zones  .
An ``  e-government  `` system based on this hosted the international  e-participation  forum on February 7–9 , 2007 , with the  भागीदारी  of more than  thirty-seven   देशों  .
The forum  थी  launched with  the  theme `` Promoting  लोकतंत्र  and Regional  विकास   ''   और   twenty-five  mayors  सहित  André Santini (  issy-les-moulineaux  , France ) , Kevin Foy  (  Chapel Hill , US ) , Apirak  kosayothin   (  Bangkok ,  थाईलैंड   )  , Uvais  मोहम्मद   emthiyas  ( Colombo ,  श्री  Lanka ) , and world experts  ऐसे   as   dr   विलियम  H. Dutton  (  Director of Oxford Internet  संस्थान  at the University of  ऑक्सफोर्ड  ,  uk  )  और  Dr Ari-Veiko Anttiroiko ( professor at the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of  tampere  , Finland ) participated  in  the forum .
The Guro Declaration , adopted during the  फ़ोरम  ,  aims   to  set up a portal site for e-government development  और   to  establish a concrete project in  अनुक्रम  to bridge the digital divide among the  संसार  's  शहरों   .
This practice has been recognised for providing  a   नई  important step  in   the  development of  e-democracy  .
The e-participation  फ़ोरम  was a key factor for Guro  to  play the leading  भूमिका  in bridging the  डिजिटल  divide  among  cities , to provide  i.t  . enterprises  स्तिथ  in Guro  डिजिटल  Industrial Complex  the  opportunity  to  launch into the international market ,  to   improve  its  चित्र  and become a global leader  to  concrete e-democracy  .
The international  e-participation  forum on February 7–9 , 2007
a   wonton  ( also  spelled   wantan  , wanton , or wuntun in transcription  इससे  Cantonese ; Mandarin :  húndùn  ) is a  प्रकार  of dumpling  commonly  found in  a  number of Chinese cuisines .
Many people  यहूद  involved in the  आविष्कार  of  रेडियो  as  we  now know  it  .
Several  संभावित  methods of  बेतार  communication were considered ,  सहित  inductive and  capacitive   प्रेरण  and transmission through the ground , however the method used for radio today exclusively involves the transmission  और  reception of  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  waves .
बाद   जल्दी   अटकलें   on   the   विषय  , experimental work on the  कनेक्शन  between  विद्युत  and magnetism began  around  1820 with  the  work of Hans  ईसाई  Ørsted and continued  साथ  the work  of  André-Marie  एम्पीयर  , Joseph Henry ,  और  Michael Faraday .
These investigations  culminated   in  the  पूरा  theory of electromagnetism  विकसित   by  James  क्लर्क   मैक्सवेल  .
This  सिद्धान्त  described the  सैद्धांतिक  basis  of   the   propagation   of   इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक   लहरें  .
After  मैक्सवेल   's   सिद्धान्त  was published  अनेक  people experimented with wireless communication  ,  some  intentionally  using Maxwell 's theory some not  .
It is considered likely that the first intentional  हस्तांतरण  of  a  signal  by  means  of  electromagnetic waves was performed  by  David Edward Hughes around 1880 ,  हालांकि  this was considered  to   be  induction at  the  time .
The first systematic  और   unequivocal  transmission  of  EM  लहरें   थी   performed  by Heinrich  रुडॉल्फ   हर्ट्ज़   और  described in papers published in  1887  and 1890 .
Hertz famously considered  ये   परिणाम   as  being of little practical value .
After Hertz 's work many people were involved  in   the  development of components and theory  शामिल  with  the  transmission and reception of electromagnetic  लहरें   .
Others ,  notably  Guglielmo Marconi , were  चिंतित  with practical improvements and the commercial application  of  radio  to   बेतार   telegraphy   .
बाद   on  Reginald  A.   fessenden   became  the first to send an audio signal by means  of  electromagnetic waves .
Scurvy  is  a disease resulting from  a  deficiency  of  vitamin  c  , which is  जरूरी  for the synthesis of collagen in humans .
The chemical name for vitamin C  ,  ascorbic acid  ,   is   निकला  from the Latin name of scurvy , scorbutus , which  भी   provides  the  क्रियाशील  scorbutic ( ``  of  , characterized  by  or having to do with scurvy ''  )   .
Scurvy often  presents  itself initially  as  symptoms of malaise  और  lethargy  ,  followed by  गठन   of  spots on  the  skin , spongy  मसूड़ों  ,  और  bleeding from  the  mucous membranes .
Spots are  सबसे  abundant  on   the  thighs and legs , and a person with the ailment looks pale , feels depressed  ,  and  is  partially  immobilized  .
as  scurvy  अग्रिम  ,  वहीँ  can be open  ,  suppurating  wounds   ,  loss of  दांत  , jaundice  ,   ज्वर  , neuropathy and death .
Scurvy was at one time common among  sailors  ,  pirates  and others aboard  जहाजों  at  समुद्र  longer  than   perishable  fruits  और   सब्जियां  could be stored (  subsisting  instead only on cured  और  salted  meats  and  सूखी  grains ) and  by   सैनिको  similarly  वंचित  of  ये  foods for extended periods  .
it  was described by  हिपोक्रेटिस  ( c.  460   bc–c  . 380 BC )  ,  and  हर्बल  cures for scurvy have been known in many  देशी  cultures since prehistory .
स्कर्वी   थी  one  of   the  limiting factors  of  marine travel , often killing large numbers of the passengers  और   क्रू   on  long-distance voyages .
This became a  significant  issue in Europe  इससे  the  शुरूआत  of the modern era in the Age  of  Discovery in  the  15th century , continuing  to  play a  significant  role through World  युद्ध  I in the 20th  सदी  .
While today  स्कर्वी  is known  to  be  caused  by  a   nutritional  deficiency ,  जबतक   the  isolation  of  vitamin C  और  direct evidence  of  its link to scurvy in 1932 , numerous theories  और  treatments  यहूद  proposed  ,  often on little  or   no  experimental  आंकड़ा  .
This inconsistency is attributed to  the  lack of  विटामिन  C as a distinct  अवधारणा  , an inability to  reliably  link different foods  (   notably  present in  भैस  citrus , watercress  ,   और   अंग  meat ) to scurvy .
An  अतिरिक्त  concept  जरूरी   to  understand scurvy was the degradation of vitamin C  by  exposure  to  air and copper and  अन्य   परिवर्तन  metal  लवण   ऐसे  as  those  of iron ,  यूँ  changing the links of  भोजन  to scurvy over time  .
Treatment by fresh food , particularly citrus fruit  ,   थी  periodically implemented  ,  as  it  had been since antiquity .
However until  the  1930s ,  उपचार   थी   असंगत   ,   साथ  many  अप्रभावी  treatments used into  the  20th century .
It was a  स्कॉटिश  surgeon  in  the Royal Navy , James Lind  जो   पहला  proved it could be  treated  with citrus fruit in  प्रयोग  he  वर्णित  in  उसके  1753  किताब   ,   a  Treatise of the Scurvy  ,  though his advice was not  implemented  by  the  Royal  नेवी  for several  दशकों   .
in   infants  ,  स्कर्वी   is  sometimes referred to as Barlow 's disease ,  नामित  after  सर  Thomas Barlow  ,  a British physician who  वर्णित   it   .
However  ,  Barlow 's disease may also refer to mitral valve prolapse  .
Other eponyms for scurvy  शामिल   moeller   's  disease  और  Cheadle 's  बीमारी   .
Scurvy does  नहीं  occur in  सबसे  animals  क्युकी  they can synthesize their own vitamin  c  .
however  ,  इंसानो  and other  उच्चतर  primates ( the  simians  -  बंदरों   और   apes  - and tarsiers ) ,  गिनी  pigs , most or  सब  bats , and some species of  पक्षियों  and fish lack an enzyme (  l-gulonolactone   oxidase  ) necessary for such synthesis  और   जरूर   obtain  vitamin C through their  आहार   .
Vitamin C is  फैली  in  संयंत्र  tissues  ,  with particularly high concentrations occurring  in   citrus  fruits (  संतरे  , lemons , limes  ,   grapefruits   )  , tomatoes , potatoes , cabbages  ,  and  ग्रीन  peppers  .
आयरन   is  a  रासायनिक   तत्व  with the symbol Fe ( from ) and atomic number 26  .
It is a  मेटल  in the  पहला   परिवर्तन   श्रेणी  .
It is the most  आम  element  (  by  द्रव्यमान  )  forming  the  ग्रह  Earth as a  पूरे  ,  forming  much of Earth 's  बाहरी   और  inner core  .
It is the  चौथी  most  आम   तत्व  in the Earth  's   क्रस्ट  .
Iron  's   बहुत   आम  presence in  रॉकी   ग्रह   जैसे   धरती  is due to its  abundant  production as  a   परिणाम  of fusion in high-mass  सितारों   ,  where  the   उत्पादन  of  nickel-56  ( which decays to  the  most common  समस्थानिक   of  iron )  is  the  पिछला  nuclear fusion reaction that is exothermic  .
This causes radioactive nickel  to  become  the   पिछला   तत्व   to   be  produced before collapse  of   a   सुपरनोवा  leads to  the  explosive events that  scatter   इस  precursor radionuclide  of  iron abundantly into space .
Like  अन्य  group 8  तत्व  , iron exists in  a  wide range of oxidation  राज्य  , −2  to  +6 ,  हालांकि  +2 and +3  हैं   the   सबसे   आम   .
Elemental  आयरन  occurs  in  meteoroids  और  other low oxygen environments ,  लकिन  is reactive to  ऑक्सीजन  and water .
भैस  iron surfaces appear lustrous  silvery-gray  , but  oxidize  in normal  एयर  to  दे   hydrated  iron oxides , commonly  ज्ञात  as rust  .
Unlike many other metals which form passivating oxide layers , iron oxides  occupy  more volume than  आयरन  metal , and thus iron oxides flake off  और  expose fresh surfaces for corrosion .
आयरन  metal has been used  चूंकि   प्राचीन  times , though copper alloys ,  जिससे  have  निम्नतर  melting temperatures , were used  पहला  in history  .
pure   आयरन  is  नरम  ( softer  than  aluminium  )  , but is  unobtainable   by   smelting   .
The material is significantly hardened  और  strengthened by impurities from the smelting  प्रक्रम  , such as carbon .
A certain  proportion  of carbon  (  between 0.002  %   और  2.1 % ) produces steel , which may be  up   to  1000 times harder than pure iron .
Crude iron metal is produced in blast furnaces ,  जहाँ  ore  is  reduced by coke to pig iron ,  जिससे  has a  ऊँची  carbon content  .
Further  refinement  with  ऑक्सीजन  reduces  the   कार्बन  content  to   the  correct proportion  to  make steel  .
steels   और  low carbon  आयरन   alloys  with other metals (  मिश्रधातु  steels  )   हैं  by far the most common metals in industrial use , due to  उनके  great range of desirable  गुण  and  the   प्रचुरता  of iron .
Iron  रासायनिक  compounds  ,  which include ferrous  और   ferric  compounds , have  अनेक  uses .
Iron oxide mixed with aluminium powder can be  ignited  to create  a  thermite reaction ,  प्रयुक्त   in   वेल्डिंग  and  सुथरा  ores .
It forms  शब्दकोष  compounds with the  हैलोजन्स   और  the chalcogens  .
Among its organometallic compounds is ferrocene  ,  the first sandwich compound discovered .
आयरन  plays an important  भूमिका  in biology  ,  forming complexes with  आणविक  oxygen in  हीमोग्लोबिन  and myoglobin ;  ये  two compounds are common oxygen transport proteins in  vertebrates   .
Iron is also the metal  प्रयुक्त  at the active site  of  many important  रेडॉक्स  enzymes  dealing  with cellular  श्वसन  and  ऑक्सीकरण   और  reduction in plants  और  animals  .
the  Blue Cross  ब्लू  Shield Association (  bcbsa  ) is a federation  of  38 separate health insurance  संगठन  and  कंपनियाँ  in the United  राज्य   .
Combined  ,  they directly or  indirectly  provide health insurance to over 99 million  अमेरिकी  .
The  इतिहास  of  ब्लू   क्रॉस  dates  वापस  to  1929  , while the history  of  Blue  शील्ड  dates to 1939 .
The Blue Cross Association dates back  to  1960 , while its Blue  शील्ड  counterpart  थी  created in  1948  .
The two organizations  मिलाया  in 1982  ,   forming  the current  संघ   .
A potato chip  (  known as  a  chip  in  American ,  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  ,  नई  Zealand  ,   कनाडाई  , Singaporean , Hong Kong , South African and  jamaican  English  ;   as  a crisp  in   अंग्रेजों  English and Hiberno-English , and as either a  चिप  or wafer in Indian English  )  is  a  thin slice  of   आलू  that is deep fried or baked until  crunchy  .
Potato chips are  commonly   परोसा  as an  क्षुधावर्धक   ,  side dish , or snack .
the   मौलिक  chips are cooked  और  salted ;  अतिरिक्त   किस्में   हैं  manufactured using various flavorings and ingredients including seasonings ,  herbs  , spices  ,   cheeses  ,  और   कृत्रिम   एडिटिव  .
``  crisps  '' ,  however   ,   may  also  refer  to many different types of  savory  snack products sold  in  the United  किंगडम   और  Ireland , some  बना  from potato , but  may  also  be  made  इससे  maize  ,  tapioca or other cereals .
an  example of these kinds  of  savory  स्नैक्स   is   दानव  Munch .
Potato  चिप्स  are a  predominant  part of the snack  खाना  market  in  English-speaking countries and  numerous  other Western  राष्ट्र   .
The global  आलू  chip market generated total revenues of US $  16.4   अरब  in  2005   .
This accounted  लिये  35.5 %  of  the total savory  स्नैक्स  market  in  that year ( US $ 46.1 billion ) .
Henry Clay , Sr.  (  April  12  , 1777 –  जून  29  ,  1852  )  was  a  lawyer , politician  और  skilled  orator  who represented Kentucky  in  both the Senate and in  the  House of Representatives .
He  परोसा  three different terms  as   स्पीकर   of  the United States House of Representatives and was also  सचिव   of  State  इससे  1825  to  1829 .
he  lost  उसके  campaigns for president in 1824 , 1832 and  1844  .
Clay  थी   a  dominant figure  in  both the First and Second Party systems .
As a leading war  हॉक  in 1812 , he favored war with Britain  और  played a significant role  in  leading  the  nation to war in the War of 1812 .
In 1824  he   भागा  for president and lost , but threw  उसके  electoral votes to John Quincy  एडम्स  ,  जो   बना  him secretary  of   राज्य  as the  jacksonians  denounced what  वे  considered a `` corrupt bargain . ''
He ran and lost  again  in 1832 and 1844 as  the  candidate of the Whig Party , which  he  founded and usually  वर्चस्व   .
Clay was  the  foremost  proponent  of  the  American System , fighting  लिये  an  बढ़ाएँ  in tariffs  to   फोस्टर   उद्योग  in the United States , the use of federal  funding   to  build and maintain infrastructure , and a strong national bank .
He opposed the  annexation   of  Texas ,  fearing  it would  इंजेक्ट  the slavery  समस्या   into   राजनीती   .
मिट्टी  also opposed the Mexican-American  युद्ध  and  the   ``  Manifest Destiny `` policy of  डेमोक्रेट  ,  जिससे   लागत  him  मत  in the close 1844 election .
Dubbed the  ``  Great Pacificator , ''  मिट्टी   brokered  important  compromises   दौरान   the   nullification   संकट  and  on  the slavery issue .
as  part of  the   ``  Great Triumvirate `` or `` Immortal  तिकड़ी   ,  '' along with  उसके  colleagues Daniel Webster  और  John C. Calhoun , he  थी  instrumental in  formulating  the Missouri Compromise of 1820 and  the  Compromise  of  1850 .
He  थी  viewed  as  the primary representative of Western interests  in  this group  ,  and was  दिए   the  names  ``   हेनरी  of  the  West  ''   और  `` The  पश्चिमी  Star  .   ''
a  plantation owner  ,  Clay held slaves during his lifetime but  freed  them  in   उसके  Will .
अब्राहम  Lincoln , the  whig  leader in Illinois  ,   थी  a great admirer of Clay , saying he was  ``   my  ideal  of  a great  man   .   ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly supported Clay 's economic programs .
In  1957  ,  a  Senate Committee selected Clay  as   एक  of  the   पाँच  greatest U.S .  सीनेटरों  , along with Daniel Webster , John  C.  Calhoun ,  रॉबर्ट  La Follette , and  रॉबर्ट  Taft .
bj  's Wholesale  क्लबों  , Inc. ,  commonly   referred  to simply as BJ 's ,  is  a membership-only warehouse club  कड़ी   ऑपरेटिंग   on   the   संयुक्त  States  ईस्ट  Coast , as well  as  in the state of Ohio .
The company is ranked #  232   on  Fortune magazine 's  2010   लिस्टिंग  of America 's  500  largest  पब्लिक   corporations  .
The Wizard of Oz , known during his reign  as  The Great and Powerful Oz , is the epithet of Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkel Emmannuel  ambroise  Diggs , a  fictional   अक्षर  in  the  Land  of   oz  , created by American  लेखक  L.  फ़्रैंक  Baum  .
The character was further popularized by the classic  1939  movie , wherein  उसके  full  नाम   is  not mentioned  .
kristinia  Jamie  debarge  (  ;  born March  8  ,  1990  ) is  an  American singer  ,  songwriter , dancer and actress  .
She  पहला  appeared on  नेशनल   टेलीविज़न   in  2003  as   a  contestant on the American Idol spin-off , American  juniors  .
In  2009  , DeBarge  हस्ताक्षरित  a contract with  the  Island Records department  sodapop   ,   releasing  her debut album Exposed in  जुलाई  of the same  साल  .
The  पहला  single , `` Goodbye ``  ,  reached the top 20 in the  us   और  Canada  .
The lead  सिंगल   (  `` Cry  भेड़िया  '' ) from her untitled  sophomore  album was released on  सितंबर   27   ,   2012  .
the  Hawaii Warriors football  टोली  represents the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Hawaiʻi  at  Mānoa  in  NCAA Division I FBS college football .
The team  is  coached by Norm  चाउ  .
It was part of the Western Athletic Conference until July 2012 , when  the  team joined  the  Mountain West Conference  .
The  हवाई  Warriors were the third non-AQ team to play  in  a  bcs  bowl game ; losing to Georgia 41–10 in  the  Sugar Bowl on  जनवरी   1   ,  2008 in  नई  Orleans , Louisiana .
Marvin  gaye  (  अप्रैल   2  , 1939April  1  , 1984 )  ,  born  मारविन  Pentz Gay , Jr. , was  an   अमरीकी  singer-songwriter and musician  .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the  1960s   साथ  a string of hits including `` How Sweet It  is  (  to   be  Loved By  तुम   )   ``   और  `` I Heard It  through  the Grapevine  ``   और   duet  recordings  साथ  Mary Wells and  tammi  Terrell  ,   बाद  earning  the   शीर्षक  ``  प्रिंस   of   motown  '' and `` Prince of Soul ''  .
During  the  1970s  ,  Gaye  अंकित   the  concept albums What 's Going On and Let 's Get It On and  became  among the first artists in  motown  to break away from the reins of its production  कम्पनी  .
gaye   's  later recordings influenced several  r  & B  subgenres  such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
Following a period  in   यूरोपीय  under a tax  निर्वासन   in   the  early 1980s , Gaye released  the  1982 Grammy  award-winning  hit `` Sexual Healing  ``  and  the  Midnight Love album .
Since his death  in  1984 , Gaye has been posthumously  सम्मानित  by  अनेक  institutions  ,  including the Grammy Lifetime  उपलब्धि  Award  और  the  चट्टान  and Roll  हॉल  of Fame .
Location  of  Chernobyl  नाभिकीय  power plant
the   abandoned  city of Pripyat with Chernobyl plant in  the  distance
abandoned  housing  ब्लॉक  in Pripyat
the   chernobyl  disaster (  ,  Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl  प्रलय   )  was  a   अनर्थकारी  nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the  chernobyl  Nuclear Power Plant  in  Ukraine ( then  officially  the Ukrainian SSR ) , which was  अंतर्गत   the  direct jurisdiction of  the  central  अधिकारियों  of the Soviet Union .
an  explosion and fire  released  large quantities of radioactive particles into the  माहौल  ,  जिससे  spread over  much   of   the  western USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the  worst   नाभिकीय   शक्ति   संयंत्र  accident  in  history  ,  and is  एक  of only two classified as  a  level  7  event on the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Nuclear  इवेंट  Scale ( the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ) .
The battle to  contain  the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over 500,000 workers and cost an  अनुमानित  18 billion rubles .
the  official Soviet  casualty  count of 31 deaths  रै   महरूम   विवादित   ,  and long-term  प्रभाव  such as cancers and  deformities  are still being accounted for  .
Mrs.  क्लॉस  says goodbye to her husband as  he   सेट   बंद  on his  यात्रा  in this 1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus  is  the wife of Santa  क्लॉस  , the Christmas gift-bringer  in  North American and European Christmas  परंपरा  .
She is known  लिये  making  कुकीज़  with  the  elves and  तैयारी   खिलौने   साथ  her husband Santa Claus .
उसके  first name  is  a mystery , though she has been referred to  as  Mary  ,  Jessica ,  layla  , Annette  ,   हीदी   ,  or Martha .
HijackThis ( also HiJackThis or HJT ) is  an  open  सोर्स   enumerating   औजार  for Microsoft Windows  originally  created  by  Merijn Bellekom , and later  बेची   to  Trend Micro .
The program is notable for targeting browser-hijacking methods  ,  rather  than   relying   on  a database of  ज्ञात   स्पाइवेयर  .
It scans  a  user 's computer  जल्दी  , and displays  ब्राउजर  hijacking  स्थितियाँ  , showing what entries are there .
HijackThis is used primarily for diagnosis of  ब्राउजर   hijacking  ,  as   uninformed   उपयोग   of   इसके   हटाना   सुविधाएं  can cause significant  तन्त्र  damage to a  कंप्यूटर  .
hijackthis   करता  not  हटाएँ  or detect spyware ;  it  lists most common locations  जहाँ  browser hijacking activity can occur  .
Browser hijacking can cause malware to be installed on a computer  .
On February 16 ,  2012   ,  Trend Micro  released   the  HijackThis source code  as  open  सोर्स  and it  is   अभी  available on the SourceForge site  .
Saddle  क्रीक   रिकॉर्ड   is  an American  रिकार्ड   लेबल   आधारित  in  ओमाहा   ,  Nebraska .
Started  as  a college class  प्रोजेक्ट   on   उद्यमिता  , the label was founded by Mike  mogis  and Justin  oberst   in   1993   (  as Lumberjack Records  )  .
mogis  soon  turned  over  उसके   भूमिका  in the  कम्पनी  to Robb Nansel  .
The label  is  named after Saddle Creek Road ,  a  street that cuts through the east  पक्ष   of  midtown Omaha , and the beginnings of a scene  जिनकी  members  शामिल  Conor Oberst (  तब  a  सोलो  artist , currently of  उज्जवल   आँखें  ,  conor  Oberst and the Mystic Valley Band , Desaparecidos  और  Monsters  of  Folk  )   ,   टिम  Kasher ( then of Slowdown Virginia ,  फिलहाल   of   कर्सिव  and The Good Life ) , and others .
Collectively , they were known  unofficially   as  the `` Creekers ''  .
काठी  Creek first appeared in print on  a   दिखाएँ   flyer  , offering to `` Spend  an   संध्या  with Saddle  क्रीक  '' (  बाद  to be the title of the  लेबल   's  DVD . )
काठी   क्रीक   became  an incorporated entity as  a   परिणाम  of a  क्लास  project on entrepreneurship .
वितरण  is handled by the Alternative Distribution Alliance  ,  which is  अंतर्गत   the  Warner Music Group  छतरियाँ   .
Saddle Creek Records continues to be the flagship label of  a  style of  म्यूज़िक   पुकारा  `` The Omaha Sound `` , characterized  by  a slight country twang .
This is increasingly inaccurate , though  ,   साथ   the  rise of more  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  sounds  ऐसे  as those favored by The Faint and Broken  spindles  .
the  eclectic sounds of  काठी   क्रीक  's  disparate  member bands is somewhat explained  by  their history  ;  a  क्रमांक  of the  असली  members of  the  label attended grade school together .
a  ``  सिस्टर  label  ''  ,  of   sorts   ,   to  Saddle  क्रीक   is  Team Love  ,  started  by  Conor  oberst   in   2004  .
the  label opened arms  to  their first bands not  आधारित   in   ओमाहा  in  2001   साथ  releases by  अभी  It 's Overhead and Sorry About  ड्रेसडेन  .
अन्य  non-Nebraskan  कलाकारों  followed ,  सहित   लॉस   एंजिल्स  's  rilo  Kiley , Eric Bachmann ( formerly  नेता  of Archers of Loaf  और  Crooked Fingers from North  कैरोलिना  ) , Georgie James ( Washington D.C.  )  , Two Gallants  (  San Francisco )  ,   और  most  recently  Tokyo Police  क्लबों  (  टोरंटो   )   .
In 2005 , Spend an Evening with Saddle Creek ,  a   वृत्तचित्र  detailing the first ten  सालो  of the  रिकार्ड  label  's  history , was released  .
The  dvd   सुविधाएँ   extensive  interviews with  the  Saddle  क्रीक  bands ,  archival  footage , and rare live performances  .
on  June  8   ,   2007  , the  लेबल   खोली  their  अपना  music  स्थान   नामित   slowdown   (  after the  समूह  Slowdown  वर्जिनिया   )  , located in downtown Omaha , Nebraska .
The following is a list of episodes  लिये  the television  दिखाएँ  Full  हाउस   .
In  कुल   ,  there were  192  episodes  फिल्माया  for  the  show  over   the  course of its eight seasons , from 1987 to 1995  .
Full House is a situation comedy  जिससे  chronicles a  विधवा   पिता  's struggles  of  raising  उसके  three young  बेटियां  and the  जीवनदान  that  वे   have  touched .
The patriarch of the  परिवार  , Danny  (  Bob Saget  )   ,  invites  उसके  brother-in-law  जेसी   (  John  stamos  ) and his  बेहतरीन  friend Joey  (   डेव  Coulier ) , to help raise his  children  ( Candace Cameron  ,  Jodie Sweetin , and  मरियम  Kate/Ashley Olsen ) ,  बाद  his  बीवी  was killed  दौरान  an automobile  दुर्घटना  involving a drunk driver .
After episodes 88 and  89  , Jesse  marries  Becky ( Lori Loughlin ) ,  और  they move into the  अटारी  .
Then , after episodes 104 and 105  ,   बेकी  and  जेसी  have twin boys  नामित  Nicky and Alex  (   डेनियल   और   केविन  Renteria/Blake and Dylan  tuomy-wilhoit  )  .
The series ends with  एपीसोड  192 ,  ``  Michelle Rides Again  भाग  2  ''  , when Michelle loses  उसके  memory and  the   परिवार  tries to restore it .
Notice of  स्टैम्प   अधिनियम  of 1765 in  समाचारपत्र
American newspapers reacted  to  the Stamp  अधिनियम  with anger  और  predictions of the demise of  पत्रकारिता  .
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties  in   अमरीकी  Colonies Act  1765   ;  5 George III , c. 12  )   imposed   a   सीधा  tax by the British  पार्लियामेंट   specifically  on the  colonies   of  British America ,  और  it required that many printed  सामग्री  in  the  colonies  be   उत्पादित   on  stamped paper produced in  लंदन  , carrying an  embossed  revenue  स्टैम्प  .
These printed materials were  विधिक  documents  ,   मैगज़ीन   ,  newspapers and many other  प्रकार   of   पेपर   प्रयुक्त  throughout the colonies .
जैसे  previous taxes  ,   the  stamp  कर  had to be paid in  मान्य   अंग्रेजों   करेंसी   ,   नहीं  in colonial  पेपर  money .
the  purpose of  the  tax was to  सहायता   अदा  for  सैनिकों   stationed  in  उत्तर   अमेरिका  after  the  British victory in the Seven  सालो  ' War .
the  British government  लगा  that  the  colonies were the primary  beneficiaries   of   इस  military presence  ,   और   चाहिए   अदा   at  least a  portion  of the  व्यय  .
The Stamp Act  मिले  great resistance in the  colonies  .
the  colonies  भेजा  no  प्रतिनिधि  to Parliament  ,  and therefore had  no  influence over what  कर  were raised , how they  यहूद   levied  ,  or  how  वे   होता  be spent .
Many colonists considered it a  उल्लंघन  of their  अधिकारों   as  Englishmen to  be  taxed without their  सहमति   —consent   कि  only the colonial legislatures  could  grant .
Colonial assemblies sent petitions  और   विरोध   .
The Stamp  अधिनियम  Congress held in New  यॉर्क   नगर  , reflecting the first significant joint  औपनिवेशिक   जवाब  to  कोई  British measure  ,  also  petitioned   पार्लियामेंट   और  the  किंग  .
Local protest groups , led by colonial merchants and landowners , established  कनेक्शन्स  through  पत्राचार  that created  a   ढीला  coalition  कि   विस्तारित  from  नई  England  to   जॉर्जिया  .
Protests  और  demonstrations initiated  by  the  बेटे  of Liberty  प्रायः  turned violent  और  destructive as  the   masses  became  शामिल  .
Very soon all stamp tax  वितरकों  were intimidated  into  resigning their  आयोग  , and  the  tax was never  effectively  collected .
Opposition  to  the Stamp  अधिनियम  was not limited to  the  colonies .
British merchants and manufacturers , whose exports to the colonies were threatened by colonial  आर्थिक   समस्याएं  exacerbated by the tax ,  भी  pressured  पार्लियामेंट  .
The Act  थी   repealed  on  कूच  18 , 1766 as a matter of  expedience   ,  but Parliament affirmed  इसके  power  to   legislate  for the  colonies  “in all cases whatsoever”  by  also passing the Declaratory Act  .
There followed  a  series of  नई  taxes and  regulations  , likewise  opposed  by the colonists  .
the  episode played a major role  in  defining the  grievances  and enabling the organized colonial resistance that led  to  the American  क्रान्ति  in 1775 .
PT-105  underway   .
pt  boats were a variety of torpedo-armed fast attack craft used  by   the  United States  नेवी   in  World War  ii  to  आक्रमण   larger   सतह  ships .
``  pt  '' is the US hull  वर्गीकरण  symbol for  ``  Patrol  torpedo   ''  .
The PT boat squadrons were nicknamed ``  the  mosquito fleet ''  .
The Japanese  पुकारा   उन्हें  ``  शैतान   नौकाएँ  '' .
The original pre– World War I torpedo  नौकाएँ  were designed with `` displacement '' hulls .
They  विस्थापित  up to  300   टन  and  the  top  गति  was  .
the   pt  boats used  in  World War II were built  using  the  planing   -type  hull form developed for racing boats  .
वे  were much smaller (  30–75   टन  ) and  तेज़   (  35–40  knots  ) .
दोनो  types were designed  to  strike at larger warships with torpedoes  ,   using   अपेक्षाकृत  high speed to  मिलेंगी  close , and  छोटी  size  to  avoid  होने   spotted  and hit by gunfire .
They were  much   कम  expensive than  विशाल   warships  .
PT boats  यहूद  much faster ,  छोटी   ,   और  cheaper than  conventional  ( displacement  हल  ) vessels .
During World War  ii   ,  American PT boats engaged  दुश्मन  destroyers  और  numerous  अन्य  surface craft , ranging from small boats to large supply ships .
PT  नौकाएँ  also  संचालित  as gunboats  विरूद्ध  enemy  छोटी   शिल्प  , such as armored  barges   प्रयुक्त  by  the  Japanese forces for inter-island  हस्तांतरण   .
Good Friday is  a  religious holiday  observed  primarily by Christians commemorating  the  crucifixion  of  Jesus  मसीह  and his  मौत  at  कलवारी  .
The holiday is observed  दौरान  Holy Week as part of  the  Paschal Triduum on  the  Friday preceding Easter  संडे  , and  may  coincide with the Jewish observance of Passover .
It is  भी   ज्ञात   as  Holy Friday  ,  Great Friday ,  ब्लैक  Friday  ,  or Easter Friday , though the  latter  properly refers to the  शुक्रवार   in  Easter week .
आधारित   on  the details  of  the Canonical gospels , the  crucifixion  of Jesus  थी   सबसे   संभावित  to  have  been on a  शुक्रवार   (  the  दिन   पहले  the  sabbath  )  (  )  .
The  अनुमानित  year of  the  Crucifixion is AD 33  ,  by two different  समूह  , and originally as  ad  34 by Isaac  न्यूटन   via  the differences  between  the  biblical  and  जूलियन  calendars and the crescent  of  the moon  .
A third method , using  a  completely  अलग  astronomical approach based on a  चंद्र   crucifixion  darkness and eclipse model  (   सतत  with Apostle Peter  's  reference to a `` moon  of  blood '' in Acts 2:20 ) , points to  शुक्रवार  ,  3  April AD  33  .
The  ग्रेट  Basin  is  the largest  क्षेत्रफल  of  endorheic  watersheds in  उत्तर  America .
It is noted for  दोनो   इसके  arid conditions  और  its Basin and range  स्थलाकृति   कि  varies from the  उत्तर  American  कम   पाइंट  at  badwater  Basin to the highest point  of   the  contiguous United States , less than away at the  समिट  of  माउंट  Whitney .
the   प्रदेश  spans several  physiographic  divisions ,  biomes  / ecoregions , and deserts .
रास्टर  may refer  to:
Raster graphics  ,  graphical techniques  using  arrays of  पिक्सेल  values
Raster graphics editor , a  कंप्यूटर  program
रास्टर  scan  ,  the pattern of image  readout   ,  transmission , storage ,  और   पुनर्निर्माण   in  television and  कंप्यूटर  images
rasterisation   ,  or rasterization , conversion  of  a  वेक्टर  image to a raster image
रास्टर  image  प्रोसेसर   ,  or  rip  , a component of a printing  प्रणाली  that performs rasterisation
Raster interrupt , a computer interrupt  सिग्नल
रास्टर  to vector , an image conversion process
Raster bar , an effect used in computer  demos
Raster-Noton  ,  a record label
Rastrum , a  यंत्र  used in  मध्यकालीन  music manuscripts  to  draw staff  लाइनों
Raster Document Object  ,  a  संचिका   स्वरूप
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a  legendary  Geatish hero  और  later turned  किंग  in the  एपिक  poem named  बाद  him , one of the oldest surviving pieces  of   साहित्य   in  the English language .
the  attack on  पर्ल  Harbor ( called  हवाई  Operation  or  Operation  ai  by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation  z  in  नियोजन  ) and the  बैटल   of   पर्ल  Harbor  )   थी  a  आश्चर्य   सैन्य  strike conducted  by  the Imperial  जापानी   नेवी   विरूद्ध  the United  राज्य   नवल   आधार  at  पर्ल  Harbor , Hawaii , on  the   morning  of December 7  ,  1941  (   दिसम्बर  8 in Japan  )  .
इससे  the standpoint of  the  defenders  ,  the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m.  हवाई  Time .
The  आक्रमण  was intended as  a  preventive action in order to  रखना  the U.S. Pacific  बेड़े  from  दखल  with  सैन्य  actions the Empire of  जापानी  was planning  in  Southeast  एशिया  against  विदेशी  territories of  the   संयुक्त  Kingdom , the  नीदरलैंड्स  , and the United  राज्य  .
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters , bombers  और  torpedo planes in two waves  ,  launched  इससे  six aircraft carriers .
All eight U.S. Navy  battleships  were  क्षतिग्रस्त  , with four  होने  sunk .
Two of  ये  were later raised , and  साथ   the  remaining  चार   repaired  ,  छह  battleships  लौटे   to   सेवा   बाद   in   the  war .
The  जापानी  also sank or  क्षतिग्रस्त  three cruisers , three  destroyers  , an anti-aircraft training ship , and one minelayer .
188  U.S. aircraft were destroyed ; 2,402 Americans were killed and  1,282   wounded  .
महत्वपूर्ण  base installations  ऐसे   as   the  power station , shipyard , maintenance , and fuel and torpedo storage facilities  ,  as  खूब  as the submarine  पियर  and headquarters  भवन  ( also home of the intelligence  खण्ड  )  यहूद  not attacked .
Japanese losses  यहूद  light : 29  वायुयान  and  पाँच  midget submarines  खोया  ,  और  65 servicemen killed  or  wounded .
One Japanese sailor was captured  .
The attack came as a profound  शॉक  to  the   अमरीकी  people and led directly to  the  American entry into World War II  in   दोनो   the  Pacific and  यूरोपीय  theaters .
The following day  (  December  8   )   ,  the United States declared war on Japan .
Domestic  support  for  non-interventionism  , which had  महरूम   दमदार  ,  disappeared   .
clandestine   support  of Britain  (   लिये  example  the  Neutrality  पैट्रोल  ) was replaced by active alliance .
Subsequent operations by the  u.S.   prompted  Germany  और  Italy to  घोषित  war on  the   u.S.  on December 11 , which was reciprocated  by  the  u.S.  the same day .
There were numerous historical precedents  लिये  unannounced military  कार्रवाई  by Japan .
However , the  कमी  of any formal warning , particularly while negotiations  यहूद  still  जाहिर  ongoing , led  अध्यक्ष   फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt to  proclaim   दिसम्बर  7 , 1941 ,  ``   a  date which  होगा   सजीव   in   infamy   ``  .
U.S. Route 85 ( US 85  )   is   a  north–south United States highway that runs for  in  the Mountain -  उत्तरी   मैदान   राज्य  of the United States .
The  दक्षिणी  terminus  of  the route  is   at  the  संयुक्त  States-Mexico border in El  पासो  , Texas , connecting  साथ   मैक्सिकन  Federal Highway 45 .
the  northern terminus is at the  संयुक्त   states-canada  border  in   fortuna   ,  North Dakota , where  the  route  continues  north  as  Saskatchewan Highway 35 .
In  दोनो  the United States and Saskatchewan  ,  Canada the route is  ज्ञात  as the CanAm  राजमार्ग  .
Sections of US 85 are considered  भाग  of the Theodore  रूज़वेल्ट   एक्सप्रेसवे  .
the  United States presidential  चुनाव  of 1968  थी  the  46th  quadrennial presidential  चुनाव   ,  held on Tuesday  ,   नवम्बर  5  ,  1968 .
The Republican  nominee   ,  former  vice-president  Richard  निक्सन  , won the  चुनाव   over  the Democratic nominee , incumbent Vice-President  ह्यूबर्ट  Humphrey .
Nixon  भागा  on a  अभियान  that promised  to   restore   विधि   और   अनुक्रम  to the nation 's cities ,  फटा  by riots and  अपराधों  .
Analysts have argued the election  of  1968 is  a  realigning election  as  it permanently disrupted the  नई  Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for  36  years .
coming   चार  years after Democrat  lyndon  B. Johnson won  in   a  historic  भूस्खलन  , the election saw the incumbent president forced out  of   the  race and  a  Republican elected for the first time  in  twelve years .
It was a  विदारक  national experience  ,  conducted  दौरान  a  साल   of  violence that included  the  assassination of civil  अधिकारों   नेता  Martin Luther  किंग   ,  Jr. , and subsequent race riots across the  स्वदेश  , the  assasination   of   लोकतांत्रिक  presidential candidate  रॉबर्ट   F.  Kennedy  ,  widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university  campuses   ,  and violent  confrontations  between police and anti-war  प्रदर्शनकारियों  at the  1968   लोकतांत्रिक   नेशनल   सम्मेलन  as  the  Democratic party split again and again .
The election  प्रदर्शित  the strongest third party effort since 1912  by  former Alabama Governor George Wallace , a Democrat .
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal  हस्तक्षेप   in  the  दक्षिण  to end school segregation , he carried the Deep  दक्षिण  and ran well in  जातीय   औद्योगिक  districts  in  the North .
This was the last election in which  नई  York had the  सबसे  votes  in  the electoral college  (   43   मत  ) .
After the 1970 census , California gained the  सबसे  electoral votes  और  has  remained  the most populous  राज्य   चूंकि  then .
This is the latest  चुनाव   जहाँ   a  presidential ticket  जीती  without carrying the  वाइस   अध्यक्षीय  candidate 's home state .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System  मॉनिटर  application included  साथ  the  microsoft   खिड़कियाँ  NT family  of  operating systems  कि   provides  limited information about computer performance and running  अनुप्रयोग  , processes and CPU usage , commit  चार्ज  and memory  सूचना   ,  network  कार्यकलाप  and  आंकडे  , logged-in users , and system services  (  and as often is  the  case with software tools provided by Microsoft for  खिड़कियाँ   ,  3rd party software  is  available which fills  the  requirements  अधिक  thoroughly  ,  e.g ,  ``  Process Explorer  ''  , ``  विस्तारित  Task  मैनेजर  '' , ``  anvir  Task Manager  ''   ,   ``  Process  हैकर  '' , and `` System Explorer '' ) .
the  Task Manager  can  also be used to set process priorities  ,  processor affinity , forcibly terminate processes  ,  and shut down ,  restart  ,  hibernate  or log off  इससे  Windows .
Windows  कार्य  Manager  थी  introduced with Windows NT  4.0   .
Previous versions of Windows NT included the Task  सूची  application  ,   जिससे   था  far fewer features .
The  कार्य   सूची  was  सक्षम   of  listing  फिलहाल  running processes and killing them  ,  or creating a  नई   प्रक्रम  .
In  खिड़कियाँ  XP only , a Shutdown menu  is  also present that allows access to Standby , Hibernate ,  फेरे   बंद   ,  Restart , Log Off and Switch User .
Earlier versions  of  Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ  ( Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ  3.x , Windows 95 , Windows 98 )  था  a  कार्यक्रम   ज्ञात  as tasks to  प्रदर्शक   the   कार्यक्रम  currently  कार्यशील   .
This file  थी   चलाया   by  running the  taskman.exe   संचिका  from the C :  \खिड़कीs   निर्देशिका  .
Kanji ( ; ) are the  अपनाया   logographic  Chinese characters  (  hanzi ) that are used  in   the  modern Japanese writing system along with hiragana  (  ひらがな , ) , katakana ( カタカナ  ,   )  , Hindu-Arabic numerals , and  the  occasional use of the Latin  वर्णमाला  .
the   जापानी  term kanji ( )  लिये   the  Chinese  वर्ण  literally means ``  हान  characters '' and is written using the  वही   वर्ण  as  the  Chinese  hanzi  ( ) .
John R Williams  (  May 4  ,  1782 – October  20  , 1854 ) was an American soldier , merchant , and politician who  is  most well known for  सेवारत   as  the first mayor of Detroit , Michigan .
In  कुल  , he  परोसा  as Detroit  's   महापौर   लिये  five  अन्य  terms .
he  also  थी   a   ब्रिगेडियर   सामान्य   in  the  संयुक्त  States Army during the  ब्लैक  Hawk War  .
A  सरल   शुष्क  magnetic  पोर्टेबल  compass  .
A smartphone that can be used as  a   कम्पास  because of the  magnetometer   अंदर  .
an  iPhone that can be used as  a  geological compass because of the  3-axis   teslameter  and  3-axis   accelerometer   अंदर  it
A  सैन्य   कम्पास  that  थी  used during World War I  .
a  compass  is  a navigational  यंत्र  that shows  दिशानिर्देश   in  a  फ़्रेम  of reference that is stationary  सापेक्ष  to the  सतह  of the earth  .
the  frame  of  reference  defines  the  चार  cardinal directions ( or points ) –  उत्तर  , south , east , and west .
इंटरमीडिएट  directions are also defined .
Usually ,  a  diagram called a  कम्पास   रोज़  , which  shows   the  directions (  साथ   उनके  names usually  abbreviated  to initials ) , is marked  on  the compass  .
When the compass is in  उपयोग  , the  रोज़   is  aligned with the real directions  in  the frame  of  reference  ,  so , for example , the `` N '' mark on the rose  वाकई  points  to  the north .
Frequently , in  जोड  to  the  rose or sometimes instead of it , angle  markings   in   डिग्री  are shown on the compass .
उत्तर  corresponds to zero degrees ,  और   the  angles increase clockwise , so  ईस्ट  is  90  degrees ,  दक्षिण  is 180 ,  और  west  is  270  .
ये  numbers allow the compass  to  show azimuths or bearings , which are commonly stated  in   इस  notation .
The magnetic compass was first invented  as   a  device for divination as early as the Chinese  हान  Dynasty  (  Since  परिचय  206 BC ) .
the  compass was used in Song Dynasty  चीन  by  the  military  लिये  navigational  orienteering  by  1040-1044  ,  और   थी  used  लिये  maritime navigation by 1111 to 1117 .
The  उपयोग   of  a compass is recorded in Western  यूरोपीय  between 1187 and 1202 ,  और  in  फारस  in 1232  .
The dry compass  थी  invented in Europe  around  1300 .
इस  was  supplanted  in the  जल्दी  20th century by the liquid-filled magnetic  कम्पास   .
The Inca Empire  or   inka  Empire  (  Quechua : Tawantinsuyu )  थी   the  largest  साम्राज्य   in   pre-columbian   अमेरिका   .
the  administrative , political and military center  of  the  साम्राज्य  was located in Cusco  in   modern-day  Peru .
The Inca  सभ्यता   arose   इससे   the  highlands  of  Peru sometime in the early 13th century .
इससे  1438 to 1533 , the Incas used a variety of methods  ,  from  conquest  to peaceful  सम्मिलन  , to  चरितार्थ  a large portion  of  western South America  ,  centered on the  andean   पहाड़   सीमाएँ  ,  सहित   ,  besides  पेरू  , large parts of modern Ecuador ,  पश्चिमी  and south central Bolivia ,  उत्तरपश्चिम  Argentina  ,   उत्तर  and  सेंट्रल   चिली  , and  दक्षिणी   कोलंबिया  into a state  comparable  to the historical empires  of   यूरेशिया  .
The official  भाषा  of the empire was Quechua , although hundreds of  लोकल   भाषाएं  and dialects of  quechua   यहूद  spoken .
The  इन्का  referred to their empire as Tawantinsuyu which can be translated as The Four Regions  or  The  चार   संयुक्त   प्रांतों  .
वहीँ   यहूद  many local forms of worship , most  of  them  concerning  local sacred  ``   huacas  `` , but the  इन्का  leadership encouraged  the   इबादत  of Inti —the sun god—and imposed its  प्रभुता   ऊपर   अन्य  cults such as that of Pachamama .
The Incas considered  उनके   किंग  , the Sapa  इन्का  , to be the  ``   चाइल्ड   of   the  sun . ''
The kidneys  हैं  organs that  serve  several essential regulatory roles in  सबसे  animals  ,   सहित  vertebrates and  कुछ  invertebrates .
वे  are essential in the urinary system and  भी  serve homeostatic functions such as  the  regulation of electrolytes ,  मेंटेनेंस  of acid–base balance ,  और   विनियमन   of  blood pressure (  via   maintaining  salt and water balance ) .
They  serve  the body as  a  natural  फिल्टर  of the blood , and remove wastes  जिससे   हैं  diverted to the urinary bladder .
In  producing   मूत्र   ,  the kidneys excrete  wastes  such  as  urea and ammonium ,  और  they are also responsible  लिये  the  reabsorption  of water ,  ग्लूकोज  , and  अमीनो   acids  .
the   गुर्दे   भी   उपज  hormones including  calcitriol  , erythropoietin , and the enzyme renin .
Located  at   the  rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneum  ,  the kidneys receive blood  इससे  the paired renal  धमनियों  ,  और   नाली   into   the   युग्म  renal  रगों   .
Each kidney excretes  मूत्र  into a  ureter  , itself a paired structure that  empties   into  the urinary bladder .
Renal physiology is  the  study of kidney function , while nephrology  is  the  चिकित्सा  specialty concerned  साथ  kidney diseases .
Diseases  of   the  kidney are diverse , but individuals with kidney  बीमारी  frequently  प्रदर्शक  characteristic clinical  सुविधाएँ  .
Common clinical  शर्तें  involving  the  kidney  शामिल   the  nephritic and nephrotic  syndromes  ,  renal   cysts  , acute kidney injury , chronic  गुर्दा  disease ,  urinary  tract infection , nephrolithiasis , and urinary  ट्रैक्ट  obstruction .
Various  cancers  of  the  kidney  मौजूद  ; the most common adult renal cancer is renal  कोशिका  carcinoma  .
Cancers  ,  cysts  ,  and some other renal conditions can  be  managed with removal of the  गुर्दा  , or nephrectomy .
जब  renal  फलन   ,   measured   by  glomerular filtration rate  ,  is  persistently  poor  ,   डायलिसिस   और  kidney  प्रत्यारोपण  may be treatment options .
हालांकि   वे  are not  severely  harmful , kidney stones  can  be painful and a nuisance .
The removal  of  kidney  पत्थरों   involves  ultrasound treatment to  ब्रेक   up  the stones  into   छोटी  pieces ,  जिससे  are then  passed  through the  urinary  tract .
One  आम  symptom  of  kidney stones is a  शार्प  pain in the medial/lateral segments  of   the  lower  वापस  .
lockton  Companies  inc.  is the world 's  largest   privately  held insurance  brokerage  firm  ,  providing  बीमे   ,  risk  प्रबन्धन  and  कर्मचारी   लाभ  solutions  .
in  addition  to  its Kansas  नगर  ,  मिसौरी   मुख्यालय   ,   lockton  operates 60  स्थितियाँ   in  17 countries .
lockton  is currently home to more than 4,450 Associates worldwide .
The company was  संस्थापित  by Jack Lockton  in  1966  और   रै  since become the world’s 9th largest insurance brokerage firm .
lockton   serves  a  चौड़ी  array of industries with services that include risk  प्रबन्धन   ,  casualty  ,  surety , professional indemnity and  अधिक   .
For  46  years ,  lockton  posted extraordinary organic  विकास  ,  साथ   वैश्विक  revenues reaching $ 915 million in fiscal  2012   .
Lockton  लाभ  Group  :  Lockton’s Employee Benefit’s  टोली   works   closely  with insurance  वाहक  and administrators to create comprehensive and integrated benefits strategies for  क्लाइंट  .
The Lockton  लाभ  Group  provides  services  सहित   अनुपालन  ,  कार्यपालिका   लाभ  ,  स्वास्थ्य  and  welfare   ,  health  रिस्क  solutions ,  रिटायरमेंट  and  अधिक   .
Lockton Affinity : Lockton Affinity  ,  an  संबद्ध   of   lockton   कंपनियाँ   ,  meets the insurance  needs   of  affinity groups , franchises , professional organizations  ,  and associations of all  आकार  .
Lockton  अपनापन  offers  a  variety  of  insurance  उत्पाद  options  और  programs .
उत्पाद  include :  सामान्य  Liability , Professional Liability ,  प्रॉपर्टी   ,  Workers  मुआवजे  ,  निर्देशकों  & Officers  देयता  , Commercial Auto , Specialty Coverage , Excess , Health Plans and  अधिक  .
Lockton International : Lockton  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   operates  offices  in  the UK  और   आयरलैंड   ,  as well as offices throughout  एशिया  and Latin  अमेरिका  .
In Europe ,  lockton   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   is  a partner  in  EOS  risq   ,  Europe’s leading  बीमे  broking and risk management consultancy .
EOS  risq  is  an  equity-based  यूरोपीय  partnership of major independent insurance  brokers   साथ  over 3,500 employees based in more than 30  देशों   in  Europe .
lockton   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   provides  specialized  समाधान   लिये  personal lines  ,  SME’s and  प्रमुख   multi-national  clients .
श्वेत  chocolate is  a  chocolate  डेरिवेटिव   .
It  commonly  consists  of  cocoa  मक्खन   ,  sugar , milk solids  और  salt ,  और  is characterized by a pale yellow  or   आइवरी   रूप   .
The melting point  of  cocoa butter  ,  its primary cocoa  सेम   घटक   ,  is high enough to keep white chocolate solid at room  तापमान  .
Donald Leon `` Don '' Blankenship (  born  March 14 , 1950  )  was Chairman and CEO of Massey Energy  co.   ,  the sixth largest coal company  (  by 2008 production ) in the United  राज्य  .
he   परोसा   in  those  भूमिकाएँ  from November 30 ,  2000  , until December  31  ,  2010   .
Blankenship is an  क्रियाशील  financial backer of the Republican  पार्टी   और   भागीदार   in  local and state  राजनीती  ,  विशेषकर  in his home  राज्य   of   वेस्ट  Virginia  .
he   रै  frequently  बोला  out  सरेआम  about politics  ,  the environment , unions , and  कोयले   उत्पादन   .
u.S.   प्रतिभूति   और  Exchange Commission  filings  show  blankenship  was  सशुल्क  $ 17.8  लाख   in  2009 , the highest  in  the coal  उद्योग  .
उसके  2009  अदा  represents a $ 6.8  लाख  raise over 2008  और   लगभग  double his  मुआवजे  package in 2007 .
blankenship  also received a deferred compensation package  valued  at $ 27.2  लाख  in 2009 .
On December 3 ,  2010  , Blankenship announced that he  थी  retiring as CEO at  the  end of  the  year , and would be succeeded by Massey President Baxter F. Phillips  jr   .
Bow Wow is one of  the   transcriptions  used in English  to  describe  a   श्वान   's  bark .
Bow  wow   may  also  refer  to:
धनुष   wow   (   बैंड  )  ,  a  जापानी  hard rock/heavy metal band
Bow Wow  (   rapper   )  ,  an  American rapper  और  actor
धनुष   wow   सॉस   ,  a sauce developed in the  cotswolds  region  of  England
Bow Wow Wow , a UK new wave  बैंड
``  Bow Wow  ''  , a song by The  fiery  Furnaces  इससे  their 2003 album Gallowsbird 's Bark
`` Bow Wow  ब्लूज़  ( My  मामा  Treat Me like a Dog ) ''  ,  a song composed  in  the 1920s by Cliff  dost   &  Nat Osborne
Negligence ( Lat . negligentia , from neglegere  ,  to  उपेक्षा  , literally  ``  not to pick up  कुछ   ''   )   is  a failure  to  exercise the care  कि  a reasonably prudent person would exercise  in  like circumstances  .
The area  of  tort law  ज्ञात  as negligence involves harm caused by carelessness , not intentional harm  .
According to Jay  M.  Feinman of the  rutgers  University  स्कूल  of Law ;
`` The core idea  of  negligence is that people  चाहिए  exercise reasonable care when they  अधिनियम   by  taking account of the potential harm that  वे  might  foreseeably  cause harm  to  other people . ''
`` those who go  personally   or  bring property where they know that they or  it  may come into  टक्कर  with the  व्यक्तियों  or property  of  others  have  by law  a   ड्यूटी   डाल  upon  उन्हें  to use reasonable  परवाह   और  skill to  avoid   ऐसे   a   टक्कर  . ''
फ्लेचर   v  Rylands ( [  1866  ]  lr  1 Ex 265 )
Through civil  वाद   ,  if an  घायल   व्यक्ति  proves that  another  person acted negligently to cause their  चोट  , they can  रिकवर  damages  to  compensate for their harm .
Proving a case for  लापरवाही  can potentially entitle  the   घायल   अभियोक्ता   to   मुआवजे   लिये  harm to their body , property  ,  mental well-being , financial status  ,  or  अंतरंग   संबंध  .
However , because  लापरवाही  cases  हैं  very  fact-specific  ,  इस   सामान्य  definition does not fully explain the  अवधारणा  of  जब  the  विधि   होगा  require  एक  person to compensate another for losses  caused  by accidental injury  .
Further  ,  the law of negligence at  आम   विधि   is  only  एक  aspect  of  the  विधि   of  liability  .
हालांकि   resulting  damages must be proven  in  order to recover  मुआवजे  in a negligence action ,  the  nature and extent of those  क्षतिपूर्ति  are  नहीं  the primary focus  of  negligence  मामले  .
A melanocytic nevus ( also  ज्ञात  as `` Nevocytic  nevus   ''   )  is a type  of  lesion that contains nevus cells (  a   प्रकार  of melanocyte  )  .
Some sources  equate  the term mole with `` melanocytic nevus '' .
अन्य   स्त्रोत   आरक्षित   the  term `` mole  ''   लिये   अन्य  purposes .
The  बहुमत  of  औज़ार  appear during  the  first two  दशकों  of a person’s life  ,  while  परिचय  one in every 100  शिशु   is  born with moles .
acquired   औज़ार  are a  रूप   of  benign neoplasm , while congenital moles ,  or  congenital  nevi   ,  are considered a  नाबालिग  malformation or hamartoma and may  be  at  a   उच्चतर  risk for  melanoma   .
a  mole can be either subdermal ( under  the   स्किन  )  or   a   pigmented  growth on the  स्किन  , formed  ज़्यादातर  of a  प्रकार   of  cell known  as  a  melanocyte  .
The high  विशेषज्ञता   of  the body’s pigmenting agent ,  मेलेनिन   ,  is responsible for their dark  रंग   .
औज़ार  are a member of the  परिवार   of   स्किन  lesions known as nevi .
The comprehensive metabolic panel , or chemical screen  ,  ( CMP ; CPT  कोड   80053  ) is  a   फलक  of 14 blood tests which  serves  as an initial broad  चिकित्सा  screening tool .
The CMP provides a  अशिष्ट   जाँच  of kidney function  ,  liver function  ,   और  electrolyte and fluid balance , but  it  is  दूर  from perfect .
असामान्य  values  इससे  a CBC may be  a  result  of   गलत  positives and  यूँ  the CBC may need  to  be repeated for  a   रोगी  (  or   replaced  with a more  विशिष्ट  test )  .
The CMP  is  an expanded version of the basic metabolic  फलक  ( BMP  )  , which does  नहीं  include liver tests  .
A CMP (  or  BMP  )  can  be   ordered   as  part of  a  routine  शारीरिक   परिक्षा  ,  or  may  be  used to monitor  a   रोगी  with a chronic  बीमारी  , such as diabetes mellitus or hypertension .
पिछला  names  लिये  the panel of tests  have   महरूम  Chem 12 ,  रसायन   फलक  , Chemistry screen , SMA 12  ,  SMA 20 and SMAC ( Sequential Multiple Analysis - Computer ) .
The tests are performed  on  machines based on  the   autoanalyzer  invented in  1957  .
प्राकृतिक   गैस  extraction by countries  in   घन  meters per year .
Natural gas is  a   naturally   occurring  hydrocarbon  गैस   मिश्रण   consisting  primarily of methane , but commonly  सहित  varying amounts  of  other hydrocarbons , carbon dioxide ,  नाइट्रोजन  , and hydrogen sulfide .
Natural gas is an energy source often  प्रयुक्त  for heating , cooking , and electricity  पीढी  .
it  is  भी  used as fuel for vehicles  और   as  a  रासायनिक  feedstock  in   the  manufacture of plastics  और   अन्य  commercially important  सशुल्क  chemicals .
Natural  गैस  is found in deep  भूमिगत  natural  चट्टान  formations  or  associated with  अन्य   हाइड्रोकार्बन   टंकी   in  coal beds and  as   मिथेन  clathrates .
Petroleum  is  also another resource  मिला   in  proximity to and  साथ  natural  गैस   .
Most natural gas was created over time by two mechanisms :  biogenic   और  thermogenic  .
biogenic  gas is created  by   methanogenic  organisms in  marshes  , bogs  ,  landfills , and  उथले   sediments   .
deeper  in the earth ,  at  greater temperature and  दबाव  , thermogenic  गैस  is created from buried  सशुल्क   सामग्री  .
Before natural gas can be used as  a  fuel ,  it   जरूर  undergo processing  to  remove  impurities   ,   सहित  water , to  मिलें  the  विशेषताएँ   of  marketable  प्राकृतिक  gas .
The by-products of  प्रसंस्करण   शामिल  ethane , propane  ,  butanes ,  pentanes  , and  उच्चतर  molecular weight  hydrocarbons  , hydrogen sulfide ( which  may   be  converted into  pure  sulfur )  ,  carbon dioxide , water vapor ,  और  sometimes helium  और  nitrogen  .
प्राकृतिक   गैस   is   प्रायः  informally referred to simply  as  gas , especially when compared to other energy  स्त्रोत   ऐसे  as  आयल  or coal  .
इस  page is about the  कल्पना  Movers band .
For  सूचना   परिचय  the  tv  show starring  the   बैंड  , see  कल्पना   मूवर्स  ( TV series  )  .
कल्पना  Movers is a  बैंड  formed  in   नई  Orleans ,  louisiana   ,  in  2003   .
the  lineup includes Rich Collins  ,  Scott Durbin , Dave Poche , and Scott  ``   smitty   ''  Smith .
Members of the group were  longtime  friends and neighbors .
the  group started  as  a television/music  अवधारणा  which was  pitched   to  local PBS  affiliates  in New Orleans .
WLAE-TV was the  पहला  to take  an  interest in  the  group and later introduced them to Beth Courtney  ,  the President  &  Chief Executive  अधिकारी  at  louisiana  Public Broadcasting .
Soon after , LPB began airing one-minute  वीडियो  produced by the  कल्पना  Movers themselves .
the   मूवर्स   निर्मित  a sizable  क्षेत्रीय  following by  सेटिंग  educational  गीतों  for kids to melodies and  लय  that adults appreciate as well .
They sold more than 100,000 copies of their self-produced  cds   और   dvds  .
Their three  इंडी  CDs :  ``  Good Ideas , '' `` Calling All  मूवर्स   ,  '' and `` Eight Feet ''  साथ  with their  ग्रास  roots DVD ``  हलचल  It Up '' have , combined , won fourteen national awards ,  इससे  such  समूह  as  the   नेशनल  Association of Parenting  publications   (  NAPPA ) and Parents '  चुनाव  .
in  early 2005  ,  Disney took notice , and initiated negotiations to  add  the Movers  to   the  company 's roster .
These were interrupted in  अगस्त   जब  the  बाढ़   सुरक्षा  designed and built by  the   फौज  Corps of Engineers to  protect  New Orleans  विफल   .
The resulting floodwater claimed the band 's  दफ्तर  ,  as   खूब  as the homes of  कॉलिन्स  , Durbin and Poche –  लकिन   the   सौदे  was  हस्ताक्षरित  in the spring of  2006   .
In 2008 , Walt Disney Records introduced  the  Imagination Movers ' music to the nation with the release  of  the Movers ' first nationally-released CD , `` Juice  बक्सा  Heroes .  ''
In  सितंबर   2008   ,  a 30-minute  दिखाएँ  featuring the  समूह  began airing  on   the  Disney Channel  's   प्रीस्कूल  programming  ब्लाक  known as  playhouse  Disney , and currently  airs   on   playhouse  Disney 's  बदलना  , Disney Junior .
The  मूवर्स  write  और   perform   सब   the  songs on their show  .
Moreover  ,   the   कल्पना  Movers have received critical  kudos  for their live  कॉन्सर्ट  performances .
In October  2009   ,  the Imagination  मूवर्स   प्रारंभ  the ``  सजीव  from  the   विचार  Warehouse Concert Tour  2009  '' .
Traveling from  mid-october  to mid-December 2009 their live performances include lots of  उनके   पसंदीदा   गीतों  and dancing  ,   as   खूब   as  video  दिखावे  of Warehouse Mouse .
शुरूआत  in early-February  2011  and wrapping up in  लेट  May 2011 ,  the   कल्पना  Movers presented their `` In a Big Warehouse Concert Tour ,  ''  playing more than  100   shows  in 50+  शहरों   आरपार  North  अमेरिका   .
From March  to  October  2012  ,  the  Imagination Movers toured North America on their  post-disney  `` Rock-O-Matic '' tour .
The show maintained  अनेक   तत्व  of the original  tv   अवधारणा  ,  ऐसे  as an on-stage `` idea  आपात  '' and several sets  इससे   उनके  older catalogue ; however , with the departure of Wendy Calio back to her  देशी  Hawaii , the  अक्षर   ``  Nina '' , along with her musical numbers ,  is  not present  .
the   दौरे   promotes   the   कल्पना  Movers ' new  album/dvd  release  ,  `` Rock-O-Matic ''  ,  which features all new  म्यूज़िक  from the  बैंड   .
the  album itself is produced independently  of  Disney and has a  notably  more mature  ,  contemporary  rock-and-roll   ध्वनि  , though  स्टिल   बहुत  appropriate  लिये  children .
Several performance dates were moved to  बाद  in 2012 to  लाभ  from the increased  एक्सपोज़र   of  the Imagination Movers TV show now  playing  daily  on  Disney Junior .
The platypus  (  Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is  a  semiaquatic mammal  endemic  to eastern Australia  ,  including Tasmania .
Together  साथ  the  चार  species  of  echidna ,  it  is one of the five  extant   प्रजाति   of   monotremes  , the only  स्तनधारियों   कि   lay   अंडे  instead of giving birth .
it   is   the  sole living representative of its  परिवार  ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus (  ornithorhynchus   )   ,   हालांकि  a  क्रमांक  of related species  have  been found in the fossil record .
The unusual appearance  of   इस   egg-laying  , duck  -billed   ,  beaver -tailed , otter -footed mammal  मनोरथ  European naturalists when they first encountered it  ,   साथ   कुछ  considering it an elaborate fraud .
It is one of the few  विषैला   स्तनधारियों   ,  the male  platypus  having a spur on the  हिन्द   पैर  that delivers a venom capable of causing  कठोर  pain  to  humans .
the  unique features of the platypus make  it  an important subject  in   the   पढ़ाई  of  विकासवादी  biology and  a  recognisable and  iconic  symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a  शुभंकर  at national events and is  प्रदर्शित  on  the   रिवर्स  of its 20-cent  सिक्का  .
The  platypus  is the animal emblem of the  राज्य  of  नई  South Wales  .
Until the early 20th  सदी  , it was hunted  लिये  its fur , but  it  is  अभी   सुरक्षित  throughout its  दायरा  .
Although captive breeding programmes have had only limited success and the  platypus  is vulnerable to  the  effects  of  pollution ,  it  is not under  कोई  immediate threat  .
the   chupacabra   or  Chupacabras ( ,  इससे  chupar `` to suck '' and cabra ``  बकरी  ''  ,  literally ``  बकरी  sucker  ''  ) is a legendary  cryptid   rumored  to  inhabit  parts of the Americas .
it  is  संबद्ध  more recently with sightings of  an   allegedly   अनजान  animal in Puerto Rico  (  where these sightings  यहूद  first  reported  )  ,  Mexico ,  और  the United States  ,   विशेषकर  in the  latter   's  Latin American communities .
The  नाम  comes  इससे  the animal 's  reported  habit of  attacking   और  drinking the blood of livestock , especially  बकरियों  .
शारीरिक   descriptions  of  the  creature vary  .
Eyewitness  sightings  have  महरूम  claimed as early as 1995 in Puerto Rico , and  have  since been reported as far north as  maine   ,  and as far south as  चिली  , and even being spotted outside the Americas in countries like Russia and The Philippines  .
It  is  supposedly a heavy  प्राणी  , the size  of  a small bear , with a  पंक्ति  of spines reaching  इससे  the neck  to  the base of  the  tail .
sighting  reports of the  chupacabra  have  महरूम  disregarded as uncorroborated  or  lacking evidence  ,   जबकि  most reports in  उत्तरी  Mexico  और  the  दक्षिणी  United  राज्य   have   महरूम  verified  as   canids   afflicted  by mange .
biologists  and wildlife management officials view the  chupacabra   as  a contemporary legend  .
The North American Free  व्यापार  Agreement ( NAFTA  )  is an  अनुबंध  signed  by  Canada , Mexico ,  और  the  संयुक्त  States , creating a trilateral trade  bloc  in North America .
the  agreement came into force on  जनवरी  1 , 1994 .
It superseded  the  Canada–United States  फ़्री   व्यापार  Agreement between the U.S.  ,  Canada , and Mexico
NAFTA has two supplements : the North  अमरीकी  Agreement on Environmental Cooperation (  naaec  ) and the North American  अनुबंध  on Labor Cooperation  (   naalc   )  .
Thermal  सुकून  is  the   कंडीशन  of mind that  expresses  satisfaction with the  थर्मल  environment and is assessed by subjective evaluation ( ANSI / ASHRAE  मानक  55 ) .
Maintaining  इस   मानक   of  thermal comfort  लिये   occupants  of  इमारतें   or  other  enclosures  is one of the  महत्वपूर्ण  goals of HVAC (  हीटिंग   ,  ventilation , and air  कंडीशनिंग  )  डिज़ाइन  engineers .
The Predicted Mean Vote (  pmv  ) model stands among the most  पहचाना  thermal comfort models  .
It  थी  developed using  सिद्धान्त   of  heat balance and experimental  आंकड़ा  collected in  a  controlled  जलवायु   कक्ष  under  स्थिर  state conditions  .
क्युकी   the  PMV  मॉडल   थी  derived from  आंकड़ा  collected in a controlled climate , it  is   नहीं  suitable for  अनुप्रयोग  in naturally ventilated  स्पेसेस  which often have  ऊँची  levels of air movement .
This shortcoming motivated the  विकास  of a  परिवार  of empirical  सांख्यिकीय   मॉडल  of  थर्मल  comfort  in   naturally  ventilated  स्पेसेस  known as adaptive  मॉडल  .
Adaptive  मॉडल  of thermal comfort consider occupants as  dynamically   interacting   साथ  their  पर्यावरण  , and  controlling  their thermal comfort by  अर्थात्  of clothing or window-opening and  closing  .
This is in  कंट्रास्ट  to thermal comfort in sealed buildings , in which  occupants   अनुभव   the  environment  passively  .
Thermal comfort is affected by heat conduction , convection , radiation  ,  and  evaporative  heat  घाटा  .
Thermal comfort  is  maintained when  the  heat generated by human  चयापचय   is  allowed to  dissipate  ,  यूँ  maintaining thermal equilibrium with the surroundings .
It has been long recognized  कि  the  सनसनी  of feeling hot  or   ठंडा   is  not  बस  dependent on  एयर  temperature  अलोन  .
Thermal comfort calculations according to ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 55 can be freely performed with the  cbe  Thermal Comfort  औजार  for ASHRAE-55  .
durante  degli Alighieri , simply referred  to   as  Dante ( , ; ; c. 1265–1321 ) ,  थी  a major Italian poet of the Middle  आयु  .
His Divine Comedy , originally called ' and later called  '   by   boccaccio  , is  widely  considered the  महानतम   साहित्यिक  work composed in the Italian  भाषा  and  a  masterpiece of  संसार  literature .
In  इटली   he  is known as ' ( `` the  परम्   कवि  '' )  or  just  '   .
He  ,  Petrarch and Boccaccio are also  ज्ञात   as  `` the  तीन  fountains  ''   or   ``  the three crowns ''  .
Dante  is   भी  called the ``  पिता  of the  इतालवी  language ''  .
मुख्यालय  ( Kobe , Japan )
( ) is a tire and rubber company  आधारित  in Japan .
It is part of the Sumitomo Group .
The  कम्पनी   traces   इसके  origins to  1909  , when the Sumitomo Group made an investment in Dunlop Japan , the  newly  formed  जापानी  subsidiary of the British  कम्पनी  Dunlop Rubber .
Over the years  sumitomo   और  Dunlop  विकसित  a close  कारोबार   संबंध  ,  और  in 1963 the  sumitomo  Group acquired control  of   dunlop   जापानी  and  renamed  it Sumitomo Rubber  उद्योग   ltd  .
In 1985 , when Dunlop Rubber  थी  taken over by BTR plc  ,   the   कम्पनी  acquired the  ऑटोमोबाइल   टायर  assets of Dunlop ,  सहित   the  right to  उपयोग  the Dunlop brand on automobile  टायर   .
The acquisition  किया  not include  the  US and Australian businesses , which  यहूद  separately owned  ,  but  in  1986  sumitomo  also  acquired  the Dunlop  टायर   निगम  of the US  इससे  its management .
In  1997   ,  Sumitomo formed a  संयुक्त  venture  साथ  Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company  ,  by which Goodyear and Sumitomo agreed to manufacture tires for each other  's  markets  ,  including Dunlop branded  टायर   .
As  भाग  of the agreement  ,   goodyear  acquired 75 %  रूचि  in Dunlop Tyres , the  uk  company which  sumitomo  had formed  ,   और   in  Dunlop Tire Corporation .
Goodyear and Sumitomo also made  निवेश  in  प्रत्येक  other .
Today  ,  the company makes a wide range  of   रबर  based products , including automobile tires ,  गोल्फ़  balls and tennis balls  .
Microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set  of  freeware integrated development  environments  ( IDE  )  developed  by  Microsoft  कि  are lightweight versions of the Microsoft  विज़ुअल   स्टुडियो  product line  .
Express Editions were conceived beginning with  विज़ुअल  Studio 2005  .
The idea of Express editions is to provide  streamlined  ,  easy-to-use  and easy-to-learn IDEs  लिये   उपयोक्ता   अन्य   than  professional software developers , such  as   hobbyists   और   विद्यार्थी  .
The Alps  हैं   एक  of the  ग्रेट   पहाड़   दायरा  systems of Europe  stretching  approximately across eight Alpine countries from Austria and Slovenia in  the  east  ,   स्विट्ज़रलैंड   ,  Liechtenstein  ,  Germany  ,   फ़्रांस   to  the west and Italy and Monaco  to   the  south  .
The mountains were formed over hundreds of millions of years as the African and Eurasian tectonic plates  collided  .
Extreme shortening caused by the event  resulted  in  समुद्री   sedimentary   रॉक्स   उठती  by  thrusting  and folding  into  high mountain peaks  ऐसे   as  Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn .
Mont Blanc spans the French–Italian  किनारा  ,  और  at  is   the   उच्चतम  mountain in  the  Alps  .
The Alpine region area contains many peaks higher than , known  as  the `` four-thousanders `` .
the   ऊँचाई  and  आकार   of  the  दायरा  affects the climate  in  Europe  ;  in  the  mountains  वर्षण  levels vary  greatly  and  climatic  conditions consist  of  distinct zones  .
Wildlife such  as   ibex   सजीव  in the higher peaks to elevations of , and  पौधे  such  as  Edelweiss  grow  in rocky areas in lower elevations  as  well  as   in  higher  elevations  .
Evidence of human habitation in  the  Alps goes back to the Paleolithic era .
a  mummified man , determined  to   be  5,000 years old ,  थी  discovered  on  a  हिमानी  at the  austrian–italian  border in  1991   .
By the  6th  century BC , the Celtic La  tène   संस्कृति  was well established .
hannibal  may have crossed the Alps with  a  herd of  हाथियों  , and  the  Romans had settlements in  the   प्रदेश   .
In 1800 Napoleon crossed one of  the  mountain passes  साथ   an  army of  40,000  .
The  18th  and  19th  centuries saw an  influx  of naturalists  ,   लेखक   ,  and artists ,  in  particular  the  Romantics  ,  followed by  the  golden age of alpinism  as  mountaineers  began  to ascend the peaks .
In World War II the  तीसरा   reich  invaded  the  Alpine countries ,  साथ   the   एक्सेप्शन  of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; Adolf  हिटलर  kept a base of  आपरेशन   in   the  Bavarian Alps  throughout  the war .
The Alpine region has a strong cultural identity .
The traditional culture of farming , cheesemaking ,  और  woodworking  स्टिल  exists  in  Alpine  गांवों  ,  हालांकि  the tourist industry began to  grow   जल्दी  in the  20th   सदी   और   विस्तारित   greatly  after World War II to become the dominant  उद्योग  by the end of the century  .
The Winter Olympic Games have  महरूम  hosted  in  the Swiss ,  फ्रेंच   ,  Italian  ,  Austrian and German Alps .
At  उपस्थित  the region is home to 14 million  लोगों   और  has 120 million annual visitors .
लोइस  Patrice  griffin  ( née Pewterschmidt )  is  a character from the animated  टेलीविज़न  series Family Guy  .
She is voiced  by   लेखक  Alex Borstein and first  appeared   on  television ,  साथ   साथ  the  बाकी  of  the  family in the 15-minute short on December 20 , 1998  .
लोइस  was created  और  designed by series creator  सेठ   macfarlane   .
macfarlane  was asked to  पिच   a  pilot  to  the  फॉक्स   प्रसारण  Company based on Larry and  स्टीव  , a short made  by  MacFarlane  जिससे   प्रदर्शित   a   middle-aged  character named Larry and an intellectual  श्वान  , Steve .
बाद  the  पायलट  was  दिए  the green light , the  griffin  family appeared on the episode  ``  Death  रै   a   छाया   ``   .
Lois is  the   माँ  of the Griffin family .
With her husband Peter , she has had  तीन   children  :  मेग  , Chris  ,   और  Stewie .
Lois is  प्रायः  portrayed as  a  stereotypical  टेलीविज़न  mother  ,  despite her admitting to  होने  a drug  उपयोक्ता  , a  recovering   मेथ  addict  kleptomaniac  .
Lois has also  था  several affairs , one of which allegedly  resulted  in the conception of Meg .
वो  has  appeared  in other media  relating  to  परिवार  Guy—including  a  video game , commercials and  books—and  inspired an entire  लकीर  of  merchandise  .
Lois 's distinctive  नई  York accent originated from  a  character  in   a  stage show that Alex Borstein had performed  in   ,  which was largely  प्रेरित  by a relative who grew up  on  Long Island  ,  New  यॉर्क  .
Family  हस्तांतरण  of  बास्क   भाषा  ( Basque  as  initial  भाषा   )
Percentage of  विद्यार्थी   पंजीकृत  in Basque  भाषा  schools ( 2000–2005 )  .
स्थान  of the  basque-language   प्रांतों  within Spain  और   फ़्रांस
बास्क  ( endonym :  ,  )  is   the   ancestral  language  of  the Basque people  ,  who inhabit  the  Basque Country ,  a  region spanning an area in northeastern  स्पेन  and  southwestern  France .
It is spoken  by  27  %  of Basques  in  all  territories  ( 714,136 out of 2,648,998 ) .
Of these , 663,035 live in  the  Spanish part of the  बास्क  country and the remaining 51,100  सजीव  in the  फ्रेंच  part .
In academic discussions of  the   वितरण  of Basque in Spain and  फ़्रांस  , it is customary to refer to three ancient  प्रांतों  in France and four  स्पेनी  provinces  .
देशी   अध्यक्षों  are concentrated in a contiguous area including parts  of   the  Spanish autonomous communities  of  the Basque Country  और  Navarre and in the  पश्चिमी   हाफ   of  the French département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques .
the  Basque  autonomous  Community is an administrative  एंटिटी   भीतर  the binational  ethnographic   बास्क  Country incorporating the  परंपरागत  Spanish  प्रांतों   of   biscay  , Gipuzkoa  ,   और  Álava ,  जिससे  retain their  अस्तित्व   as   politico-administrative   विभाजन  .
ये  provinces  और  many areas of Navarre are heavily populated  by  ethnic  basques   ,  but Basque was  ,  at least until the 1990s ,  नहीं   बोला  as  a  native language in most of Álava , western  भाग  of Biscay  और  central  और  southern  क्षेत्रों  of Navarre  ,  either  क्युकी  it had been replaced by  स्पेनी  along  the   सदियां  , in some areas  ,  or because  it  had never been  बोला   वहीँ  , in other  क्षेत्रों  .
in  southwestern  फ़्रांस  , the ancient Basque-populated  प्रांतों  were Labourd , Lower  नावारा  , and Soule .
They  और   अन्य  regions were consolidated into a single département in 1790 under  the   नाम  Basses-Pyrénées , a name which persisted until  1970  .
a  standardized form  of  the  बास्क  language , called Euskara  batua  ,  थी   विकसित  by  the  Basque  भाषा  Academy in  the  late 1960s .
Euskara Batua  थी   निर्मित  so  कि  Basque language could be used—and easily understood by all Basque speakers—in formal  परिस्थितियों   (  education ,  द्रव्यमान  media , literature ) , and this is its  प्रमुख  use today .
the   भूमिका  of this  मानक   बास्क  language  depends  on the linguistic educational  मॉडल  of  प्रत्येक  region  और   प्रत्येक   स्कूल  .
In  सबसे  areas of the  स्पेनी  Basque Country , the educational Model  d  , where all subjects are taught  in   बास्क  , except  ``  Spanish  भाषा  and  साहित्य   ''  ( which  is  taught  in   स्पेनी  )  is  now the  predominant  model .
In France  ,  the Basque  भाषा  school  seaska   और  the association  लिये  a  दुभाषिया   (  Basque and  फ्रेंच   )  schooling Ikasbi  मिलें   a  wide range of Basque language educational needs up to the  छठे  Form , while often struggling to surmount  वित्तीय  and  प्रशासनिक  constraints .
Apart from this  मानकीकृत   संस्करण  , there are five main Basque dialects :  bizkaian  ,  gipuzkoan   ,  and Upper Navarrese in Spain , and Navarrese–Lapurdian and Zuberoan  (  in France ) .
Although they take their names from the mentioned historic provinces , the  dialect   सीमाएँ   हैं   नहीं  congruent with province boundaries .
the   अध्यक्ष  , Directors and  कम्पनी   ,  of the  बैंको  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ,  commonly   ज्ञात   as  the First  बैंको  of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  , was a central bank  ,  chartered for  a  term of  बीस  years  ,  by the United States Congress on February 25 ,  1791  .
Establishment of the  बैंको  was included in a three-part  विस्तार   of  federal fiscal  और  monetary power  (  along  साथ  a  संघीय   मिंट  and excise taxes ) championed by Alexander  हैमिल्टन  , first Secretary of  the   राजकोष   .
Hamilton believed a central bank was necessary to stabilize and  improve  the  स्वदेश  's credit , and to  improve  handling  of  the financial business  of  the United  राज्य  government  अंतर्गत   the  newly enacted Constitution  .
Officially proposed  to   the  first session  of   the   पहला  Congress in 1790 , Hamilton 's Bank  faced  widespread resistance  इससे  opponents  of  increased federal power .
Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson and  जेम्स   मैडिसन  led the  विपक्ष  , which  claimed   कि   the  bank was unconstitutional , and that it  benefited  merchants and  निवेशकों   at  the expense  of  the majority  of  the population .
the   पहला  Bank  भवन  is now  a  National Historic Landmark located in Philadelphia ,  पेन्सिलवेनिया  within Independence National Historical Park .
James Wesley Marsters ( born August 20 , 1962 ) is  an   अमरीकी  actor and musician .
marsters   पहला  came to the  ध्यान  of the general public playing  the  popular  अक्षर  Spike ,  a  platinum-blond yobbish English  पिशाच  in the television  श्रेणी  Buffy the Vampire Slayer  और  its spin-off series ,  देवदूत  , from 1997  to  2004 .
Since then  ,  he  रै  gone on  to   खेल  other science fiction roles , such as the  एलियन  supervillain Brainiac on the Superman -inspired series  smallville  , the omnisexual  समय  traveller Captain  जॉन  Hart in British  science-fiction  show Torchwood  और   आतंकवादी  Barnabas Greeley in  sci  fi 's  caprica   .
Marsters appeared in a  supporting   भूमिका   in  the 2007 movie P.S .
I Love You and as the main  विपक्षी  , Piccolo ,  in   the  2009 fantasy adventure film Dragonball  एवोल्यूशन  .
He appeared as a recurring character in the first season  of   the  revival of  हवाई  5-0 .
In molecular biology  ,  human  chorionic  gonadotropin  (   hcg  ) is  a  hormone produced by the fertilized  अंडा  after  धारणा  .
Later  दौरान   गर्भावस्था  it  is   बना  by the developing placenta  ,  and  बाद  by the  placental  component syncytiotrophoblast  .
Some cancerous tumors produce  इस   हार्मोन   ;  therefore , elevated  स्तर  measured when the patient  is   नहीं  pregnant can lead to a cancer  निदान  .
however  ,  it   is   नहीं  known whether this  उत्पादन  is  a  contributing cause  or  an effect of tumorigenesis .
the  pituitary  एनॉलॉग  of  hcg  , known as  luteinizing  hormone ( LH )  ,   is   उत्पादित  in the pituitary  ग्रंथि   of  males  और   महिलाओं   of  all ages  .
, the FDA has prohibited  the  sale of `` homeopathic '' and over the  काउंटर   hcg   आहार   उत्पाद  and declared  उन्हें  fraudulent  और  illegal  .
बेयोंस  Giselle Knowles-Carter  ,  known by  उसके   स्टेज  name Beyoncé (  ;   born  September  4   ,   1981  )  ,  is  an   अमरीकी   सिंगर  ,  songwriter  , dancer  ,  and actress .
Born and  उठाया   in   ह्यूस्टन   ,   टेक्सास  , she performed  in  singing and  नाचना  competitions as  a   चाइल्ड  before  forming   in   1990  a  समूह  with Kelly Rowland  और   latavia  Roberson that was eventually named Destiny  's  Child .
एकबार  signed to Columbia Records , the girls subsequently became one of the  संसार  's  best-selling  girl groups of  सब  time .
the  group was plagued by internal conflict and legal turmoil and Knowles  suffered  from depression that lasted for a number of years .
During the group  's  hiatus , Knowles released her debut solo  एल्बम  Dangerously in Love (  2003  ) , which  अर्जित  her  पाँच  Grammy Awards  और  has sold a  कुल  of 4.9  लाख  copies in the US alone .
it  spawned Billboard number one singles `` Crazy in Love  ,  '' considered by  vh1  to be the ``  महानतम   सोंग  Of the  00  's , ''  और  ``  baby  Boy . ''
following  the disbandment  of  Destiny 's Child in 2005 , Knowles 's second  सोलो  album B'Day ( 2006 ) contained the top five singles `` Déjà Vu `` , `` Irreplaceable `` , and ``  खूबसूरत  Liar `` .
Her  प्रदर्शन   in  Dreamgirls (  2006  ) earned  उसके   दो  Golden  ग्लोब   nominations  .
Knowles  '   कार्य  playing  etta  James in  कि   फिल्मी  inspired her subsequent  एल्बम  I Am  ...
Sasha  fierce  ( 2008 ) which  शाखित   हिट्स  `` If  i   यहूद  a Boy  ``   ,  `` Single Ladies ( Put a Ring  on   it  ) `` ,  ``  Halo `` , and  ``  Sweet  सपनो   ``  .
The  एल्बम  also helped Knowles earn six  grammys  in  2010  ,  तोड़कर   the  record  लिये  most  ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार  won  by  a female  कलाकार  in one  रात्रि  .
Her fourth album  4  ( 2011 ) deviated towards  परंपरागत   r  & B and became  उसके   चौथी  consecutive  क्रमांक  one album on the  बिलबोर्ड  200 .
in  January 2012  ,  Knowles gave birth  to  daughter  ब्लू  Ivy Carter  ,  her  पहला   चाइल्ड  with husband  jay-z  .
नॉलेस   रै  sold over 13  लाख  albums in the US and 118 million  रिकॉर्ड   विश्वव्यापी   (  as well as  a  further 50 million  रिकॉर्ड  with Destiny 's Child ) , and is one of the best-selling music artists of  सब  time  .
The  रिकॉर्डिंग  Industry  संघ  of America (  riaa  )  पहचाना  Knowles as  the   शीर्ष  Certified Artist of the 2000s  .
In 2009 , Billboard  नामित  her the Top Radio Songs  कलाकार  of the decade and  क्रमित   उसके   the  Top  मादा  Artist  और  the fourth Artist of the Decade .
बेयोंस   नॉलेस   is   the  most nominated woman in Grammy Award history , receiving 17 awards  ;  other accolades include 12  एमटीवी  Video  म्यूज़िक  Awards  ,  7 Billboard Awards including  a  Millennium  पुरस्कार  , and a star on the Hollywood Walk  of  Fame as part of  नियति   's   चाइल्ड  .
``   एंग्री  All  the   समय   ''  is  the   शीर्षक  of  a   सोंग  written by Bruce  robison  and first  अंकित  on his 1998 album Wrapped .
It was  बाद  covered by  टिम   mcgraw  with  अतिथि  vocalist Faith  हिल   .
released  in July  2001  ,  mcgraw  's version was the second single from  mcgraw   's   नियत  This  सर्कस  Down  एल्बम  .
The song reached  क्रमांक  One  on  the Billboard Hot Country  singles  & Tracks (  अभी   hot  Country Songs  )  charts .
Dear John is a 2010 American romantic drama  -   युद्ध  film starring Amanda Seyfried and Channing Tatum .
it  was released theatrically in  उत्तर  America  on   फ़रवरी   5  , 2010 .
the  film was directed by Lasse  hallström  , and it is an adaptation of Nicholas Sparks  's  novel of the same  नाम  .
It  फ़ॉलो   the  life  of  a  सिपाही   (   चेनिंग  Tatum )  बाद   he  falls in love  साथ  a  यंग  woman ( Amanda Seyfried ) .
They  decide   to  exchange  अक्षर   to  each other  बाद   he   is  deployed to the war  .
the   फिल्म   थी  filmed in 2009  in  Charleston ,  दक्षिण   कैरोलिना   .
Despite receiving negative reviews  ,  the film  बना  a strong  बक्सा  office performance  ,   knocking   बंद  Avatar after  सात  weekends in first place and grossing a total of  $   114,977,104   विश्वव्यापी  .
The film  थी  released  on  May 25 , 2010  on  DVD and Blu-ray  .
These are lists  of  the busiest  एयरपोर्ट  in the  संयुक्त  States  .
Hartsfield–Jackson  अटलांटा  International Airport is the busiest single  विमानक्षेत्र  in the United  राज्य  .
However , all of  the  New York City  महानगर   क्षेत्रफल  's airports combine to create the largest  विमानक्षेत्र   प्रणाली  in the United States  ,   दूसरी   in   the  world in terms of passenger traffic , and first  in  the world in terms  of  total flight operations .
Dora the Explorer is an  अमरीकी  animated television series  निर्मित  by Chris Gifford ,  वैलेरी  Walsh , and  eric   weiner  .
Dora the Explorer  became   a  regular series in 2000 .
the  show  is  carried on the Nickelodeon  केबल   टेलीविज़न  network ,  सहित  the associated Nick  jr.  channel .
it  aired on CBS until September 2006  .
A Spanish-dubbed version first aired as  भाग  of  a   उपनाम  en español  ब्लाक  on  एनबीसी   सार्वभौमिक  -owned Telemundo  through  September  2006  ;  चूंकि  April 2008 ,  इस  version of the  कार्यक्रम  has  महरूम   carried   on  Univision as part of the Planeta  u   ब्लाक  .
Santa Fe ( ; ( Tewa : Ogha Po'oge , ) )  is   the   पूंजी  of the U.S. state  of   नई   मैक्सिको   .
It is the fourth-largest  नगर  in the state  और   is  the seat of .
Santa  fe  (  अर्थ   “holy   faith”   in  Spanish ) had a population of 67,947  in  the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
It is  the   प्रिंसिपल  city of a  महानगर  Statistical Area which encompasses all  of  Santa  fe   काउंटी  and  is  part of the larger Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las Vegas Combined  सांख्यिकीय  Area  .
The city’s full  नाम   जब   संस्थापित   थी  La Villa  रियल   de  la Santa  fé  de San Francisco de Asís  (  “The Royal  कस्बा   of  the  पावन  Faith  of  St. Francis of Assisi”  )  .
Pepsi ( stylized in  लोअरकेस  as pepsi  ,  formerly  stylized   in  uppercase as PEPSI ) is  a   कार्बोनेटेड  soft drink that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo .
निर्मित  and developed in  1893  and introduced as Brad 's  पेय  , it was renamed as  pepsi-cola  on August 28  ,  1898 ,  तब  to  पेप्सी  in 1961 .
1765 Broadside
the  Sons of  स्वतंत्रता  was a  समूह  consisting of  अमरीकी   देशप्रेमी  that originated  in  the pre-independence North American British colonies .
The group was formed to  protect  the rights  of  the colonists and  to  take to the streets against the taxes by  the   अंग्रेजों  government  .
They  हैं   बेहतरीन   ज्ञात   लिये  undertaking  the   बोस्टन  Tea  पार्टी  in 1773  ,  which led  to   the  Intolerable Acts  (   an   तीव्र  crackdown by the British  सरकारी  )  ,   और  a counter-mobilization  by  the Patriots .
Osaka  किला
is a city in the Kansai  प्रदेश   of   जापानी   's  main island of  होन्शू  ,  a  designated city under the Local  स्वायत्तता  Law , the capital city  of  Osaka  प्रीफ़ेक्चर   और  also the largest part of the Keihanshin metropolis , which comprises three major cities of Japan , Kyoto  ,  Osaka and  कोबे  .
स्तिथ   at  the mouth of the Yodo River on Osaka  खाड़ी  , Osaka is Japan 's third  largest  city  by  population after Tokyo ( special  wards   )   और   yokohama  .
Keihanshin is  the   दूसरी  largest metropolitan area  in  Japan  by  population and one of the largest  महानगर  areas highly  क्रमित  in  the  world ,  साथ  nearly 19 million people , and by  जीडीपी  the  दूसरी   largest  area in Japan and the seventh  largest   क्षेत्रफल   in  the world .
Historically the commercial  बीच  of  जापानी  , Osaka  कृत्यों  as one of  the  command  centers   लिये  the  जापानी  economy .
the  ratio between  दिन   और  night time  जनसांख्यिकी  is  141  % ,  the  highest in Japan ,  highlighting  its status as an  आर्थिक  center .
Its nighttime  जनसांख्यिकी  is 2.6 million ,  the  third  in  the country , but in  दिन   the  population surges to  3.7  million , second only after  टोकियो   (  combining the special wards of Tokyo , which is not a  सिंगल  incorporated  नगर  , for statistical purposes ; see  the   टोकियो   आलेख  for more  सूचना  on  the   परिभाषा   और  makeup  of  Tokyo ) .
Osaka  प्रयुक्त  to be  referred  to  as   the  in  सामंती  Edo period  क्युकी  it  थी   the  centre  of  trading for rice  ,  creating the  पहला  modern futures  एक्सचेंज   मार्केट  in  the   संसार  .
The Little Mermaid is a 1989 American animated musical fantasy film produced by  वॉल्ट  Disney  विशेषता   एनिमेशन  and  वितरित  by  वॉल्ट  Disney Pictures .
आधारित  on the Danish fairy tale by Hans Christian  andersen  ,  the  Little Mermaid  tells  the  स्टोरी  of a beautiful mermaid  जो  dreams of becoming human .
Written , directed , and produced  by  Ron Clements and John  musker  , with music by Alan Menken and  हावर्ड   ashman  ,  the  film features the voices Jodi Benson , Christopher Daniel  barnes   ,  Pat Carroll ,  सैमुएल   E.  Wright , Jason Marin ,  केनेथ  Mars  ,  Buddy  hacket   ,  and  रेने  Auberjonois .
The 28th  फिल्मी  in the  वॉल्ट  Disney Animated  क्लासिक  series ,  the  Little Mermaid  थी  released to  थिएटर  on  नवम्बर   14   ,  1989 to  largely  positive reviews ,  garnering   $   84  million at  the  box office during  इसके  initial  रिलीज  , and $  211  million in total lifetime  सकल  .
बाद  the  कामयाबी  of the 1988 Disney / Amblin  फिल्मी   जो  Framed Roger Rabbit , The  छोटी  Mermaid is given credit for breathing  जीवन  back  into   the  art  of   डिज़्नी  animated feature films after a string of  नाजुक  or commercial  असफलताओं  produced by Disney that dated back to the early  1970s  .
It also marked the start of  the  era known as the Disney  पुनर्जागरण   .
A  स्टेज  adaptation  of   the  film with  a  book  by   डग  Wright and additional songs by  एलन  Menken  और   नई   गीतों  Glenn Slater opened in Denver  in   जुलाई  2007 and began performances on Broadway  जनवरी  10 , 2008 .
alt=Close-up photo  of   a   मेटल  spoon filled with  a  viscous , clear purple fluid
Purple  पिया  is  a  slang term  लिये  a recreational  ड्रग  popular  in   the  hip hop community in  the   दक्षिणी  United States  ,   originating  in  ह्यूस्टन   ,  Texas  .
Its  प्रमुख  ingredient is prescription -strength cough syrup containing  codeine  and  promethazine   .
Cough syrup is  typically  mixed with  संघटक  such  as   sprite  soft drink or Mountain Dew and pieces of  प्रसन्न  Rancher candy .
the   purplish  hue  of   जामुनी  drank  आता  from dyes in  the  cough  सिरप  .
There are  numerous  slang terms for  जामुनी  drank ,  सहित  sizzurp , lean , syrup  ,   पिया  , barre  ,   जामुनी  jelly , Texas  चाय   ,  and Tsikuni  .
first/given   ,  middle  ,  and last/family/surname  आरेख  with J.  S.   बच  as  उदाहरण  .
J.  S.  बच  shared his given name  साथ  six immediate  परिवार   सदस्यों  and many extended family members .
he  shared his family name with most family members  .
A given name ,  in  Western contexts often  referred   to  as a first name ,  is   a  personal  नाम   कि   specifies   और   differentiates   between  members  of   a   समूह  of individuals , especially in a  परिवार  ,  सब  of  जिनकी  members  प्रायः  share the  वही   परिवार  name ( surname  )  .
A given name is  purposefully  given , usually by a  चाइल्ड  's parents at or  निकट   जनम   ,  in contrast to an  inherited  one such as a family name  .
A given  नाम   is  sometimes  legally  changed through  a  name change  .
दिए  names  हैं   प्रायः  used in a  परिचित  and friendly manner in informal situations  .
In more formal situations the surname  is  used instead , unless it is necessary  to   फर्क  between people  साथ  the same surname  .
the  idiom `` on a first-name basis  ''  (  or  `` on  first-name   शर्तें  ''  )  alludes to the  अपनेपन  of  संबोधित  another  by   a   दिए  name  .
The western style of having  दोनो  a family name ( surname  )   और  a given name  is   दूर   इससे  universal .
In  अनेक   देशों   it  is common  लिये  ordinary  लोगों  to have only one name ( a mononym ) .
Hydrochloric  एसिड   is  a clear , colourless solution of hydrogen chloride ( H Cl ) in water .
it   is   a  highly corrosive , strong  खनिज  acid with many industrial uses .
Hydrochloric acid is found  naturally   in  gastric acid .
Historically  पुकारा  muriatic acid , and spirits of salt  ,   हाइड्रोक्लोरिक  acid was produced  इससे  vitriol  (   sulfuric  acid )  और  common salt  .
It first appeared  दौरान   the  Renaissance , and then it was  प्रयुक्त  by chemists such as Glauber , Priestley and  डेवी  in their scientific  शोध   .
With major production  starting   in  the Industrial Revolution  ,  hydrochloric acid  is  used in the chemical industry as  a   रासायनिक   अभिकर्मक   in  the large-scale production of  विनाइल  chloride for PVC plastic , and  mdi   /  TDI  लिये  polyurethane .
It has numerous smaller-scale  अनुप्रयोग  ,  सहित  household cleaning , production  of  gelatin  और  other  खाना  additives ,  descaling  , and leather processing  .
About  20  million tonnes of  हाइड्रोक्लोरिक  acid are produced  annually   .
Wheat ( Triticum spp  .  ) is a cereal grain  ,  originally from the  levant  region  of  the Near East and Ethiopian  हाइलैंड्स   ,   लकिन  now  cultivated  worldwide  .
In  2010   ,   संसार   उत्पादन   of   गेहूं   थी  651 million tons  ,  making  it  the third  most-produced  cereal after maize ( 844  लाख  tons )  और  rice ( 672 million  टन  ) .
गेहूं  was the second most-produced cereal  in  2009 ; world production in  कि  year was 682 million tons , after  मक्का  ( 817 million  टन  ) ,  और  with  राइस   as  a  बंद   तीसरा   (  679 million  टन   )  .
This grain  is  grown on more  जमीन   क्षेत्रफल  than any  अन्य  commercial food .
संसार  trade in wheat  is  greater  than  for  सब  other crops combined .
Globally , wheat  is  the  अग्रणी  source  of  vegetable protein in human food  ,   having   a  higher protein content than soybeans or  the  other major cereals , maize (  मकई  )  or  rice .
in   शर्तें  of  कुल  production  tonnages  used for  खाना   ,  it is currently  दूसरी   to  rice  as   the   प्रमुख  human food  क्रॉप  and ahead  of   मक्का  ,  बाद  allowing for maize 's more extensive use  in  animal  फ़ीड्स  .
Wheat  थी  a key  फ़ैक्टर   enabling  the emergence of city-based  समाजों  at the  प्रारंभ  of  सभ्यता  because it was one of the first crops  कि  could be easily cultivated on a  विशाल  scale ,  और   था  the additional advantage of yielding a  कटाई  that provides long-term storage  of   खाना  .
गेहूं   contributed  to the emergence of  city-states   in   the  Fertile Crescent , including  the  Babylonian  और  Assyrian empires .
Wheat grain is a staple food used to  मेक  flour  लिये  leavened  ,  flat  और   steamed   breads  , biscuits , cookies ,  cakes   ,  breakfast cereal , pasta ,  नूडल्स   ,  couscous  और  for fermentation  to   मेक   बियर  , other  alcoholic  beverages , or  biofuel  .
Wheat  is  planted  to  a  सीमित  extent as  a  forage  क्रॉप   लिये   पशुधन  , and  इसके  straw can  be   प्रयुक्त  as  a   निर्माण  material  लिये  roofing thatch  .
The whole grain  can  be  milled  to leave just  the  endosperm for  श्वेत  flour .
the  by-products of  इस  are bran and germ .
The whole grain is a concentrated source  of  vitamins ,  खनिज   ,  and protein  ,  while the refined grain is  ज़्यादातर  starch .
Printing
To publish  is  to make content available to the general  पब्लिक  .
While specific use of  the   पद  may vary  among  countries ,  it   is  usually applied to  टेक्स्ट   ,  images , or other  audio-visual  content on any  परंपरागत  medium , including  पेपर  ( newspapers , magazines ,  कैटलॉग  , etc  .   )  .
the   शब्द  publication means  the   अधिनियम   of   प्रकाशन  , and  भी  refers to  कोई  printed copies .
मेलिसा   &   जॉय  is an  एबीसी  Family original television  श्रेणी  starring Melissa  जोन  Hart  और   जॉय   लॉरेंस  .
it  first aired on ABC  परिवार   on   अगस्त   17  , 2010 .
the  series  फ़ॉलो   लोकल   राजनेता  Mel Burke ( Melissa Joan Hart ) and Joe Longo (  जॉय  Lawrence ) , whom Mel hires to look after  उसके  niece and nephew after a Ponzi  योजना  leaves him  broke   .
the  series was renewed by ABC Family for  a  second season  of   पंद्रह  episodes  ,  which began airing on  may  30 , 2012 and  ended   on  August  29  ,  2012  .
मेलिसा  &  जॉय  ranks  as  cable TV 's #  1  telecast at 8  o'clock  across target audiences 18–34 , 18–49 and 12–34 demographics  .
On  अगस्त   17  , 2012  ,   एबीसी  Family  नवीनीकृत   मेलिसा  & Joey for a  तीसरा   ऋतु  , set to  प्रीमियर  in  वसन्त   2013   .
The  धर्मं  wheel  ,  often  प्रयुक्त   to  represent  the  Noble Eightfold Path
The Noble Eightfold  पाथ  ( , ) is  एक  of  the   प्रिंसिपल   शिक्षाओं   of   the  Buddha , who  वर्णित   it  as the  रास्ता   अग्रणी   to   the  cessation  of  suffering (  dukkha   )  and  the   उपलब्धि  of  self-awakening  .
it  is used to develop  इनसाइट   into  the true nature of phenomena ( or  वास्तविकता   )  and  to   eradicate   लोभ   ,  hatred  ,   और   भ्रांति  .
The Noble Eightfold Path is the fourth of the Buddha 's  चार  Noble  सच्चाई  ; the first  तत्व   of  the Noble  eightfold  Path  is  , in turn , an understanding of the Four Noble  सच्चाई  .
It is also known as the  मध्य  Path  or  Middle Way .
सब  eight  तत्व  of the  पाथ  begin  साथ   the  word  ``  right  ''  ,  जिससे  translates the word samyañc (  in   संस्कृत  )  or  sammā  (  in Pāli ) .
These  denote   पूर्णता  , togetherness , and coherence , and can also suggest the senses of  ``  perfect  ''   or  `` ideal  ''  .
'Samma ' is also translated  as  ``  wholesome  ''  ,  `` wise  ''   और  `` skillful '' .
In  बौद्ध   प्रतीकवाद  , the  प्रतिष्ठित  Eightfold Path is often represented by  अर्थात्  of  the   धर्मं  wheel  (  dharmachakra )  ,  whose eight  तीलियां  represent the eight  तत्व  of the path .
The  ग्रैमी  Award  लिये  Song of the  साल  is  an  honor presented  at  the Grammy  पुरस्कार  , a ceremony  कि   थी   स्थापित  in 1958 and  originally  called the  gramophone   पुरस्कार  .
पुरस्कार  in several categories are distributed annually  by  the National Academy  of  Recording Arts and Sciences of  the  United  राज्य  to `` honor  कलाकारी  achievement ,  तकनीकी   proficiency   और  overall excellence in the recording industry , without regard  to  album sales or  चार्ट   स्थिति  .  ''
Economics  is  the social science that  analyzes  the production , distribution , and consumption of goods  और   सेवाएं   .
The  पद  economics comes from the Ancient Greek ( '  ,   ``  management  of   a  household , administration '' ) from  (  ' , ``  हाउस  '' ) + ( '  ,   ``  custom '' or ``  विधि  '' ) , hence  ``   नियम  of  the  house ( hold  )  ''  .
राजनैतिक  economy  थी  the earlier name  लिये   the  subject , but economists in the late 19th century suggested `` economics ''  as  a shorter term for `` economic science ''  कि  also  avoided   a  narrow political-interest  connotation  and as similar  in   रूप  to  ``  mathematics `` , ``  आचार   ''  , and so forth  .
A focus of  the  subject  is  how economic agents behave or  interact  and how economies work .
Consistent with this , a  प्राथमिक  textbook distinction is between microeconomics and macroeconomics .
Microeconomics examines  the   बर्ताव  of basic elements  in  the economy , including individual  एजेंटों  ( such as households and firms or as buyers  और  sellers ) and  बाज़ार  ,  और  their interactions  .
macroeconomics  analyzes  the   संपूर्ण   अर्थव्यवस्था  and  मुद्दे   affecting  it , including unemployment , inflation , economic  विकास  ,  और   मौद्रिक  and fiscal policy  .
Other broad distinctions include those between positive economics ( describing ``  कया  is '' ) and  normative  economics ( advocating  ``   कया  ought  to  be '' )  ;  between economic theory and applied economics ; between rational and behavioral economics ;  और   between   मुख्यधारा   अर्थशास्त्र  ( more `` orthodox ''  और   dealing  with  the  `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus  ''  )  और   शास्त  economics ( more `` radical  ''  and dealing with the  ``   institutions-history-social  structure  नेक्सस   ''   )  .
Economic analysis  may  be  लागू   throughout  society ,  as   in  business  ,  finance , health care , and  सरकारी  , but also to such  विविध  subjects as crime , education , the  परिवार   ,  law , politics ,  धर्म   ,  social  संस्थानों  ,  युद्ध  , and  विज्ञान  .
At the turn  of  the 21st century , the  expanding  domain of economics in  the  social  sciences   रै  been described  as   आर्थिक  imperialism  .
An increasing  क्रमांक  of economists have called for  increased  emphasis on environmental sustainability ;  इस  area  of  research  is  known as  ecological  economics .
This is a list  of   अनुसूची  IV drugs under the  नियंत्रित  Substances Act  लिये  the  संयुक्त  States .
जरूरी   निष्कर्षों  for drugs to be  लगाई   in   इस  schedule:
The drug or other  पदार्थ  has a low  संभावित   लिये   गाली  relative to  the  drugs  or  other substances in  अनुसूची   iii   .
the  drug or other substance  रै  a  फिलहाल  accepted medical use in  उपचार  in the United  राज्य   .
गाली  of the drug or other substance  may  lead to  सीमित  physical dependence  or  psychological dependence relative to  the  drugs or other substances in schedule  iii  .
The complete list  of   अनुसूची  IV drugs are as follows .
the   प्रशासनिक  Controlled  substances   कोड  Number for each  ड्रग  is  शामिल  .
US  काउंटी  household  मध्य   आय  2009  .
Median US  household  income ,  2001-2011
household  income  is  a measure commonly  प्रयुक्त   by   the   संयुक्त  States government and private institutions  .
प्रत्येक  household  is   measured  by  the  income of every resident over  the  age  of   15  .
Income includes wages and salaries , unemployment  बीमे  ,  विकलांगता  payments , child support  भुगतान  received  ,   नियमित   rental  receipts , as  खूब  as any  निजी   कारोबार  ,  निवेश  , or other  kinds  of income  प्राप्त   routinely  .
While inflation-adjusted (  ``   रियल   ''  ) household income had been increasing  लगभग  every year from 1945 to 1999 , it has since been flat and even decreased recently  .
U.S. median  household  income fell from $ 51,144 in  2010  to  $  50,502 in 2011 .
चरम  poverty in the United States , meaning households  जीना  on  कम  than $ 2  प्रति  day before government benefits , doubled  इससे  1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011  ,  including 2.8  लाख  children .
the   निवासियों  of the household  do  not have to be related to the  सिर  of the household for their earnings to be  माना  part  of  the  household  's income .
as  households  tend   to  share  a  similar economic context , the  उपयोग  of household  आय   remains  among the most widely  स्वीकृत   उपायों   of  income  .
That  the  size  of  a household  is  not commonly taken into  खाता   in  such measures  may   विकृत   कोई   विश्लेषण   of  fluctuations  भीतर   or  among the household  आय  categories  ,  and may render direct comparisons  between   quintiles  difficult  or  even impossible .
The lapse  रेट  is defined as  the   रेट  of  घटी  with  ऊँचाई   लिये   an   वायुमंडलीय  variable .
The variable involved  is  temperature  जबतक  specified otherwise  .
The  शब्दावली  arises from  the  word lapse in  the  sense  of  a decrease or  मनाही   .
While most often applied to Earth 's atmosphere  the  concept can  be   विस्तारित  to any gravitationally  समर्थित  ball of  गैस  .
Blue Mountain State is  an   अमरीकी  comedy series that  premiered  on Spike on January 11 ,  2010   .
The series producers  शामिल   क्रिस   romano   और   eric  Falconer ,  और   it   is   उत्पादित  by  lionsgate   टेलीविज़न   .
the  series  is  about a fictional  विश्वविद्यालयों   ,  Blue  पहाड़  State ,  और   इसके   फ़ुटबॉल  team  ,  ``  the  Mountain Goats  .  ''
It portrays  निश्चित   पहलुओं  of American  विश्वविद्यालयों  life ,  सहित  football , sex ,  binge   पीने   ,  drugs  ,  wild partying , and hazing  .
In February 2012 ,  it  was  reported  that Blue Mountain State would  नहीं   be  renewed for a fourth season .
In March  2013  , Ed  marinaro   stated  that  he  is working on a  ब्लू  Mountain  राज्य  film  .
Apple Inc.  ,  formerly Apple Computer , Inc. , is  an  American  बहुराष्ट्रीय  corporation headquartered in  cupertino  , California  कि  designs , develops , and sells consumer electronics , computer  तन्त्र  and personal  कंप्यूटर  .
इसके   best-known   हार्डवेयर   उत्पाद  are the Mac line  of  computers , the  ipod  music  खिलाड़ी  , the  iphone   स्मार्टफोन  ,  और   the  iPad tablet computer .
इसके   तन्त्र  includes the OS X and iOS operating systems , the iTunes media  ब्राउजर  , the Safari web browser ,  और  the iLife  और  iWork creativity and production  suites   .
The company was founded on April 1  ,  1976  ,  and incorporated  as   ठहराना   कंप्यूटर   ,  Inc. on January 3 , 1977  .
the  word ``  कंप्यूटर   ''   थी  removed from  इसके  name on January 9 , 2007 , reflecting its shifted  फ़ोकस  towards consumer  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  after  the   परिचय  of the iPhone  .
Apple is  the  world 's  second-largest  information technology company  by  revenue after Samsung  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  , and  the   संसार   's  third-largest mobile phone maker after Samsung and  नोकिया  .
Fortune magazine named  ठहराना  the most admired  कम्पनी   in  the  संयुक्त   राज्य  in 2008  ,  and  in   the  world  इससे  2008 to  2012  .
However  ,  the company has  प्राप्त  criticism for its contractors '  मजदूर  practices , and for Apple 's own environmental and business practices  .
, Apple maintains  394  retail  स्टोर्स  in fourteen countries as well as the  ऑनलाइन  Apple Store  और   itunes  Store .
It is the second-largest publicly  traded   निगम  in the  संसार  by market  capitalization  ,  साथ  an estimated value of US $  414   अरब  as of  जनवरी  2013 .
,  the   कम्पनी  had 72,800  स्थाई  full-time  कर्मचारी  and 3,300 temporary  full-time   कर्मचारी  worldwide  .
Its worldwide annual revenue  in   2012  totalled  $  156 billion  .
Section 8 housing in the South Bronx
खण्ड  8 of the Housing Act  of  1937  (   )  ,  प्रायः  simply known  as  Section  8   ,  as  repeatedly  amended , authorizes the payment of rental housing  सहायता   to  private landlords on  निमित्त  of approximately 3.1 million low-income households .
It operates through  अनेक  programs , the largest of which , the Housing Choice Voucher program  ,  pays a  विशाल  portion  of  the rents  और   उपयोगिताएँ  of  परिचय  2.1  लाख  households .
The  us  Department of Housing  और  Urban  विकास   manages  the Section 8 programs .
The  आवास  Choice Voucher Program  provides  ``  tenant-based  '' rental assistance , so  a  tenant can move  इससे   एक  unit of  at  least  न्यूनतम   आवास   विशेषता   to  another  .
It  भी   allows  individuals to apply their monthly  वाउचर   towards  the purchase  of  a home , with over $ 17  अरब  going towards such purchases each  साल   (  from ncsha.org  विश्लेषण  )  .
the  maximum  अनुमत  voucher is $ 2200  a  month .
Section 8 also authorizes a variety  of  ``  project-based  '' rental assistance  कार्यक्रम   ,  under which the owner reserves some  or   सब  of  the  units  in  a building for low-income  किरायेदारों  , in return for  a  Federal  सरकारी  guarantee to  मेक  up  the   अंतर  between  the  tenant  's   योगदान  and the rent for 1 cent in the owner 's contract with the government .
a  tenant who leaves a  subsidized  project  होगा  lose access to the project-based subsidy  .
The  संयुक्त  States Department of  आवास  and Urban Development and  संयुक्त   राज्य  Department  of  Veterans  अफेयर्स  have  a   खास  Section 8  कार्यक्रम   पुकारा  VASH ( Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing ) , or  hud-vash   ,  which gives out a certain  क्रमांक  of Section 8 vouchers to eligible homeless  और  otherwise  vulnerable  US armed  शक्तियां   दिग्गजों  .
Restaurants  categorized   by  type and information about  ये  different  प्रकार  .
U.S. Federal Reserve  टीप  in the mid-1990s
The history  of   the  United States dollar  कवर  more than 200 years  .
