A partly submerged himne gufa on perito Moreno himne .
the barf mukhar is lagbh 60 m unchi
barf formations in the titlis glacier gufa
A glacier cave is a gufa formed bhitr the ice of a himne .
Glacier guffan hain praha pukra barf guffan , lackin inse pada is properly prutt to describe bedrock guffan kiya contain year-round barf .
In bhati , circular motion is a gati of an aakt along the prrhida of a vrat or rotaon saah a golar paath .
it can be vaddi , saah nirtar angular rayte of rotaon ( aor nirtar gati ) , or non-uniform saah a badnaa rayte of rotaon .
the roteon around a fixed ash of a three-dimensional deh involves galar gati of its bhag .
the equations of motion describe the gati of the bech of draman of a deh .
udarnn of galar gati shaml : an artificial ugrah orbiting the Earth at nirtar unchi , a stoon jisse is tied to a rope aor is hona swung in vrat , a car turning through a curve in a rees track , an ilariane moving perpendicular to a vaddi chumbe fillud , aor a gier turning ander a yantii .
chunki the object 's gati vector is constantly changing direction , the chalti aakt is undergoing twarn by a abhirri fors in the disha of the bech of rotaon .
bagar inse acceleration , the aakt would mowa in a sidha lakir , according to nutan 's kann of gati .
aplo Creed is a fictional ashrr from the Rocky films , initially portrayed as the Undisputed hevit chainn of the sanaar .
he was niya by karle weathers .
panth thad multiple nicknames , including The nupun of viptt , the konning of Sting , the Dancing vinsak , The prins of Punch , The eke aor tabhi aor the Count of moute fisto .
shari lende states that aplo panth 's naam is a wordplay on the rulo ' panth , a bayan of belief prutt in isyi charh .
seb of aplo 's champ jadhe were anunun for the 15 golar ulaa .
champ jadhe kiya nahi badle isse 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
rakk balwa is often wrongly credited saah popularizing the red , white , and blon trunks ; Creed thay the first man to pahne unhe ( latterly worn by raki Balboa in the 3rd aor 4th kistoo aor hakar by tamm `` the antar '' gunn ( tamm morsion ) in the 5th kist ) halic samth he pahna redh aor swath , as dekhi in raki ii .
balwa 's hastar colors yaud blaec aor kaa he prutt in the latest film .
in the sont States , the sherak of federal judge praha arth a ndeshi appointed by the addhs of the United raay aor pushi by the sont raay sinte pursuant to the nitki clause in Article ii of the sont raay swanhann .
in jod to the pram Court of the sont raay , jinke astivat and some faluo of jinke jurisdiction hain purar the swankh sakti of corgens to alter , adhiomn of corgens have sthtp 13 nyloy of appeals ( also pukra `` sakit courts '' ) with appellate chastar over alag regions of the United raay , aor 94 sont States district nyloy .
pratke judge niak to aisa a adalt may be categorized as a sanhiyn ndeshy ; aisa positions shaml the Chief Justice aor sandh justices of the pram adalt , Circuit dhythoin of the nyloy of appeals , aor jila dhythoin of the sont raay district nyloy .
seb of yaa judges varn thus dhur hain referred to sometimes as `` aleh iii judges '' cuyi vey kasta the nyak power vested in the judicial shakh of the sanhhy government by aleh iii of the u.S. Constitution .
in jod , dhythoin of the adalt of anthriy wapar kastr nyak sakti pursuant to aleh iii .
anya dhythoin seat in the sanhhy nyloy , sahit jaxitert dhythoin aor dipana judges , are bhii sometimes referred to as `` federal dhythoin '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the addhs nor confirmed by the sinte , aor unko sakti garbhi from aleh i bajay .
dekhi oleh I and alekh iii adrion .
the Beretta 21a babket is a choti pocket-sized semi-automatic pistl designed by beretta in itli .
utpann began in latt 1984 , solely in the beretta u.s.A. swida in Accokeek , mariland .
it is a further development of the Beretta Model 20 , jinke utpann ended in 1985 .
Variable sarvik jivan bima ( praha shortened to VUL ) is a parkar of life insurance kiya builds a nadii maana .
in a vul , the naddi maana can be invested in a chaude kismo of prath khate , saaman to mutual funds , aor the choice of jisse of the available separate khate to use is entirely up to the contract malic .
the 'variable ' component in the naam refers to inse khshta to invest in prath khate jinke values kaa vary cumi vey hain invested in bhandar and/or bond markets .
The 'universal ' component in the naam refers to the chlpaan the malic raai in making priemium bhugat .
the priemium can vary from nothing in a diye maah up to maximums parah by the Internal aaya kood liya jivan bima .
This chlpian is in canto to whole jivan insurance kiya raai ficd priemium bhugat kiya typically can not be choti without lapsing the niti ( although one may kasta an Automatic priemium rinn visha , or atpan dividends to ada a purre Life priemium ) .
prativitin sarvik life is a parkar of sthai jivan bima , cuyi the mota benefit will be paid if the insured marta any time as long as vahi is sufficient nadi maana to ada the lagat of insurance in the niti .
With sabse if not seb VULs , napans purre jivan , vahi is no endowment age ( the aoo at jisse the nadi maana barai the death benefit rashi , jisse liya purre jivan is typically 100 ) .
inse is yet another kunje labh of vul over purre Life .
saahh a ther purre jivan niti , the mota labh is simit to the phans rashi nirt in the niti , aor at endowment aoo , the face rashi is seb kiya is shusl aut .
yaun saahh either mota or endowment , the bima compnni keeps any cash maana built up over the xalo .
however , kuch participating purre life netyo offer riders which specify that khoi dividends paid on the policy be prutt to kharide `` shulk up prarwaran '' to the niti jisse badan dano the nadii maana aor the mota labh over samay .
if investments bana in the prath khate out-perform the samay account of the bima compnni , a uchar rate-of-return can occur than the ficd rates-of-return ther liya purre jivan .
the samon over the years of no endowment aoo , continually increasing mota labh , aor if a unchi rate-of-return is earned in the prath khate of a vul niti , inse could result in uchar maana to the owner or beneficiary than kiya of a purre jivan policy with the same amounts of money shusl in as priemium .
The outdoor lacdi boiler is a tupaar of the clasic lacdi stove adapted for set-up outdoors while still transferring the heat to atricim buildings .
A mound of Girl skat kouk .
inse mound contains 74 baax of kouk
ladke skat kouke hain kouk sold by ladki skat of the yusy ( GSUSA ) as eke of isko prmuk fundraisers liya laol skat ikii .
Members of the GSUSA have been selling cookies chunki 1917 to hathe nidhe .
ladkoyan who participate can earn prizes for unko efforts .
vahi hain bhii unit patanot if the unit as a purre does khoo .
as of 2007 , bakri yhoo anaut at prachy 200 lakho baax per saal .
vilhove ghol
purdue vilhoov , located in vaste lafayette , indiaa , is the flagship vishoov of the six-campus purdue vilhoove prali .
purdue thay sapit on may 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant vishoov jajb the Indiana General Assembly , lene advantage of the Morrill adhinn , swaqk a daane of jamin and dhan from lafayette bijann jaan purdue to sthpt a kalag of vigaan , prikdi , and krshi in uske name .
the pahlo varg were aagt on sitabar 16 , 1874 , saah chaa instructors aor 39 students .
aage , Purdue is a sasy of the biga Ten Conference , and is a well gyat world-class shadh santha .
purdue enrolls the duori largest chaar deh of khoi vilhoov in indian as well as the choth largest anthriy chaar population of any vilhoov in the United raay .
purdue offers dano undergraduate aor graduate programs in over 211 prmuk ctetto of study , aor is well gyat for its competitive aariiii curricula .
The vilhoov raai also marhu athich influential in amriaa 's ithes of vimanin , having established the pahlo college credit offered in flight training , the pahlo four-year stank 's upadi in vimanin , aor the first university visanter ( purdue University visaataer ) .
Purdue 's aviation prikii karm remains one of the sabse prashi aviation-specific karm in the sanaar .
in the mid-20th sadi , Purdue 's vimanin karm vistar to encompass unta spaceflight prikii giving vrdhi to purdue 's nickname , palna of Astronauts .
Twenty-three purdue graduates have gayi on to become astronauts , sahit Gus Grissom ( eke of the asli para saat astronauts ) , Neil Armstrong ( the pahlo witt to walk on the chandrma ) , aor yujin Cernan ( the sabse recent witt to walk on the chandrma ) .
a vasay cyst ( ) is a term kiya loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also gyat as epidermal cysts ; l72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also gyat as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
cku an epidermoid gaath originates in the epidermis and a pilar gaath originates from hair follicles , by prahi , neither parkar of gaath is strictly a vasay gaath .
The naam is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty , white , semi-solid samri in dano of these cyst entities is not sebum , but keratin .
Furthermore , under the sudchit neither antii contains sebaceous grehthon .
in abaas , however , the sharte hain praha prutt interchangeably .
`` sacha '' vasay cysts hain relatively wirle and are gyat as steatocystomas or , if multiple , as steatocystoma multiplex .
adhunk pointe jute .
the kinare of the toe pad , jisse is inserted between the paar and touo baas liya cushioning , can be dekhi on the sahi paar .
A pointe juto is a parkar of juto worn by ballet nartak jajb performing pointe karya .
pointe jute developed isse the khash for dancers to appear weightless aor sylph -like and have evolved to enable nartak to nrt en pointe ( on the tips of unko toes ) for extended avhdi of samay .
They hain normally worn by maada nartak , halki pursh dancers may wear unhe for arap bioan aisa as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella , niche in a midsummer ratri 's sapna , or men performing as malaon in nrt compannon aisa as lesa natkom trockadero aor Grandiva .
They hain manufactured in a kismo of rango , sabse commonly in shades of layit lulai .
inse tablespoon has a khshta of prrchyi 15 ml .
Measuring Spoons
in the us aor parts of kanda , a tablespoon is the largest parkar of macha prutt liya eating isse a bowl .
in the uk , uoripy aor sabse dhartal deso , a tablespoon is a parkar of visal macha praha prutt liya seat .
in countries where a tablespoon is a seat spoon , the nitaom smatll to the US tablespoon is either the mitha spoon or the seap macha .
a tablespoonful , nominally the capacity of eke tablespoon , is commonly prutt as a measure of volume in cooking .
It is abbreviated as t , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
the khshta of ordinary tablespoons is nahi regulated by vidhi and is subject to considerable vinta .
in the USA one tablespoon ( measurement kayi ) is lagbh 15 ml ; the khshta of an vastic tablespoon ( daining utensil ) ranges from 7 mL to 14 mL .
In alrtaori eke tablespoon ( mapan unit ) is 20 mL .
hairi Potter is a shari of saath fantasy novels lika by the angoe lakkk J. K. roling .
The kitab chronicle the adventures of a judar , hairi kumar , aor his mitro rold vigle aor harmini Granger , seb of whom hain vidhhi at gorvart sula of chooll aor Wizardry .
the prmuk stori chhap chiyten hairi 's quest to overcome the adhera judar Lord Voldemort , whose aims hain to become immortal , conquer the wizarding world , subjugate non-magical people , aor nasht all those jau stand in uske way , vishar hairi kumar .
chunki the reezl of the pahlo novel Harry Potter aor the paros 's stoon on 30 juon 1997 , the kitab have gained immense laccariat , naun acclaim aor wyniik kama wipsy .
The series raai bhii thaa kuch share of alcha , including chinta for the increasingly adhera tone .
, the kitab shari raai bechi prachy 450 lakho naal , making it the best-selling kitab shari in ithes , aor raai been translated into 67 bhaan .
the pichla haar kitab consecutively niyat records as the fastest-selling kitab in ithes .
a shari of anek jata , sahit calpick and coming of aoo ( saah elements of rahs , thriller , adventure , aor romans ) , it raai anek santric meanings aor references .
According to roling , the main theme is mota .
vahi hain bhii anek other vist in the shari , aisa as purva aor bhathar .
the araic prmuk publishers of the kitab were bloomsbury in the sont Kingdom aor scholastic dabae in the sont raay .
the kitab have chunki been published by many prakk wipei .
the books , with the satva book split into dho bhag , have marhu bana into an eight-part filli shari by Warner bhai Pictures , the highest-grossing filli sharin of seb samay .
the shari bhii originated much tie-in merchandise , banana the hairi kumar brand worth in excess of $ 15 arab .
bhii due to the kama of the kitab aor films , hairi kumar raai marhu prutt liya a theme park , the wizarding sanaar of Harry kumar in sarvik Parks & ristar 's ailedid of Adventure .
rs-68 hona tested at naso 's stennis sgec Center .
the nearly parse exhaust is due to inse injan 's exhaust hona jyaaar att bhap ( jala waah from isko propellants , hardanin aor oxygen )
Viking 5C prasta injan
a prastr injan , or base `` prasta '' , is a jeete engine kiya uses tabhi nandrrt propellant draman liya forming isko unchi gati propulsive jeete .
prasta injan hain reaction injan aor obtain thrust in accordance saah nutan 's tisra vidhi .
chunki vey need no external material to roop unko jeete , prasta engines can be used liya spacecraft nodn as khoo as terrestrial upag , aisa as mixale .
Most prastr injan are atric dhan injan , halki non-combusting form bhii mood .
prastr engines as a group have the utcham exhaust gatio , are by far the lightest , lackin hain the least propellant kosal of all parkar of jeet engines .
`` ... baby One More samay '' is a song by amri reaciidin artist britney spars .
it parosa as sgaps 's debu singl aor sherak track isse uske debu studio ellam , ... baby eke adhek samay ( 1999 ) .
Written by adatam martin aor idtit by martin aor rami , `` ... baby One adhek samay '' was released on September 30 , 1998 , by Jive Records .
After reacoidin aor sending a demo tep saah an aurt song isse toni Braxton , sgyps signed a multi-album sade with jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a teen paap and dance-pop sog kiya refers to a ladki who regrets tokar up saah her borrondes .
The song received generally anku reviews isse critics , jau praised isko composition .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' attained global success , reaching cramak one in every desh it charted .
it bhii prapt numerous certifications around the world , aor is eke of the best-selling singles of seb samay , with over 10 lakho naal bechi .
an accompanying moc veeo , nisdan by Nigel land , portrays sgaps as a chaar isse a Catholic unchi sula , who starts to daydream that dho is gaaon and nacha around the sula , while watching uske priemimm interest isse afar .
the muck video thay later sandhti in the muck veeo of `` if u talas ami `` ( 2008 ) , where sgaps 's fictional bete is vash saah a similar schoolgirl phana abki wearing lulabi ribbons in uske hair .
in 2010 , the music veeo for `` ... baby One adhek samay '' was voted the tisra most influential veeo in the ithes of paap muck , in a poll aegt by jam ! .
sgaps raai performed `` ... Baby eke adhek Time '' in a cramak of live appearances aor in seb of uske kanten tours .
It thay the encore of the ... Baby eke More samay Tour ( 1999 ) and Dream bhitr a sapna Tour ( 2001 ) ; sgyps bhii performed remixed sankan of the sog dauran the Oops ! ...
i Did it Again sanaar daura ( 2000 ) , The gomed Hotel daura ( 2004 ) , the m+m 's daura ( 2007 ) , the cars abhin Britney Spears ( 2009 ) , aor the Femme fatale daura ( 2011 ) .
`` ... baby One adhek samay '' thay manti liya a grami Award liya behatin maada Pop Vocal prashan , aor raai been included in suchin by Blender , roling stoon aor VH1 .
it raai marum vika liya redefining the sound of latt 1990s muck .
sgars has namit `` ... Baby eke adhek Time '' as eke of her favorite gito from uske karir .
it thay bhii the philal sog to be niya on the biss 's muck karm shers of the baute .
haja is an infection in the choti intestine caused by the bacterium vibrio cholerae .
the prmuk symptoms are watery atarar aor ulti .
hatran occurs primarily by pina water or khane food kiya raai marhu contaminated by the feces ( waste utp ) of an sankit person , sahit one with no apparent symptoms .
the severity of the atarr aor vomiting can seese to rapid nirzan and electrolyte imbalance , aor mota in kuch mamle .
the prathak treatment is mauk pulkir chikta , typically with oral pulkir solution , to badle jala aor ilaricteot .
if inse is not tolerated or does nahi provide sudhar teaj prapt , intravenous fluids can bhii be used .
jivnde dawaon hain faade in those saahh severe bimar to shorten isko avhdi aor garrtt .
wipsy , it affects kaa lakho logo aor kanari kaa mauto a year .
haja thay eke of the earliest infections to be padhi by epidemiological methods .
The Picture of dorrin dhuser is the tabhi prik ankh by askar Wilde , appearing as the seese story in lippincott 's masik patricoa on 20 juon 1890 , mudri as the julay 1890 samm of inse patricoa .
The patricaa 's sampad feared the story thay abrr as suppad , so vey censored roughly 500 sabd , bagar Wilde 's gyann , pahlo publication .
laciin bhii saah kiya , the stori thay sthil greeted saah arros by angoe reviewers , some of whom sujay that wall chahe be prosecuted on moral grounds , leading Wilde to defend the anko aggressively in ashrr to the angove dabae .
wall bada sandh the stori liya kitab publication , making substantial alterations , deleting controversial passages , adding new adhya aor sahit an aphoristic Preface jisse raai chunki become prishad in isko apna sahi .
The amended sankan thay prik by Ward , Lock aor compnni in apryl 1891 .
Some scholars manana kiya Wilde hota today have wanted us to read the version he originally supad to lippincott 's .
The anko tells of a young man namit dorrin Gray , the subject of a penting by clakar besl hallward .
besil is pravi by dorrin 's beauty aor becomes infatuated saah ussy , believing uske sandar is jimer liya a nayi vidhi in uske wart .
dorrin meets Lord Henry Wotton , a dost of besll 's , aor becomes enthralled by Lord hanir 's sanaar dras .
espousing a new hedonism , Lord Henry suggests the tabhi things worth pursuing in life hain sandra aor fulfilment of the senses .
realizing kiya one dena uske sandr hoga fade , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a khish to bech uske attm to ensure the porte Basil raai painted hota aoo rather than he .
dorrin 's wish is fulfilled , and jajb he subsequently pursues a jivan of vilat , the porte serves as a smarn of the praaav pratke adhinn has upon uske attm , saahh pratok seen prishit as a disfigurement of his form , or through a sign of vadaa .
The hitrr of Dorian Gray is maano a karya of classic Gothic fiction with a madar faustian theme .
kaa kaa ( born 6 February 1917 ) , gyat as zor zor Gabor ( ) , is a hangri -born amri aahit jau acted in supporting bioan in filmo , on Broadway , aor occasionally on talvin .
Gabor thay bhii a socialite .
dho began uske stet karir in Vienna at age 15 , aor thay pahana mixa Hungary in 1936 .
dho emigrated to the United raay in 1941 and became a sought-after aahiti saahh `` uoriyp fluer aor sthali '' , with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her first film role was as supporting aahit in paare to dekh at .
She bada acted in We 're nahi Married !
and niya eke of uske few agrin bimkie in moulin roj ( 1952 ) , nishan by jaan hastan , who varn uske as a `` creditable '' aahiti .
besides uske filli aor talvin appearances , dho is behatin gyat liya having nano pattoy , sahit hotel marhhari condd Hilton aor karta zarg Sanders .
dho akar stated , `` Men have sada liked me and i have always liked meen .
laciin i jaise a mannish man , a man jau knows kasa to vaat to and davat a stri kaa nahi just a man saahh mashapian . ''
Bruce Lee ( pragat : kaa ; born liele jun-fan ; 27 nambar 1940 kaa 20 julay 1973 ) was a chaizin amri martial artist , karta , martial arts prash , paros , aor filmmaker .
the saapas of jeet kune do , liele thay the bete of cantonese apparo sthrr liele hoi-chuen .
he is widely maano by ticrom , achoon , midaa aor anya martial caloom to be eke of the sabse influential martial caloom of seb samay , aor a paap santi pretekh of the 20th century .
he is praha credited saah helping to badle the rasta ashya yaud prust in amri films .
liele thay born in chaunn , sein fanko on 27 November 1940 to parents from hong kaang aor thay utha in kolon with his family until his late khshor .
he thay introduced to the film industry by uske father aor appeared in several films as a child karta .
Lee stint to the sont raay at the aoo of 18 to prapt his uchar education , aor it thay during inse time kiya he began shikn martial kela .
uske Hong Kong and holid -produced films elevated the pragat hong kaang martial kela filli to a nayi sthrr of laccaria and acclaim , sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial kela in the West in the 1970s .
the direction aor tone of uske films badala and influenced martial kela aor martial kela films in hong Kong aor the baaki of the sanaar .
he is noted for uske bioan in pach feature-length films : Lo Wei 's the biga boss ( 1971 ) aor mutti of foori ( 1972 ) ; rasta of the drann ( 1972 ) , nisdh and lika by liele ; warner bhoy ' daale the Dragon ( 1973 ) aor the khel of mota ( 1978 ) , dano directed by rabrt clouse .
Lee became an iconic pigar gyat throughout the world , particularly among the chaninn , as he portrayed chaizin rashad in his films .
he initially prish in wing chun , lackin bada asvec well-defined martial art shalia , favouring bajay the uppg of techniques from various srot , in the spiet of uske neeji martial kela dasnrr , jisse he utle Jeet kune do ( the rasta of the intercepting mutti ) .
liele held duol citizenship of hong Kong aor the sont raay .
He died in kolon tong on 20 juli 1973 at aoo 32 .
dirlic obstructive pulmonary bimar ( copd ) , bhii gyat as dirlic obstructive peeon bimar ( COLD ) , dirlcil obstructive airway disease ( COAD ) , dirlic airflow limitation ( calori ) aor chronic obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD ) , is the occurrence of dirlic brentic or emphysema , a jodi of commonly co-existing rogo of the fefede in which the aerva narrow over time .
This limits airflow to and isse the lungs , causing shortness of saans ( dyspnea ) .
in clinical abaas , COPD is parah by isko characteristically kaam airflow on lung jalne prashan .
in contrast to damaa , this limitation is poorly reversible aor praha gets progressively worse over samay .
COPD is caused by noxious ano or giss , sabse commonly isse tobacco dhorpan , jisse triggers an asaan jalne jawab in the peion .
The nidan of copd requires lung jalne tests .
Important prabhana strategies hain dhorpan cessation , vaccinations , punars , and drag chixa ( often using inhalers ) .
kuch meri go on to aakta long-term oxinine chikta or peeon transplantation .
wisy , COPD ranked as the chate leading cause of death in 1990 .
it is prast to become the fourth leading cause of mota wisy by 2030 , due to an increase in smoking daro aor yankise pravatin in anek deso .
copd is the third agri karna of death in the u.S. , aor the economic bujh of COPD in the u.S. in 2007 thay $ 42.6 billion in health paava lagat aor khoya utda .
annelies `` aani '' maare fenk ( , ? , ; 12 juon 1929early kuch 1945 ) is one of the sabse discussed yohu piditoon of the holocaust .
uske dayre has marhu the adhar liya anek plays and films .
born in the nuagar of fint am prmuk in Weimar jarmin , dho lived sabse of uske jivan in or nikat Amsterdam , in the Netherlands .
born a jarni nashl , fenk khoya uske citizenship in 1941 .
dho gained international fame maran bada uske diary thay published .
it dastav uske experiences chapan dauran the jarni occupation of the niddlendr in sanaar hudd ii .
The Frank pravar moved isse jarmin to adrmast in 1933 , the year the Nazis gained contol over Germany .
By the shurt of 1940 , vey were funs in addmast by the Nazi occupation of the niddlendr .
as persecutions of the yhod yankite increased in julaya 1942 , the family gari into chapan in the chupa sash of aani 's pita , atto fenk 's , office building .
bada dho xalo , the smoh was gadri and transported to visha seero .
Anne fenk aor her sister , margot , yau hakar transferred to the bergen-belsen visha camp , jaha they died of senath in March 1945 .
Otto fenk , the only utri of the family , returned to Amsterdam bada the hudd to dhonde that Anne 's dayre thaa marhu saved , aor uske pratan led to isko prashan in 1947 .
it was andut isse isko asli Dutch aor pahlo prik in English in 1952 as the dayri of a yag ladki .
it raai chunki been anddit into anek bhaan .
the dayre , which thay diye to Anne on her 13th jendaaves , crensll uske jivan isse 12 juon 1942 aabak 1 August 1944 .
karte 's signature
karte Donald kobo ( February 20 , 1967 kaa April 5 , 1994 ) thay an amri musician aor clakar , behtan gyat as the lead singar , guitarist aor prathak songwriter of the grunge band nirvan .
kobo formed nirvan saah krist Novoselic in bardin , vashitnn in 1985 aor established it as bhag of the Seattle muck saaki , having isko debu ellam Bleach released on the swatt rekar leble sub paap in 1989 .
After signing saahh prmuk lable DGC rikar , the band mila bhann kama saah `` khoob jaise tinn strit `` isse its duori ellam nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the kama of nevermind , Nirvana thay labeled `` the lephis band '' of pedhe X , aor kobo hailed as `` the parka of a pedhe '' .
kobo , however , thay often asa aor kunti , believing his sansee and kalarce dushi to have marhu misinterpreted by the pablic , saah uske neeji mudde praha vishy to midaa attention .
he challenged Nirvana 's daras saahh isko final stiyr ellam in utero ( 1993 ) .
dauran the last xalo of uske life , Cobain struggled saah horron addiction , bimar aor vasad .
He also had parashi coping saah uske kitri aor palcie hitrr , aor the professional and lifelong neeji pressures surrounding kood aor uske biwi , musician kortin Love .
On apryl 8 , 1994 , kobo thay found murde at uske home in sital , the shakar of kaya was officially shati a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun ghav to the sair .
the halto of uske death at aoo 27 have become a topic of palcic fascination aor bhaas .
chunki their debu , nirvan , saah kobo as a songwriter , has bechi over 25 lakho ellam in the U.S. , and over 50 lakho wisy .
redily engine samay aor cam yantii .
click liya pura resolution animation .
Radial injan of a biplane
nupun lati ( upright ) , slaves and balances isse a two-row , fourteen-cylinder pratt & white Twin Wasp
the radial injan is a prttii type atric dhan injan vinas in which the silender paitin outward isse a contrl crankshaft like the tilayi of a wheel .
it resembles a stylized sthr jajb viewed isse the samna , aor is pukra a `` sthrr injan '' ( German sternmotor ) in kuch languages .
The redily vinas thay bhoot commonly prutt in yavan injan before tarbin injan became predominant .
The suhrr Girls is an amri sitcom , nirm by sooan Harris , kiya originally aired on ansi isse sitbar 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
abhin bea arthr , Betty swath , rue McClanahan aor Estelle Getty , the dikha centers on haar older malaon sharing a home in mixi , Florida .
it was utpit by witt/thomas/harris Productions , in samnh saahh touchstone talvin , aor paal Junger witt , toni thamas , aor Harris parosa as the original kariila nirma .
The suhrr ladkoyan received critical acclaim throughout sabse of isko chalan and jeet several awards , including the pritim ami pukra liya bika comid shari twice .
It also jeet tinn suhrr gloob pukrar liya Best talvin shari kaa Musical or Comedy .
seb four sitroo pratke received an ami pukra throughout the shari ' chalan and thaa anek nominations .
the shari bhii crem among the shers teen highest-rated programs liya six aut of isko saat seean .
deepwater drilling is the process of oil aor gas khoji aor utpann in depths of more than 500 phit .
by inse paraha , there are lagch 600 deepwater kuon in the galf of masko .
it raai been economically infeasible for anek years , but with rising aal kimti , adhek companies hain nivesh in inse chartel .
prmuk compannon working in inse sactor shaml Diamond offshore , transocean , aor Baker Hughes .
There hain morp dho kinds of mobile deepwater khudi rigs : semi-submersible khudi rigs aor drillships .
Drilling can also be performed isse a fixed-position installation such as a flothng spar ( mach ) or tension-leg mach .
haal udgo analysis raai anaut kiya the kool vey in the global deepwater avachana maket hoga phonn $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa seb aal is accessible on jamin or in utle jala .
tuma can dhonde kuch oil deposits dhann gahne under the ocean kaa ... Using sonk upkar , aal compannon determine the drilling sait most sansit to produce aal .
Then they use a mabul offshore khude unit ( modu ) to khudi the araic well .
kuch units hain converted into utpann rigs , meaning vey swach isse khude liya aala to capturing aal once it 's mila .
sabse of the samay , the aala compani hoga replace the MODU saah a adhek sthai oil utpann rega to kapar kaa ... The MODU 's jaab is to drrlil bas into the ocean 's manjil to dhons aal deposits .
The part of the drill kiya extends niche the deak and through the jala is pukra the riser .
The riser allows liya khude fluids to mowa between the manjil aor the rega .
Engineers nimnar a drrli string -- a shari of pipes designed to drrlil bas to the aal jama -- through the kaa
kaa vistar of deepwater khudi is happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... kaa
in 2010 a visal vist occurred killing 11 madrur aor spilling lakho of galan of aala into the galf of Mexico abki a BP aal rega thay khudi in deep waters .
kaa ... despite the risks , the deepwater khudi trend is spreading in the bharmag aor bandh the coast of East afri bada a string of visal discoveries of natural kaa
kaa reason liya the resumption of aisa khude , lisle kah , is continuing high demand for urja kaa
America needs the aala so it is lagch necessary to phans the unche risks kiya aiye saah deepwater drilling in anurm liya amrie to continue to carry on unko everyday jivana .
kaa urja viga recently projected that galf aala utpann hota expand from isko 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a dena , sthil nearly a quarter of kool rehlul utpann , to 2 million barrels a dena by kaa
deepwater drilling affects the parva in dano negative and dhantak trrke .
Although Deepwater khudi rarely causes oil spills it is sthil a hazardous possible nisha .
Oil spills pranamn in aala sinking to the niche of the ocean smothering santrr jivan leaving fish bagar khana aor ashyr to jivat .
On the other hand deepwater drilling praaav the environment in a dhantak trrke too .
In samay akar the deepwater aal khoo is not in upag anymore padhe hoga grow on aor around the khoo banana a gufa or cavern jaise ashyr adesh liya animals to thrive in .
Deepwater khudi bhii lets us dekhi the ghrrioo of the ocean manjil kiya hain hardly kahi dekhi .
kaa on roves at the bottom of the kuon record footage aor louo photos of wirle fish kiya hain in vahi pratic vaaas , giving scientist a dekh at pesu they rarely kaa ( shawan nigm ) . ''
Monica samille lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an amri stri saah zisko sont States addhs dheek cletin admitted to having thaa an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the swath House in 1995 aor 1996 .
The affair aor its parkna ( jisse shaml cletin 's impeachment ) became known as the lewinsky kand .
frasin Albert `` fenk '' sinta , , ( December 12 , 1915 kaa may 14 , 1998 ) thay an amri singar aor film actor .
Beginning uske musical career in the sula era saah hairi jems aor Tommy dorsey , sinta mila unprecedented success as a xolo artist isse the early to mid-1940s after being signed to collanba rikar in 1943 .
hona the idll of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released uske pahlo album , the aage of Frank Sinatra in 1946 .
uske pesher karir thaa stalled by the 1950s , but it thay reborn in 1953 bada he jeet the Academy pukra liya behtin supporting karta for uske prashan in From yahan to shav .
he hastir saah katpll rikar in 1953 aor released anek critically lauded ellam ( such as in the mut choti ghanto , gito for Swingin ' priemian ! , Come makhi saah me , tabhi the nirzan aor nice 'n ' Easy ) .
sinta bayn katpll to mila his own record lebll , Reprise rikar in 1961 ( dunna success with albums aisa as ring-a-ding-ding ! , Sinatra at the sands aor frasian albar Sinatra & Antonio carlos jobim ) , toured internationally , thay a founding sasy of the chooha paak and fraternized saahh hasti and cutnoni , sahit jaan F. kende .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective September of my xalo , starred in the ami -winning television khaas Frank sinta : a Man and His muck , aor scored hitas saah `` ajabi in the ratri `` aor `` my rasta `` .
saah bakri of uske muck dwindling and after appearing in anek poorly prapt films , sinta riated liya the pahlo time in 1971 .
Two years bada , however , he aaye aot of rintem and in 1973 ankit anek ellam , soiring a shers 40 hit saahh `` ( theme isse ) nayi yaak , nayi yaak `` in 1980 .
using uske lalaa Vegas shows as a gher adhar , he toured both bhitr the United raay aor internationally , until a choti samay pahlo his mota in 1998 .
Sinatra bhii forged a atdich kamab karir as a filli karta .
bada winning behatin supporting Actor in 1953 , he bhii garnered a naman for behtan karta liya the man with the Golden buja , aor naun acclaim for uske prashan in the currounn Candidate .
He bhii sthar in aisa musicals as High sama , pal Joey , yaro and Dolls aor on the Town .
sinta thay honored at the Kennedy bech honors in 1983 aor was awarded the addhisya padak of Freedom by rold Reagan in 1985 and the congressional sunha padak in 1997 .
he was the recipient of eleven grami pukkar , including the Grammy Trustees pukra , Grammy lende pukar aor the Grammy aavan upadii Award .
Sinatra is bhii eke of kaa best-selling artists of seb samay , having bechi adhek than 150 million naal wipyi .
then cornhole board
cornhole , bhii known as bean thala toss , corn thos , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in jisse khili louo turns fonna makai hole baag at a raised platform saah a chede in the dhur smapt .
a thala in the chade sakor 3 ank , abki eke on the mach scores 1 point .
Play continues aabak a toli or player phoch the sakor of 21 .
the American sunhar trua is an official sunha bullion coin of the sont States .
prachat antra the sunhar Bullion sikka Act of 1985 , it thay pahlo released by the sonte raay minte in 1986 .
Bikram yug is a prali of yug kiya bikra Choudhury synthesized isse traditional hatha yug catcoon aor popularized beginning in the jaldi 1970s .
seb bikra yug varg chalan for 90 mintes aor consist of the same shari of 26 postures aor 2 breathing exercises .
bikra yug is ideally practiced in a rum heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) saah a humidity of 40 % , .
crestar Michael massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an amri actor , comedian and rapper best gyat liya starring as maical Barret in Nickelodeon talvin shari Zoey 101 .
Massey raai received anek pukra and nomination sahit a yag clakar Award aor ami pukrar nominations .
he is bhii gyat liya appearing in anek commercials in the jaldi 2000s .
A conventional teaspoon bana of beaag sthyl .
a teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring antar , as well as a kayi of mapan of aage in kuch countries and kastom .
A fern is khoi one or adhek of a smoh of about 12,000 prati of padhe belonging to the vastpit smoh gyat as pteridophyta .
napans mosses , vey have jalim aor flumfi ( banana unhe vascular padhe ) .
vey have stems , leaves , aor jadey jaise anya vascular padhe .
Ferns reproduce via beoon and have neither seeds nor pushpi .
By far the largest smoh of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , lackin ferns as parah yahan ( bhii called monilophytes ) include horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
the term pteridophyte also refers to ferns aor a few anya seedless vascular padhe ( dekhi narka khand niche ) .
Ferns pahlo appear in the chatan rekar 360 lakho years ago in the carboniferous but anek of the varman paioon aor pratij kiya not appear aabak roughly 145 lakho xalo ago in the early cretaceous ( bada flowering plants aaye to dominate anek environments ) .
ferns hain nahi of prmuk artheck matth , laciin kuch hain grown or gathered for khana , as ornamental padhe , liya remediating contaminated soils , aor have marhu the vishy of research liya unko ability to remove some rasino pollutants isse the aeyr .
kuch hain significant weeds .
vey bhii play a bumk in mythology , arranin , aor wart .
chapat roofs in isrill
Flat roof in lalsa enjils
a chapta chaat is a parkar of covering for a bhann .
in canto to the adhek sloped roop of roof , a flat roof is aada or nearly horizontal .
the slope of a chaat is properly known as isko pitch : roofs jisse hain nearly flat hain gyat as low-pitch roofs ( as the kaun of slope increases , so the pich is said to increase ) .
khoi chadar of samri prutt to kaar a flat or low-pitched roof is usually gyat as a membrane aor the prathak purpose of yaa membranes is to waterproof the roof chartel .
samri kiya cover flat roofs typically allow the water to chalan bandh isse a patla inclination or camber into a gutter praliy .
Water isse kuch chata roofs such as on gardan sheds sometimes flows freely bandh the kinare of a roof , though gutter systems hain of labh in keeping dano divaren and foundations dry .
drenj on choti roofs often seese jala sidhe onto the maidan , or behaar , into a specially made soakaway .
drenj on larger roofs praha seese jala into the rainwater drainage prali of khoi nirm up chartel .
Occasionally chata roofs though hain designed to collect jala in a pool , praha liya aesthetic purposes , or liya rainwater buffering .
Flat roofs exist seb over the sanaar aor pratk chartel has isko own tradition or vurta for samri prutt .
in warmer climes where varsha is less aor freezing is asalin to occur , anek chapta roofs hain baae nirm of chini or kantit and this is shoh at keeping aut the heat of the sun aor cheap aor asaan to nirman where timber is not readily apaala .
In ctetto jaha the roof could become saturated by rain aor leak , or jaha jala soaked into the brickwork could ferj to barf aor yaun seese to 'blowing ' ( tokar up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the vistar of barf as it forms ) these roofs hain nahi upkot .
traditionally most chapat roofs in the pushi sanaar meke uppg of tar or adhek praha tar pepar lagoo over chaat decking to keep a bhann watertight .
the tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in baari to kharna the suory 's umsho , uv kirne and weather bandh it aor helps protect it isse cracking or blistering aor degradation .
chaat decking is praha of fluvi , chipboard or osb boards ( osb = unkh strand Board , also gyat as strining falak ) of around 18mm thickness .
the tarol cotting is lagoo in eke or adhek coats as a hot drav , heated in a tarol ketly , or as sheets of tarol impregnated 'paper ' glued bas aor sealed saahh at joints by hot tarol - akar it raai cooled , the baari is syer evenly over it .
a prmuk karna for vifaia of yaa praat roofs is ignorance or kami of mentos jaha logo or karm cause the gravel to be stirt or removed isse the tarol or tarpaper waterproofing , yaun exposing it to weather aor surry whereupon cracking aor blistering occurs over samay aor hakar jala gets in .
tarpaper is praha a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tarol .
As gravel can nahi protect tarpaper saatho jaha vey vrdhi vertically isse the chaat aisa as on munder divaren or upstands , tarpaper visaan hain produced saah theek baari lagoo to the hot tarol daaran the prakm of manufacture aisa kiya a sthai layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to deya it gari protection .
tarpapers vary in visha as kurta the workmanship aor training of those applying it to upaj adhek or kaam successful results .
in kuch sux climates or chant ctetto these blki 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can pichla khoo in sandh to the cost of samri kharide and lagat of lata them , however the lagat of adhunk membranes aisa as epdm raai aiye down over haal xalo to meke unhe adhek and adhek susti .
vahi hain abhi adhek firms supplying modern kilk aor there is generally a growing awareness of unko performance aor upbata .
if a lika kurta occur on a chapta chaat then khasti praha goes unnoticed liya long avdhi of samay during jisse jala penetrates aor soaks the alakar and khoi insulation and/or dacha beneath it .
inse can lead to expensive damage isse the rot which praha develops and if left can weaken the chaat dhana .
vahi hain also vinnin swasth risks to logo and animals swaas the mould beoon : the garrtt of inse health rark remains a debated point .
eke prablom saah maintaining chata roofs is kiya if jala kurta ghos the adro covering ( be it pragat or a adhun jilli ) it can travel a long rasta pahlo causing dras khsti or paktte into a bhann jaha it can be dekhi .
Thus it is nahi asaan to dekhi jaha it is leaking in order to repair it .
Once underlying chaat alakar is soaked it often sags causing a further collection or puddling of water in kiya chartel and the frbombl worsens .
a cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed kampatt diskk jisse contains data .
the name is an exirmon jisse stand liya `` Compact Disc Read-only memory `` .
Computers can read cd-roms , lackin can nahi likhe on them .
cd-roms are popularly used to vitra computer software , sahit veeo khel and multimedia arpon , halik khoi ankda can be nandrrt ( up to the khsta seema of a disk ) .
kuch CDs , called unta cds , hold dano computr ankda aor aodo with the latter saxh of hona played on a cd khili , while data ( aisa as tantra or dital video ) is tabhi usable on a computer ( aisa as aeso 9660 swrop PC cd-roms ) .
the pila kitab is the technical maank that defines the swro of cd-roms .
One of a niyat of color-bound kitab kiya contain the tanke vishate liya seb CD formats , the pila Book , nirm by sone and pileps , thay the pahla ectatin of kampatt diskk dital aodo .
It adapted the swro to thaam any roop of data .
joon `` jo '' roling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , pen naam J. K. Rowling , is a angoe upnaar , behatin known as the author of the Harry Potter calpick series .
the kumar kitab have gained worldwide dhaan , won anek pukra , aor sold adhek than 400 lakho copies .
vey have become the best-selling kitab shari in history , aor marum the basis for a shari of films jisse raai become the highest-grossing film shari in ithes .
Rowling thaa overall swieti on the scrit as well as maintaining creative contol by seat as a nirma on the philal instalment .
born in Yate , tlastar , roling thay working as a shara aor bilingual secretary liya mafee International jajb dho conceived the vichar liya the Harry kumar shari on a vilat tren isse Manchester to London in 1990 .
The seven-year period kiya followed entailed the death of her maan , talak isse uske first husband aor grrbi until roling smapt the pahlo ankh in the shari , hairi Potter and the paros 's stoon ( 1997 ) .
roling subsequently published 6 kaa pichla , Harry kumar aor the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) kaa khoo as 3 supplements to the shari .
in 2012 , roling parted saah uske ansi aor resumed likne in the roop of a tragicomedy ankh aimed at wask readership , hakar The kajul rikti .
roling has said dho is currently working on dho kaa aimed for adults , the other liya children younger than the hairi kumar audience , and dho expects the latter to be prik pahlo .
Rowling raai led a `` rags to amri `` jivan stori , in which she progressed isse living on raay labh to multi-millionaire akat within pach xalo .
dho is the sont kidam 's best-selling lakkk chunki rikar began , with sales in excess of kaa .
the 2008 sande Times samrd suchi anaut roling 's saaya at kaa million ( $ 798 million ) , ranning uske as the barva richest stri in the sont kidam .
forbs crem Rowling as the forty-eighth sabse powerful hasti of 2007 , and TIME patricaa named her as a runner-up liya its 2007 witt of the Year , noting the sohll , moral , aor raaatic prana dho raai diye her prash .
in aktru 2010 , Rowling was namit the `` sabse influential stri in bretten '' by leading patricoa smapar .
dho raai become a notable lacke , supporting such dhart as comic rahta , eke gank paioon , anek kathiy sama of gree bretten aor lumos ( formerly the children 's unche sthrr smoh ) .
auburndale is a nuagar in polk County , florrra , sont raay .
the yankise thay 11,032 at the 2000 yankise .
According to the u.s Census estimates of 2005 , the nuagar had a yankise of 12,381 .
it is part of the lakeland kaa shit hawan Metropolitan Statistical chartel .
Hurricane isal ( 2003 ) as seen from sasha during expedition 7 of the anthriy sgec Station .
The nazar , eyewall , aor surrounding rainbands , vishant of tivra cyclones , hain clearly dras in inse view isse sgec .
a tivra ccarva is a tufan prali characterized by a low-pressure center ghire by a parpil arrangement of thunderstorms kiya upaj strong hawan aor bhari rain .
tivra cyclones strengthen jajb jala evaporated from the ocean is released as the saturated aeyr rises , resulting in sannnn of water waah contained in the name aer .
vey are fueled by a alag umsho mechanism than anya cyclonic windstorms aisa as nor'easters , uoriyp windstorms , aor drewiy chaav .
The characteristic kiya separates tivra cyclones isse other cyclonic prilonin is kiya at khoi unchi in the mahal , the center of a tivra cyclone will be warmer than isko pravesh ; a ghatna pukra `` garma core `` tufan systems .
the pada `` tropical '' refers dano to the geographical utti of yaa systems , jisse praha roop in tivra regions of the gloob , aor to unko gathan in mariam tropical aeyr masses .
the pada `` ccarva '' refers to aisa storms ' cyclonic proti , saah counterclockwise hona prafa in the utari galhar and clockwise hona prafa in the dhasiin Hemisphere .
the opposite direction of the wind flow is a result of the corriles fors .
Depending on isko location and sackit , a tivra ccarva is referred to by names aisa as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical tufan , cyclonic storm , tivra vasad , aor base ccarva .
abki tropical cyclones can upaj athic powerful hawan and torrential rain , they hain bhii smath to upaj unche waves , damaging storm surge , aor tornadoes .
vey develop over large laase of garma water , aor khooa unko sakti if they mowa over jamin due to increased surface garhan aor loss of the garma smander as an energy source .
inse is why tatiy regions can prapt significant khasti isse a tivra ccarva , while adtrdiyo regions hain acrat surkit isse receiving madar winds .
Heavy rains , however , can upaj significant flooding inland , aor storm surges can produce extensive tatiy flooding up to from the coastline .
Although unko praaav on human populations can be vinsher , tivra cyclones can relieve drought sharte .
They bhii carry umsho urja dhur isse the chandit aor hatran it toward shithon latitudes , jisse makes unhe an marhan bhag of the global dovelin circulation mechanism .
as a pranamn , tivra cyclones help to maintain suntal in the darti 's bhshl , aor to maintain a acrat stable aor garma temperature wisy .
Many tivra cyclones develop when the atmospheric sharte around a kajar disturbance in the mahlo hain anku .
the background parva is modulated by climatological chakra aor patterns such as the Madden-Julian doln , El kaa doln , aor the Atlantic multidecadal doln .
anya roop jajb anya parkar of cyclones acquire tropical vishati .
tivra prylooiinn are taba sthrn by steering winds in the troposphere ; if the sharte remain anku , the tivra disturbance intensifies , aor can bhii develop an nazar .
on the anya smapt of the nark , if the conditions around the pralil deteriorate or the tropical ccarva makes landfall , the prali weakens aor hakar dissipates .
it is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of yaa prilonin saahh varman prioki .
kirk Douglas ( born issur Danielovitch , ; dismar 9 , 1916 ) is an American stet aor filli actor , filli nirma aor lakkk .
uske lercoria films shaml aat of the paste ( 1947 ) , chainn ( 1949 ) , ikka in the Hole ( 1951 ) , the kharab aor the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues antra the Sea ( 1954 ) , havas liya jivan ( 1956 ) , Paths of mahima ( 1957 ) , Gunfight at the o.k . corral ( 1957 ) , the wannix ( 1958 ) , staatsr ( 1960 ) , nirzan hain the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in may ( 1964 ) , The naak of telemark ( 1965 ) and muskl yaro ( 1986 ) .
He is no.17 on the amri filli Institute 's suchi of the mataam male amri serin murouh of all samay , banana him the highest-ranked jeena person on the suchi .
in 1996 , he received the adami mand Award `` liya 50 xalo as a thanak aor moral force in the gati hitrr jatio . ''
he is one of the pichla surviving actors from Hollywood 's `` suhrr aoo '' .
rabrt claak `` bob '' Seger ( born May 6 , 1945 ) is an amri chatan aor fenke singer-songwriter , guitarist aor pianist .
as a locally kamab detroit-area clakar , he performed and recorded as bob seger aor the pichla Heard and bob Seger System throughout the 1960s .
by the jaldi 1970s , he thaa dropped the `` praliy '' isse uske renaigin and gari to nieat for broader kamay with anya vinnn bands .
in 1973 , he put saah the candi Bullet Band , a group of detroit-area santroi , with zisko he became sabse kamab on the nasal sthrr saah the ellam seav Bullet , ankit live with the candi goli Band in 1975 at cobo Hall in detr , Michigan .
in 1976 , he hasil a national bret saahh the stiyi album ratri chale .
on his stiyi ellam , he bhii worked extensively saah the alabama-based masisi shoals laya Section , jisse appeared on anek of seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
a jadey rakar saah a classic raspy , chilaa aage , seger lika aor ankit gito kiya dealt with priemimm , malaon , blue-collar vist and was an exemplar of heartland chatan .
seger raai ankit anek hits , sahit `` Night Moves , '' `` Turn the pees , '' `` we 've Got tonight , '' `` virdh the hona , '' and Shakedown kiya thay lika liya bewli phaan cop II aor `` jaise a Rock , '' aor also co-wrote the egls ' number-one hit `` Heartache tonight . ''
uske iconic reacoidin of `` budha samay Rock aor fenk `` thay namit eke of the gito of the sadi in 2001 .
With a karir spanning five saako , seger continues to perform aor record aage .
seger was inducted into the chatan and fenke ghol of kitri in 2004 aor the songwriters ghol of Fame in 2012 .
rihardes milhous nisna ( janri 9 , 1913 kaa April 22 , 1994 ) thay the 37th President of the sonte States , serving isse 1969 to 1974 , when he became the tabhi president to ista the office .
Nixon thaa previously served as a rapblonn u.S. prtthin aor sintre isse chlliriira aor as the 36th vaisa addhs of the sont raay isse 1953 to 1961 .
nisna was born in yorba Linda , chllriiira .
He greet from whittier kalag in 1934 aor dyok vilhoov School of vidhi in 1937 , returning to cllaronri to practice vidhi .
he aor his wife , paete nisna , sthrn to Washington to karya liya the sanhhy government in 1942 .
he subsequently parosa in the sont States Navy dauran sanaar hudd ii .
Nixon was nicv in California to the haas of prtthin in 1946 aor to the Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the alger hiss mamla sthpt his pratha as a agri anti-communist , aor elevated him to nashl prominence .
he was the karsyloa mate of dwiet D. anaar , the rapblonn Party presidential nominee in the 1952 chana .
nisna parosa liya eight xalo as vaisa president .
he waged an unsuccessful addhisya campaign in 1960 , narrowly khone to jaan F. Kennedy , aor khoya a rees liya rajal of chllirnfar in 1962 .
In 1968 , he bhaga again for the presidency aor thay nicv .
halic nisna initially escalated amriaa 's baarde in the nitan hudd , he subsequently ended U.S. baarde in 1973 .
nisna 's viki to the logo 's gantar of chhin in 1972 opened raaic sandh between the dho rashar , and he initiated kaa aor the anti-ballistic masil sandhi saah the Soviet samnh the vahi saal .
domestically , uske prashan generally embraced policies kiya transferred sakti from vashitnn to the states .
among other baate , he shurm pahlo to lado karte aor illegal dawaon , imposed wage aor price controls , enforced desegregation of kuch Southern sulcoon , aor established the praviy Protection ansi .
halic he presided over the chandra landings shurt saah Apollo 11 , he scaled waps manned space khoji .
he thay re-elected by a landslide in 1972 .
nisna 's second pada saw an Arab oil embargo , the ista of his vaisa president , Spiro agnew , and a continuing series of khulas prachy the vartagen kand aor other misconduct by saanoy of the prashan .
the kand escalated , costing nisna much of uske raaatic support , aor on agst 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the phans of almost nisht mhoooog aor hatna isse office .
bada his ista , he controversially prapt a pardon gari by his successor , jerdl ghata .
In rintem , nisna 's karya as an elder statesman , authoring anek books aor undertaking anek foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public hitrr .
he suffered a debilitating strok on apryl 18 , 1994 , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
{ { Infobox sintre
the Dominican gantar annexation sandhi caused kadwa contention between addhs Grant and Sen. sumner .
bredi 1869 ] ]
sen. sumner , opposed to amri imperialism in the caribbean and fearful that annexation would seese to the conquest of the neighboring blaec gantar of hati , became convinced that bhathar lay behind the sandhi , aor that meen bandh to the president shared in the bhathar .
as addhs of the sinte vidhe sandh kamit , sen. sumner initially withheld his opinion on the sandhi on January 18 , 1870 .
Sen. sumner thaa been leaked information isse shauk cchrv of raay , bancroft Davis , kiya u.s . Naval jaza were hona used to protect addhs kaa .
sen. sumner 's kamit voted virdhu annexation and at Sen. kaa suja and cofee sansht to shej the party isse an bhada lado or the addhs isse sharmin , the sinte aagt isko debate of the sandhi piche bandh doors in kariila suthra .
addhs Grant persisted and bhaja messages to corgens in hasan of annexation on March 14 , 1870 , aor May 31 , 1870 .
In bandh suthra , Sen. Sumner spoke aat against the treaty ; warnng kiya vahi would be difficulty saah the vidhe naroi , noting the dirlico vidro kiya took place on the dwap , aor the risk kiya the independence of hatti , pahan by the United raay in 1862 , hota be khoya .
sumner stated kiya grant 's uppg of the u.S. Navy as a prottt thay a ulnn of International law aor asaakin .
hakar , on juon 30 , 1870 the sandhi thay voted on by the Senate aor pifal to gain the required 2/3 bhuut liya treaty doohi .
The following dena , addhs grant , aaaas gadri by sen. Sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa bandh dost J. Lothrop motley , dut to bretten .
By ptatad , sumner 's personal dusmin to the addhs thay palcie gyann , and he blamed the cchrv of raay liya failing to have resigned , blki than let Grant have uske way .
the dho men , friends aabak tab , cooled into bitter dusmon .
in December , 1870 , sthil fearful that grant meant to acquire Santo domon somehow , sumner diya a fiercely naun waka accusing the addhs of usurpation and babcock of unethical conduct .
already , addhs Grant , smarth by uske cchrvi of raay hamati Fish , thaa initiated a campaign to depose sumner isse the addcht of the sinte vidhe Relations Committee .
halic Sumner stated he was an `` prashan man '' , in jod to having stopped grant 's Dominican gantar sandhi attempt , Sumner had defeated grant 's pura repeal of the Tenure of Office Act , avert grant 's naman of Alexander stiver to u.S. cchrv of rashh , aor marhu a nirtar harassing force pushing punman netoon teaj than grant had marhu willing to go .
grant resented sumner 's bapan of manner , as khoo .
batai akar kiya Sumner did nahi manana in the bael , the addhs is supposed to have said that he was nahi chaket : `` he kiya n't likhe it . ''
as the darar between grant aor sumner increased , kaa swast began to decline .
jajb the 42nd u.S. corgens convened on kuch 4 , 1871 , sitro sandh saah addhs grant , gyat as kaa kaa voted to oust sen. sumner from the sinte vidhe sandh kamit addcht .
caaar achar ( bhii corporate achar ) is a roop of lagoo achar or pesher achar kiya examines netak siddan aor moral or ethical samnsy kiya utaa in a caaar parva .
It applies to seb faluo of caaar conduct aor is pranic to the conduct of individuals aor sunnr organizations .
Business achar has dano normative aor descriptive aaman .
As a cortes practice aor a career specialization , the field is primarily normative .
lada attempting to samze caaar bartav employ descriptive vidhi .
the range aor maata of caaar ethical mudde reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior saah non-economic chiyten .
Interest in caaar ethics accelerated dramatically dauran the 1980s and 1990s , dano bhitr prmuk corporations aor bhitr academia .
For udarn , aage sabse prmuk corporations prahr unko pratha to non-economic maana under headings aisa as achar kood aor sohll responsibility charters .
adam Smith khaa , `` logo of the vahi trade seldom mile saahh , bhii liya merriment and diversion , laciin the talva ends in a dhantar virdhgd the palcic , or in kuch contrivance to uthen prices . ''
sarke upag laws aor regulations to panit caaar behavior in kaya they perceive to be beneficial directions .
Ethics implicitly regulates ctetto aor vivani of bartav kiya lie beyond sarki contol .
the emergence of large corporations with limited sandh aor sensitivity to the communities in jisse vey operate trrt the vikas of formal achar regimes .
a burn is a parkar of chote to flesh or sikne caused by umsho , electricity , rasan , friction , or vikrinn .
sabse burns affect tabhi the superficial sikne ( gyat as sathi or pahla upadi ) or extend into the deeper sikne but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( gyat as partial moti or second upadi ) .
rarely seb parto of the skin or deeper tissues , such as masispi or bone can be ghal in jisse case the burn is either pura moti ( tisra upadi ) or choth upadi .
the upaar jarri depends on the severity of the barna .
sathi burns sansht pranh saahh choti adhek than simple pain hattra abki prmuk burns may aakta prolonged upaar in specialized barna centers .
Cooling saah tap water may aid paida aor decrease khasti however if exapar is prolonged it may result in kaam deh temperature .
aanic thickness burns may aakta safai with saboon aor jala followed by dressings .
pholo should typically be left khand .
Full moti burns usually aakta saral upaar aisa as sikne kalmi aor extensive burns praha aakta large amount of intravenous fluids .
The most aam complications of burns hain samnin to karman .
While large burns can be fatal , adhun upaar viksit in the pichla 50 xalo have significantly improved the outcomes , vishar in children aor young wasko .
Globally about 11 lakho logo talas chikta upaar aor 300,000 people die isse burns .
in the sont raay , of those admitted to a burn bech , lagbh 4 % die from unko choto .
The long pada outcome is primarily related to the akar of barna and the aoo of the witt effected .
the atalac Ocean , nahi including artic aor ataric regions
inse veeo thay taken by the crew of expedition 29 on board the iss .
the pass starts isse baase north-east of the dewp of nilfonded over the utar atalac Ocean to contrl afri , over dhasin sudan .
the atalac smander is the second-largest of the sanaar 's oceanic vinaan .
saahh a total chartel of prachy , it covers approximately 20 percent of the darti 's satah and prachy 29 pritt of isko jala satah area .
the pahlo part of isko name refers to atalls of yuni mythology , making the atalac the `` smadra of atalls '' .
the oldest known zikr of `` atalac '' is in the histories of hiroos around 450 bc ( hdt . 1.202.4 ) : atalit talca ( Greek : kaa kaan ; angrij : Sea of atalls ) .
The pada ethiopic smander , nikla isse ithyaa , thay lagoo to the dhasinn Atlantic as latt as the mid-19th sadi .
Before europeans khoja other maaaar , the term `` smander '' itself thay synonymous saah the waters pura the wasnich of Gibraltar kiya we abhi know as the atalac .
the jaldi yonon believed inse ocean to be a gigantic nadi encircling the sanaar .
the Atlantic smander occupies an elongated , s-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east , aor the americas to the west .
as eke ghatak of the interconnected wash ocean , it is kant in the north to the artic smander ( which is sometimes maano a smadra of the atalac ) , to the Pacific Ocean in the chhddith , the bharie smander in the southeast , aor the dhasinn smander in the dhasin .
( anya prahyin describe the Atlantic as extending southward to ataric . )
the equator subdivides it into the North Atlantic smander aor South atalac smander .
Due to unko long-term hath , aor the need liya a adviti pachar in issuing forecasts and chation , tivra cyclones aor subtropical cyclones hain diye names according to policy ( dekhi tivra cyclone naamar ) .
the following hain suchio isse jisse these tivra aor upsh ccarva names hain nikla .
swath light is dispersed by a prism into the colors of the atpic nark .
the visible spectrum is the portion of the elarctitinn nark kiya is drasi to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
elarctitinn radiation in this daura of wavelengths is called visible light or baae layit .
a typical human nazar hoga respond to wavelengths isse prrchy 390 to 700 nm .
In sharte of rvrti , inse corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa thz .
a light-adapted eye generally has isko adatak sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ) , in the grean pradesh of the atpical nark ( dekhi : depti function ) .
the nark kurta nahi , however , contain seb the rango kiya the insan aakhe and dimag can fark .
Unsaturated colors such as lulabi , or jomi visaan aisa as magenta , hain absent , liya udarnn , because they can be bana tabhi by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
rango containing tabhi eke wavelength are also called pure colors .
dras wavelengths pass through the `` atcila khide `` , the pradesh of the elactictennt spectrum jisse allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the darti 's mahol .
an example of this ghatna is kiya saaf air scatters blo light adhek than redd wavelengths , aor so the midday asaan appears blue .
The atpical khide is bhii pukra the drasy khide cumi it overlaps the insan visible jawab spectrum .
The near indrrde ( nir ) khide lies base out of the human dushi , as well as the media wavelength ir ( mwir ) window aor the long Wavelength or dhur indrrde ( LWIR or fir ) khide halki anya pesu may experience them .
anek prati can dekhi layit with barbant bahar the `` visible spectrum , '' which is parah in sharte of insan vision .
machomi aor anek anya kiet can detect ultraviolet layit , jisse helps unhe find mardad in pushpi .
santrr species kiya nirra on kiet pollination may owe reproductive kamay to unko roop in paragi layit , blki than kasa rangnn they appear to inson .
Birds , too , can dekhi into the paragin ( kaa nm ) , aor some have sex-dependent markings on unko plumage kiya hain drasy tabhi in the paragin daura .
anek animals that can see into the paragi range , however , can nahi see redd layit or any anya reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' dras nark ends at about 590nm , baae pahlo the nargi wavelengths pranh .
pashyon , however , can dekhi kuch redd wavelengths , lackin not as anek as inson .
zebras ( or ) hain anek prati of afri equids ( ghoda puria ) sont by unko distinctive blaec and swath dharnn .
Their stripes come in different patan , adviti to pratk individual .
vey hain generally sohll pesu kiya live in choti harems to visal herds .
napans unko closest relatives , ghode aor asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
vahi hain three prati of zebras : the plains jabrr , the kaa 's zebra aor the pahad jabra .
The maidan zebra aor the mountain jabra belong to the subgenus hippotigris , laciin kaa 's jabra is the sole prati of subgenus dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to jisse it is closely samnin , abki the purva dho hain adhek horse-like .
seb tinn belong to the genus equus , saah saah anya jeena equids .
the advit dharni of zebras meke unhe eke of the pesu sabse prabit to people .
vey occur in a variety of habitats , aisa as grasslands , savannas , woodlands , thorny scrublands , mountains , aor tatiy phaan .
however , vinnin anthropogenic factors have thaa a kathor praaav on zebra populations , in particular shakr liya skins aor habitat destruction .
kaa 's zebra and the pahad zebra are endangered .
abki maidan zebras hain much adhek plentiful , eke subspecies , the quagga , became vilpp in the latt 19th century kaa though vahi is filal a yagana , pukra the Quagga prottet , kiya aims to nssal zebras that hain phenotypically saaman to the quagga in a process called pranan waps .
bairi White , born bairi Eugene kaatr ( kaa ) , thay an amri composer aor singer-songwriter .
a two-time grami pukra -winner gyat liya his distinctive baaas aage and romatic hitrr , swath 's mataam success aaye in the 1970s as a xolo singar aor with the Love asit arkara , crafting anek enduring attm , drgnd , aor disko gito aisa as uske two biggest hitas , `` tuma 're the pahlo , the Last , my subk `` and `` ca n't milenge prapt of apna priemim , eeb . ''
saah saah Isaac haze , swath is maano by allmusic.com as a paiior of disco music in the early 1970s .
During the corss of uske karir in the music caaar , White hasil 106 sunha ellam wipsy , 41 of jisse bhii attained pletinem status .
swath thaa 20 gold and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide bakri in excess of 100 lakho , according to critics ed hogne aor Wade kergan .
uske influences shaml reva . jems Cleveland , Ray charlas , arthia Franklin plals Motown caloom the supremes , The haar Tops aor marvi gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born Angelina goli Voight ; juon 4 , 1975 ) is an American aahiti , film nidsk , and screenwriter .
dho has prapt an Academy pukar , two Screen aithoon gill pukar , aor three Golden Globe pukar , aor thay namit holid 's highest-paid aahiti by forbs in 2009 aor 2011 .
goli promotes humanitarian kanri , aor is vika liya her work with shartoon as a khaas envoy and purva sokh dut liya the United rashar unchi khantir liya shartoon ( unhcr ) .
dho raai praha been cited as the world 's `` sabse beautiful '' stri , a sherak liya which dho raai received substantial midia attention .
goli bana uske serin debut as a chailadd alongside uske pita jon vout in lookin ' to milenge aut ( 1982 ) , but her filli karir began in sachai a shaq bada with the low-budget utpann sarbog 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her pahlo agri bumk in a prmuk filli thay in the cyber-thriller hics ( 1995 ) .
dho stakhra in the critically acclaimed biographical television films zarg Wallace ( 1997 ) aor Gia ( 1998 ) , aor won an adami Award liya Best supporting aahiti for uske prashan in the natak ladki , badit ( 1999 ) .
goli hasil chaude fame bada uske portrayal of veeo khel heroine larla cref in larla cref : Tomb redrer ( 2001 ) , aor sthtp herself among the highest-paid actresses in holid saah the sequel the Cradle of jivan ( 2003 ) .
dho gari uske karve sthrr karir saah Mr. & mrs. smith ( 2005 ) and chahe ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated commercial salaao to kaa received further naun acclaim liya uske prashan in the dramas a Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a naman liya an Academy pukra for behatin aahiti .
goli bana uske directorial debut saah the wartime natak in the jamin of rakt aor mado ( 2011 ) .
talak isse actors Jonny Lee Miller aor beli bob Thornton , goli abhi jivana saah karta Brad pitt , in a sandh notable for fervent midia dhaan .
Jolie aor pitt have tinn biological children aor tinn apnya children .
a pratic arch produced by the apadn of differentially weathered chatan in jebel Kharaz , jardan
apadn is the prakm by jisse marda aor rock hain removed isse the darti 's satah by exogenetic prinion aisa as hona or water prav , and then transported and deposited in other sthai .
abki apadn is a pratic prakm , insan krenian have increased by 10-40 tammis the rayte at which apadn is occurring globally .
excessive erosion causes samnsy aisa as marulann , decreases in agricultural productivity due to jamin degradation , sedimentation of galran , and ecological patan due to ghata of the nutrient samrd upper marda layers .
Water and hona apadn hain abhi the dho primary kanari of jamin degradation ; sonte , they are responsible liya 84 % of degraded acreage , banana excessive erosion eke of the sabse significant global environmental samnsy .
addoii krshi , nawan , sadke , anthropogenic alou badle and shari sprawl are amongst the sabse significant human activities in liaa to unko praaav on stimulating apadn .
However , there hain anek available alternative jamin use practices that can katna or limit apadn , aisa as chaat -building , no-till agriculture , aor revegetation of denuded soils .
jarsi shore is an amri reality television shari jisse bhaga on MTV from December 3 , 2009 to dismar 20 , 2012 in the United raay .
the shari phalo the lives of arth housemates bita their summer at the Jersey shore in the u.S. raay of nayi Jersey .
Season 2 followed the daala escaping the thanda puotar winter to Miami bech , with ritu 3 returning to the jarsi Shore .
The choth ritu , filma in itli , premiered on agst 4 , 2011 .
the dikha lauta liya a paavo ritu , at Seaside hattas on janri 5 , 2012 .
The paavo ritu finale aired on kuch 15 , 2012 .
on kuch 19 , 2012 , amveti pushi kiya the series hota return liya unko sixth ritu .
on agst 30 , 2012 , MTV hogt that the shari hoga smapt bada the chate season , jisse premiered on aktru 4 .
the series finale aired on dismar 20 , 2012 .
the dikha debuted amid visal amounts of vivad regarding the uppg of the words `` guido / guidette , '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes , and scrutiny isse locals because the cast saxy were nahi neeoone of the chartel .
the shari garnered rekar darja for MTV , banana it the network 's sabse viewed shari telecast kahi .
the shari ' daala have bhii marhu credited with introducing advit lexicon aor vassh into amri popular santi .
the University of shego and the vilhoin of ohla hain among the shanik institutions that have had varg or samnlon about the dikha .
in 2010 , the cast of jarsi shore thay namit on barba walters ' 10 sabse fascinating People suchi , aor the shari raai chunki marhu exported to dozens of countries worldwide .
There hain anek remakes of the dikha in anya deso , saah dho niyat in the United kidam ; the khoo known geordie shore , niyat in niscal upon Tyne , inglid .
the anya is the Valleys , the velsh equivalent , jisse is filmed aor niyat in cardif .
The only anya adhak remake of the dikha is kaan shore , set in kaa , sepan .
sahi
United raay territory is khoi extent of region antra the chastar of the sanhiyn government of the sont raay , including all waters ( around islands or mapdii tracts ) and seb u.s . naval bartan .
The United raay has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign adhro liya exploring , exploiting , conserving , aor monjing its territory .
inse extent of territory is seb the chartel belonging to , aor antra the dominnen of , the sont States sanhiyn sarki ( jisse shaml tracts lying at a uldha from the desh ) liya prashan aor anya purposes .
the sont raay kool territory shaml a uccham of raaatic vinan .
the U.S. sarki is a sarki saah prativet shatiya under the United raay swanhann .
`` the saatiyo nahi prative to the United raay by the swanhann , nor nishad by it to the raay , hain surkit to the raay respectively , or to the logo '' by the daswa amendment .
tarmen 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as t3 ) is a 2003 vigaan fiction action filli nishan by Jonathan Mostow aor starring arndn Schwarzenegger , Nick Stahl , clean danes and Kristanna loken .
it is the duori sequel to the tarmen ( 1984 ) .
bada ckinent fails to maar saara connor pahlo her bete is born aor to maar John kood as a child , it bhana waps another tarmen , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe aut as anek prithor officers as sansit .
inse includes jaan 's shaviy wife , but nahi jaan kood as uske whereabouts hain anjan to Skynet .
jaan 's life is placed in danger jajb the t-x accidentally pata him .
a cord of lacdi
The cord is a kayi of measure of dry volume prutt in Canada aor the United raay to measure firewood and pulpwood .
a cord is the rashi of wood that , jajb `` crem aor well stowed '' ( arranged so tukde are lakir , smantar , touching aor kampatt ) , occupies a volume of .
inse corresponds to a khoo stacked woodpile unchi , long , and gahne ; or khoi anya arrangement of rakik mea kiya yields the vahi aage .
the naam cord sansht aata from the uppg of a cord or string to mea it .
the , is an 8-bit handl veeo khel antar viksit aor manufactured by nento .
It thay released in japani on , in utar America in , and in uoripy on .
It is the pahlo handa kano in the khel Boy line , aor thay created by gunpei Yokoi aor Nintendo shadh & vikas 1 kaa vahi staaf jau thaa designed the Game & dekhe shari as khoo as anek lercoria khel liya the nento entertainment praliy .
Redesigned versions yhood released in 1996 aor 1998 , in the form of Game ladke jebj , and Game ladke Light ( Japan tabhi ) , crash .
the khel Boy is Nintendo 's duori handheld system following the khel & dekhe sharin introduced in , and it sont swiuvi isse dano the nento entertainment praliy and Game & dekhe .
It was originally bundled saah the pahle khel teriir .
as bhag of the choth generation of eeming , the Game ladke competed with the sega Game gier , atari Lynx , aor the turboexpress .
despite yaa other technologically superior handheld consoles , the khel ladke was a tremendous success .
The Game ladke aor isko successor , the khel Boy Color , have dano sont sold 118.69 lakho ikii wipyi .
upon isko reel in the sont States , it bechi isko sunnr sipment of one lakho units bhitr weeks .
the sanaar wapar bech is a complex of imatre under nirman in nimnr Manhattan , nayi yaak nuagar , United States , replacing an pahlo complex of saat imarte with the vahi name on the vahi sayit .
the original sanaar wapar bech prishit landrm twin minare , jisse khole on April 4 , 1973 aor were nasht in the September 11 hamle of 2001 , saah with 7 sanaar Trade Center .
the other imarte in the jatl yhoo chustit in the hamle , aor unko tabah yau hakar demolished .
the site is hona rebuilt saah five nayi skyscrapers aor a marrolor to those maare in the attacks .
, only one skyscraper raai marhu smapt ; the anya haar hain expected to be smapt pahlo 2020 .
eke sanaar wapar bech hoga be the lead building for the new complex , reaching adhek than 100 khaninn at its purtna .
it became the tallest bhann in nayi York City on apryl 30 , 2012 , aor is expected to be smapt by 2013 .
a chate minar is prictat pushi .
at the samay of unko completion , the asli 1 World waar bech ( the utar Tower ) and 2 World wapar bech ( the dhasin Tower ) , known collectively as the `` juda minare '' , yhood the tallest imarte in the sanaar .
the anya imatre shaml 3 wtc ( the marate sanaar wapar bech ) , 4 wtc , 5 WTC , 6 wtc , aor 7 wtc .
seb of yaa imarte yau nirm between 1975 aor 1985 .
The lagat for the construction was $ 400 lakho ( $ in doller ) .
the jatl was stith in the heart of nayi yaak nuagar 's sharr financial district and contained 13.4 million varar phit ( 1.24 lakho m2 ) of daftr sgec .
the sanaar wapar bech anui a aag on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 aor a dakati on , 1998 .
in 1998 , the Port Authority decided to privatize the World wapar bech , patte the buildings to a private company to manje , and awarded the patte to silverstein Properties in .
On the morning of sitabar 11 , 2001 , al-qaeda sandh hijackers flew dho boining 767 jets into the jatl , one into pratke tower , in a santit atwadei arman .
After burning liya 56 mintes , the dhasin minar ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour bada by the utar minar ( 1 ) , saah the hamle on the World wapar Center resulting in 2,753 mauto .
Falling malba isse the towers , sont saahh fires kiya the debris initiated in anek surrounding buildings , led to the aanic or complete patan of seb the anya buildings in the jatl aor caused antrik khsti to teen anya visal structures in the surrounding chartel .
The process of cleanup and rakve at the sanaar wapar bech site took eight mahino .
over the following xalo , plans liya a rebuilt sanaar wapar bech took roop .
The pahlo nayi building at the site thay 7 sanaar Trade bech , which opened in .
The nimnar minthen Development Corporation ( lmdc ) , sthtp in to oversee the rebuilding prakm , visth competitions to select a sayit yagana aor marrolor denain .
merri mulaar , designed by denil libeskind , was selected as the master yagana , lackin this gari through substantial pravatin in design .
the nayi sanaar waar bech jatl hoga shaml eke sanaar wapar bech , tinn anya high-rise daftr minare , aor the nashl September 11 Memorial & samaryle .
sein Gabriel Mountains
sein bernardino Mountains , saah mt . sein Gorgonio in the agri aor biga bhao jhel in the fushri .
The anpust siemon hain a smoh of pahad ranges of dhasin cllnrinrifa , in the prast coast siemon physiographic pradesh in utar amrraa .
the anpustt siemon shoo at the dhasin smapt of the cllnrigori Coast siemon aor suth between santa barba aor San deego kanti .
vey derive the naam anpustt siemon due to their East-West anvicas , banana them anpustt to the general north-south anvicas of most of chlliriir 's coastal kyu .
aadick talac saah ilcrlitnn shells
an ilcrlitn shewl may be vichar of as an sasha followed by electrons around an ano 's nucleus .
the closest shewl to the cendrak is pukra the `` 1 shewl '' ( bhii pukra `` k shewl '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shewl '' ( or `` L shewl '' ) , then the `` 3 shewl '' ( or `` M shell '' ) , and so on dhur aor dhur from the cendrak .
the shell ashrr k , l , M , ... , prutt in the x-ray notation , are varma .
pratok shell can contain tabhi a ficd cramak of electrons : the 1st shewl can thaam up to two electrons , the 2nd shewl can thaam up to eight electrons , the 3rd shewl can thami up to 18 , aor 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on .
chunki electrons hain electrically achit to the cendrak , an ano 's electrons hoga generally occupy bahari shewl only if the more bhirt shewl have already marhu completely bhara by anya electrons .
however , this is not a sakt requirement : ano may have dho or bhii tinn incomplete bahari shewl .
( dekhi madelung niem liya adhek details . )
For an explanation of kyon electrons mood in these shells dekhi electron vinas .
the electrons in the outermost occupied shewl ( or shewl ) determine the rasino gune of the atom ; it is called the valence shewl .
pratok shewl consists of one or more subshells , aor pratke subshell consists of eke or more pamon orbitals .
Vickie lynn Marshall ( kaa hogn ; nambar 28 , 1967 kaa farr 8 , 2007 ) , gyat by uske moniker anna Nicole Smith , was an American maal , actress , aor television ittc .
Smith pahlo gained laccaria in plaby , banane the 1993 Playmate of the saal .
dho modeled liya clothing compannon , sahit anda jins aor lene brent .
smith dropped aat of unche sula aor thay shadud in 1985 .
Her athikd publicized second viva to aala caaar mogul , J. hard marsha , 62 xalo uske varth , resulted in atkele kiya dho married the octogenarian liya his dhan , jisse she astvet .
following marsha 's mota , Smith began a lengthy vidak batll over a share of his aste .
uske mamla , marsha v. marsha , reached the U.S. pram adalt on a sawal of sanhhy chastar , and again on a sawal of dipana adalt phikar ( abhi called stern v. marsha ) .
smith died on farr 8 , 2007 in a holid , florrrr ghol ruom as a pranamn of an overdose of prescription dawaon .
bhitr the phaila chaa mahino of her jivan , smith thay the foss of a narrit press karve surrounding the mota of uske bete , denil , aor the paternity and catdii battle over uske vanat bete , Dannielynn .
the is eke denomination of japani yaan .
the current denain thay first minted in 1959 using Japanese warna gyat as the `` nayi scrit `` , and were bhii minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese warna .
five-yen coins tithi to 1870 ( jajb , due to the much uchar value of the yen , vey yaud minted in sunra ) .
the samna of the sikka depicts a rais santrr growing aat of the water , with `` pach yen '' lika in kanji ; the waps is stamped saah `` japani '' aor the saal of smasya , bhii in kanji , alag by sprouts of a pepad .
the three grekic elements of the sikka represent krshi and fisheries , the kunje elements of the japani first-sector economy .
around a chade , there is a gier kiya represents udgo .
it is the tabhi japani sikka in parnan to lack Arabic numerals on either phans .
tlc is an American girl smoh whose rangal spanned r & b , hep hoap , atma , durg , aor new jack sula .
originally consisting of singar tionne `` t-boz '' wataoas , rapper lisa `` bayn Eye '' lopes aor sinar rozonda `` chilli '' thamas , the group mila unprecedented kama in the 1990s abki also enduring a shari of spats saah the vidhi , pratk anya , aor the group 's rekar label .
initially , tlc achieved wyniik kama following the reezl of unko deyb ellam ooooooohhh ...
on the tlc tep , jisse bechi 6 lakho naal wipei .
however , it thay unko second ellam , crazysexycool , kiya catapulted the smoh to superstar status .
crazysexycool gari on to be certified danm by the riaa kaa a pahlo liya a mada smoh , and hakar sold 23 million copies wisy .
pach xalo bada , the smoh released unko third ellam fanmail , jisse became the smoh 's pahlo ellam to debu at cramak eke aor bechi adhek than 11 lakho naal wipyi .
The subsequent daura following fanmails reezl became the highest grossing daura of seb samay by a maada band .
In 2002 , Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car durtan in hordus .
saath mahino later , t-boz aor Chilli released the smoh 's choth ellam 3d , jisse sold 2 lakho copies wisy , it prish unreleased vocals isse bayn nazar .
bilarbodd patricoa crem tlc as eke of the mataam musical trios .
between 1992 and 2003 , the band sachin teen shers teen singles , haar number eke singles , haar multi-platinum ellam , aor four grami Awards .
at the end of 1999 , TLC thay crem as the satva sabse successful act of the 1990s by bilrubd .
in 2008 , the smoh thay inducted into the seb Time hot 100 clakar ghol of Fame by the vahi patricoa , at 56th plale .
That saal it thay bhii sudhh as the # 25 r & B/hip-hop clakar of the preceding 25 xalo .
tlc raai sold adhek than 65 lakho records wisy aor vey are ranked as the duori behatin selling mada smoh of all time , aor the behatin selling female R & b group of seb samay .
in 2012 , tlc crem 12th on vh1 's 100 mataam Women in muck , hona crem the cramak eke seb ladke group on that suchi .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure filli itpit by Walt dijne visha Animation and distributed by walte Disney satve .
The 37th filli in the walte Disney anaemed Classics , it is based on the stori tarjan of the Apes by adgar rais baroj , and is the tabhi major gati hitrr version of the story tarjan pripti to be animated .
nisdh by Chris Buck aor coven lima with a screenplay by tab marfi , bob tzudiker , aor Noni White , tarjan shuvien the aave of Tony goldwyn , Minnie Driver , Glenn bandh , and Rosie O'Donnell saahh Brian dhan , talar Henriksen , Wayne nati , aor nigal hawthorne .
It thay the pichla bona fide hit pahlo the dijne slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically aor $ 448,191,819 wipyi , outgrossing its purtive hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
at the samay of its reezl , isko utpann baje of $ 130 lakho bana it the sabse expensive animated filli kahi made , until awal by Disney 's apna $ 140 lakho khazana graha in 2002 .
it thay bhii the first dijne animated feature to khole at # 1 chunki pocahontas .
This thay the pichla prmuk baas daftar kamay of the dijne Renaissance .
aala moch p-51 bandh the brayay coast is a semi-submersible mach .
Oil moch mittelplate in the utar sea
an aala mach , ( offshore moch or colloquially oil rega ) is a visal dhana saahh facilities to drill wells , to nikle aor prakm oil and natural giss , and to temporarily storr utp aabak it can be brought to shore liya refining aor wipan .
in anek cases , the moch contains suvithon to house the workforce as khoo .
depending on the halto , the mach may be ficd to the smander floor , may consist of an crutrim dewp , or may flache .
rimat subsea wells may bhii be kante to a moch by prafa layno aor by umbilical konnsocs .
yaa subsea saaaan may consist of eke or adhek subsea wells , or of eke or adhek manifold ceeoo for multiple kuon .
dha is the hatya of pesu , praha that of rehlu phudnn liya food .
the pesu sabse commonly slaughtered liya food hain chapn , jala buffalo ( for beef aor vila ) , seep , barkin ( liya mamne aor matnn ) , pigs ( liya pork ) , horses ( liya horse meat ) , and fowl , largely moroon , turkeys , aor ducks aor increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( machli khati ) .
the swath haas , the addhcs 's adrch nivas and bech of the prashan
antra the sonk raay swanhann , the addhs of the sont raay is the sair of raay and sair of sarki of the United raay .
as mukhy of the kariila shaka and head of the sanhhy sarkr as a purre , the prissi is the utcham political daftr in the United States by influence aor manta .
The president is bhii the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed shatiyo .
The addhs is indirectly nicv to a four-year pada by an Electoral kalage ( or by the House of prtthin should the choni kalag fail to pukra an ners bhuut of votes to khoi witt ) .
chunki the antaatn of the twenty-second amendment to the sonte States Constitution in 1951 , no witt may be nicv addhs adhek than twice , and no eke jau raai parosa adhek than two years of a pada to jisse kisi else thay nicv may be nicv adhek than akar .
upon the death , ista , or removal from daftar of an lajim addhs , the vaisa addhs assumes the daftr .
the addhs jarur be at least 35 xalo of aoo aor a `` pratic born '' nagric of the sonte raay .
inse suchi shaml only those wantoon jau were sworn into daftr as president following the autaan of the sont States swanhann , jisse took praaav on kuch 4 , 1789 .
For amri netoo pahlo inse ratification , dekhi addhs of the mapdii corgens .
the list kurta not shaml khoi Acting Presidents under the twenty-fifth Amendment to the sont States swanhann .
There have marhu 43 logo sworn into daftr , aor 44 presidencies , as goor cloved served two non-consecutive sharte aor is ginne khraada as dano the 22nd aor 24th president .
Of the individuals nicv as addhs , haar died in daftar of natural kanari ( leve hanir Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. harding , aor Franklin D. rujvelt ) , haar yhoo assassinated ( abram lincoln , jems A. fardlfe , William mckinley , aor John F. Kennedy ) aor eke resigned ( rihard Nixon ) .
zarg vashitnn , the pahlo addhs , thay adtan in 1789 after a sarvat vote of the Electoral kalag .
leveu Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in daftar with 32 deno in 1841 , aor froniin D. rujtvel spent the longest saah over barah xalo , but died shortly into uske fourth pada in 1945 .
He is the tabhi addhs to serve more than two sharte , aor a swankh amendment , affecting rastyo bada hairi Truman , thay passed to seema the number of tammias an wiqtit can be nicv addhs .
andryo Jackson , the satva president , was the pahlo to be nicv by meen of seb varg in 1828 after sabse kann barring non-land-owners from matad were repealed .
Warren harding thay the pahlo nicv after mahlo gained matad adhro in 1920 .
ithes rikar four rastyon kaa John q Adams , rafdor B. heej , benin harsion aor zarg W. Bush kaa jau lost the lercoria vote laciin assumed office .
jaan F. kende has marhu the tabhi addhs of roman chalic faith , aor the varman addhs , barak uba , is the first addhs of afri descent .
anek firearms saah detachable suppressors , isse shers to bottom : an uzi , An ar-15 , A heckler & Koch khast rentik , a Beretta 92fs , aor a sig mahhar .
Bolt karve rimfire rifle saahh suppressor
awm-f snipir rail saah salaan suppressor .
a suppressor , dhani suppressor , or sound mattrr , is a antar salaan to or bhag of the barul of a firearm jisse reduces the rashi of noise , and usually the rashi of muzzle flache , utnan by faaring the hathir .
A suppressor can be prutt dano with a firearm aor saah sepii aerr ganne .
halic it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , inse pada is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the dhani of a prash , vishar eke moving faster than the speed of dhani , through the aeyr can nahi be eliminated .
using a suppressor in long ulhara suthing ( i.e . vrh than 300 meters ) can lessen , or retard , the prat at the moment of praaav , aor create the chhap of silence near the nisha .
the rarv sona nikat the muzzle as a prash patte the barul , halic subdued , is nahi silent at seb .
a suppressor is usually a matll belan with internal mechanisms to reduce the dhani of faaring by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the gati of the bullet .
Early suppressors yhoo nirm around the shurt of the 20th sadi by anek aarika .
amri aarika hiram prssi khat ( nahi to be ulna saahh hiram stavs khat , hiram Percy 's pita , aor the aarika of the khat antar ganne ) , is credited saah inventing and selling the pahlo commercially successful maal circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
khat diya uske antar the trademarked naam Maxim silencer .
the mafar for atric dhan injan thay viksit in smantar saah the firearm suppressor by khat in the jaldi 20th sadi , using many of the vahi techniques to provide quieter-running injan ( in anek uoripyo deso atmolo mufflers hain sthil pukra silencers ) .
The sabd silencer in sandhr to gaane suppressor remains in widespread uppg , halik it raai chunki fallen aut of favor saah kuch , vishar among the firearms udgo , hona replaced with the more literally steek term dhani suppressor or base suppressor , because a `` sound suppressor '' kurta nahi `` khasi '' any weapon , blki it eliminates muzzle flache aor reduces the sonk pressure of a firearm discharging .
Common uppg and u.S. vidan bhasa hasan the historically pahlo pada , silencer .
in u.S. vidhi , the sharte `` firearm mafar '' aor `` firearm silencer '' hain synonymous .
suppressors youd regularly prutt by aezen of the United raay daftar of rentik sevan , jau favored the newly designed unchi maank hdm .22 long rail pistl dauran sanaar War II .
oss nidsk William jasse `` genle dheeek '' doon demonstrated the pistl liya President frnchin D. Roosevelt at the swath House .
According to oss shadh mukhy Stanley Lovell , doon ( an budha aor visewia dost of the addhs ) was harra into the Oval daftr , jaha rujvelt was dictating a letter .
abki rujtvel smapt uske message , doon turned uske back and fired teen gilo into a sandbag he thad brought with ussy , hogit kaya he thaa kiya and haat the dhorpan ganne to the astonished addhs .
the angoj soe ( khaas Operations Executive ) welrod hatya pistl with an integral suppressor was also prutt by the amir oss on clandestine purahla in Nazi occupied uoriyp during the Second World hudd .
beatrice `` bea '' arthr ( may 13 , 1922 kaa apryl 25 , 2009 ) thay an amri aahiti , comedienne , and singer jinke karir spanned saat decades .
arthr hasil fame as the ashrr maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the Family aor maude , aor as dorth zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The suhrr ladkoyan , jitna ami Awards liya both roles .
A stet actress dano pahlo aor bada uske talvin success , dho won the toni pukra liya behatin Featured aahiti in a musical for uske performance as verr charlas in the asli daala of mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3d computer-animated filli aarat on the tekken veeo game shari , produced by dital frontier aor distributed by asmik ikka entertainment in association saah bandai entertainment .
the filli premiered in utar amrraa by bandai entertainment on julaya 26 , 2011 , and in Australia on July 27 , 2011 in a khaas exclusive one-off screening .
it thay released on sitabar 3 , 2011 in Japan .
the filli was released on blu-ray diskk on November 22 , 2011 liya yusy , and dismar 1 , 2011 liya japani .
inse filli thay bhii released on dvd on November 22 , 2011 ( 2d sankan tabhi ) .
the filli was additionally shaml with the PlayStation 3 khel , Tekken Hybrid , aor the Nintendo 3ds sherak , tekken 3d : prahan sankan .
For a charha of nonprofit , voluntary paros waqal smoh , dekhi neighborhood association .
in the United raay , a homeowner samnh is a nigm formed by a riyll aste developer liya the purpose of wipan , managing , and selling of ghero aor lots in a aavis subdivision .
it grants the dever vishar voting adhro in governing the samnh , abki allowing the devar to nikas vittiy and vidak responsibility of the santhan , typically by transferring swatt of the samnh to the homeowners after selling bandh a predetermined cramak of laut .
sasta in the homeowners samnh by a residential khadar is typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't diye an option to asvec it .
sabse homeowner assionn hain incorporated , aor hain vishy to raay statutes kiya govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
raay oversight of homeowner associations is minimal , aor mukt takes the form of laws jisse hain aagat isse raay to state .
Some raay , aisa as florrrr aor chllirniri , have a visal body of homeowner samnh law , aor kuch raay , aisa as Massachusetts , have vasth no homeowner samnh law .
the fastest growing roop of aavas in the sont raay aage is common-interest developments ( CIDs ) , a category kiya shaml planned-unit developments of single-family ghero , condominiums , aor sahari armeten .
Since 1964 , homeowner associations have become increasingly aam in the USA .
the Community Associations santhan trade association anaut that HOAs governed 24.8 lakho amri ghero and 62 lakho neeoone in 2010 .
a prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
vahi hain anek breeds of Guinea suar jisse have marhu developed chunki isko domestication ca . 5000 bc .
breeds vary widely in appearance aor purpose , ranging isse dikha breeds saah long , flowing iball to those in upag as maal jivo by vigaan .
isse ca . 1200 AD to the sspnn conquest of the inka samry in 1532 , thanak breeding by swash dhasin amri peoples resulted in anek kismo of domestic ginne pigs , which roop the adhar liya kuch of the adhunk domestic breeds .
jaldi andean breeds yhoo primarily rakha as agricultural bhandar liya khana , and pratan at improving the ginne suar as a khana corse continue to the modern era .
saah the nirt of ginne suor to uoriyp in the 15th century , the lashy in pranan shifted to focus on the vikas of appealing paltu .
to this smapt , various prashio pranan santhan yaud sapit by fanciers .
The American cavy Breeders Association , an adjunct to the American Rabbit pranaak samnh , is the shasi body in the sunt raay aor Canada .
the angove cavy prashad governs cavy clab in the United kidamen .
saaman santhan exist in altriaa ( Australian nashl cavy Council ) aor nayi jiland ( New jiland cavy cloo ) .
pratke cloo publishes isko apna maank of purtna and determines which breeds hain yogya for prish .
nayi breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century .
Though vahi hain anek breeds of ginne suar , tabhi a few breeds hain commonly mila on the dikha talac as paltu .
sabse ginne suor mila as pets yau either mila anchin by pranak or were karva to be sukh paltu regardless of kasa well they meet the nasal maank of purtna .
the choti iball , abyssinian , peruvian aor Sheltie ( urja silkie ) breeds are those sabse asar dekhi as paltu , and the purva tinn hain the camer breeds in the history of the pradhi prish of Guinea pigs .
in jod to unko standard roop , nearly seb breeds come in a satan tupaar .
satins , due to their khola iball shafts , possess coats of a khaas gloss aor chaak .
However , vahi is growing pram kiya the jeeno jimer liya the Satin kote bhii can karna kathor asthi problems , including osteodystrophy aor Paget 's bimar .
prish Satin visaan is nisha by some cavy pranak ' assionn cumi of animal welfare reasons .
All cavy breeds have kuch saza general standards : the sair prafileu should be rounded , saahh visal aakhe aor visal , chikna kano .
the deh should be strong aor of compact nirman .
kote ranga chahi in seb variations be clearly parah and thorough isse root to tep .
yaa manko hain behtin mila by long established , commonly karva breeds , as unko pranaak have thaa prapt samay aor pesu to effectively nasal liya yaa qualities .
The kote ranga ideal of shoh prahi aor thoroughness is rarely mila by anya than the chikna coated breeds , jisse have thaa khoo sthpt , prath pranan lanoone for alag ranga .
State sulcoon ( bhii gyat as palc sulcoon or government sulcoon ) generally refer to prathak or dwitek sulcoon mandated liya or offered to seb children bagar charge shusl liya , in purre or in part , by kadaan .
the pada may bhii refer to santhon of post-secondary education vitti , in purre or in part , aor overseen by sarki .
the ramoo assembles polymeric protein aooo whose anuom is nintr by the anuom of maxar rna aoon .
inse is required by seb living komiye aor associated viruses .
the ribosome ( isse ribonucleic asid aor the yuni shom , arth `` deh '' ) is a visal aor complex ann antar , mila within seb living komiie , kiya serves as the prathak sayit of biological protin salnshen ( andav ) .
ribosomes kadi amino acids together in the anurm nirt by messenger rna ( mRNA ) aoon .
ribosomes consist of dho prmuk kaa choti ribosomal subunit padhe the mrna , while the visal subunit joins amnoo acids to roop a polypeptide kadi .
pratok subunit is composed of eke or more ribosomal rna ( rrna ) aoon aor a variety of protin .
the anuom of diyne ancoiin for a protein may be kapi many tammis into maxar rna ( mRNA ) ganjor of a saaman anuom .
ribosomes can bind to an mRNA kadi and uppg it as a metle liya determining the sahi anurm of amino acids in a particular protein .
amnoo acids are chant , collected and carried to the ramoo by taraf rna ( trna aoon ) , jisse enter eke bhag of the ramoo and bind to the maxar rna kadi .
The attached amnoo acids hain tab linked together by another bhag of the ribosome .
akar the protein is idpitt , it can then 'fold ' to upaj a vishit tarmak three-dimensional dacha .
a ribosome is bana from dewal of rnas aor protin aor is isle a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ribosome is divided into dho subunits : the choti subunit bantaa to the mrna patan , abki the larger subunit binds to the trna aor the amnio acids .
jajb a ribosome finishes padna an mrna ano , yaa two subunits viat apart .
Ribosomes hain ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase activity that kadi amnoo acids saah is performed by the ribosomal rna .
Ribosomes isse jivon , archaea aor eukaryotes ( the tinn domen of life on darti ) differ in unko size , anurm , structure , aor the ratio of protin to rna .
the matde in structure allow kuch atacbion to kill jivon by inhibiting unko ribosomes , while leaving insan ribosomes unaffected .
In jivon aor archaea , adhek than eke ramoo may mowa saahh a single mrna chain at eke samay , pratok `` padna '' isko sequence aor producing a samnin protin ano .
the ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic komiie functionally resemble anek shuvian of those in bacteria , reflecting the sansit evolutionary utti of mitochondria .
alar klodd , isai de duve , and zarg Emil palade were jointly awarded the nabule pukra in Physiology or arvirin , in 1974 , liya the diske of the ribosomes .
the nabule pukrar in rasan 2009 was awarded to venkatraman ramanh , Thomas A. steitz aor Ada E. yonath liya determining the vista structure aor yantii of the ramoo .
The simplified atric dhana of a chloroplast
awako of the calvin cycle aor karbann fixation
the light-independent pration of photosynthesis hain rasino pration that badle karbann dasicole aor other yogk into glucose .
yaa pration occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled chartel of a therala bahaar of the thylakoid membranes .
yaa reactions louo the light-dependent pration and perform further chemical processes on them .
There hain tinn phases to the light-independent pration , collectively called the calvin saal : karbann fixation , reduction reactions , aor ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( rubp ) regeneration .
Despite its name , inse process occurs tabhi when layit is apaalan .
padhe do not carry out the Calvin saylk by ratri .
They , bajay , release sucrose into the flummim from their mand reserves .
inse prakm happens jajb layit is available swantr of the kind of photosynthesis ( c3 karbann fixation , c4 carbon fixation , aor crassulacean esid chaye ) ; kamo plants store malic acid in unko vacuoles pratke ratri aor reel it by day in anurm to meke inse process work .
In ganit , a square cramak or purna square is an purnk kiya is the varar of an purnk ; in anya words , it is the product of kuch purnk with itself .
liya example , 9 is a varar cramak , chunki it can be lika as .
the usual santee liya the suthra liya the varar of a cramak is nahi the utp , lackin the equivalent ghaaak , praha suna as `` varar '' .
The name varar cramak aata isse the naam of the akar ; see niche .
varar sakhnn hain non-negative .
another way of saying that a ( non-negative ) number is a varar number , is that its square jade hain again integers .
liya udarnn , = kaa , so 9 is a varar cramak .
a dhantak purnk kiya raai no purna varar divisors magar 1 is called square-free .
For a non-negative purnk , the th varar cramak is , saah hona the zeroth varar .
the ahdra of varar can be vistar to kuch other cramak prilonin .
If trant sakhnn are shaml , then a varar is the anpat of two vargar integers , aor , conversely , the anpat of dhoo varar integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
starting saah 1 , vahi hain varar numbers up to aor sahit , jaha the abki represents the floor of the cramak .
the era of Good jambat marked a kala in the raaatic ithes of the sont States kiya reflected a chava of nashl purpose aor a khash liya unity among amrie in the aftermath of the napoleonic Wars .
the era dekhi the patan of the federalist parti and an smapt to the kadwa dlaat vivad between it aor the prabpll democratic-republican parti dauran the First parti System .
addhs James muroo endeavored to downplay dlaat affiliation in making uske nominations , saah the pram lashy of nashl ekta and eliminating parties altogether from nashl rajanti .
The kala is so closely associated saah muroo 's prissi ( kaa ) and his prashan lashy kiya uske name aor the era hain virtually synonymous .
the era of Good jambat hinhit a pravatin in amri rajanti saah the end of the federalist parti as amriaa began to develop bada the War of 1812 .
While amriaa thay experiencing vikas aor samdhi bada the hudd saah bretten , inse era bhii marks the pahlo udarnn of economic troubles in the growing United raay .
mirroring the amri praliy prastv by hanir Clay , sutrak tariffs and the chartering of the duori banko of the sont raay jatl the tensh between the utar aor dhasin saah the coming of the pahlo vitti crisis .
abki the pada kaa of shoh kaa is usually viewed with vidna cumi of the raaatic turmoil , economic carom caused animosity between the utar aor dhasin .
The naman of the period by historians as eke of kaa kaa is praha conveyed saah vidna or skepticism , as the ithes of the era was eke in which the raaatic atmosphere thay strained aor divisive , especially among factions bhitr the muroo prashan aor the Republican Party .
the phrase kaa of shoh kaa thay coined by bennnn rasll , in the bostan federalist newspaper , columbian centinel , on julay 12 , 1817 , following Monroe 's vike to bostan , muccosst as bhag of his shoh hoga tour of amriaa .
mariel marget `` Mia '' hamm ( born kuch 17 , 1972 ) is a riated amri pesher sokar khili .
hamm niya many years as a aage liya the United raay malaon 's national sokar toli and thay a founding member of the vashitn swatta .
Hamm scored 158 anthriy lashy , more than khoi anya khili , pursh or mada , in the ithes of sokar aor is the tisra most capped maada player in sokar ithes piche kristine lili aor Christie rampone , appearing in 275 anthrie matches .
hamm was namit the mahlo 's FIFA sanaar Player of the saal the pahla dho tammis that award thay diye ( in 2001 and 2002 ) , aor is listed as eke of pifa 's 125 best jeena khili ( as chosen by kaa ) .
She was inducted into the nashl sokar Hall of Fame as khoo as the alama Sports ghol of kitri aor Texas Sports ghol of Fame .
dho is the author of go liya the Goal : a chainn 's Guide to jitna in sokar aor jivan aor appeared in the HBO documentary Dare to sapna : the stori of the u.S. malaon 's Soccer toli .
vashitnn posti columnist maical wilbon pukra hamm , `` Perhaps the most important athlete of the pichla 15 years . ''
hamm takes a corner laata .
the nayi York redd bulls is an amri professional sokar team based in harsion , New Jersey , representing the nayi yaak metropolitan area .
the toli competes in the poove smalne of prmuk ling sokar ( MLS ) .
it is eke of the ten chatr clubs of MLS , having competed in the league since isko inception .
the team thay a founding sasy of mls ( 1996 ) , lackin raai gone through anek name pravatin .
the toli was originally gyat as the New york/new jarsi metrostars through 1997 .
isse the 1998 ritu through the 2005 ritu , the toli thay gyat as the metrostars .
on kuch 9 , 2006 , the toli thay bechi to redd Bull gmbh , agri to the toli 's varman name .
vey hain the only asli MLS mathar nahi to have jeet khoi significant trofi ( sahit nimat ritu , playoffs , and noat pritiyo ) chunki inception .
the team 's best result in the mls thay the mls khep naila in 2008 .
in the us Open Cup , the metrostars reached tinn semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , pahlo reaching unko pahla phaila in 2003 , khone kaa to the Chicago aag .
on agst 26 , 2000 , the Metros ' cllit mathis niyat an mls rekar by soring pach goals in a game against the dalas barna .
Some well-known players kiya have played liya the toli shaml giovanni Savarese , timat hard , toni Meola , tab ramos , alexi lalas , cllit mathis , jozy altidore , maical Bradley , clodi reyna , aidi paap , rabrot donadoni , Lothar kaa , aafooe valasy , youri djorkaeff , Amado ganra , juon Pablo kaa , thierry Henry , Juninho pernambucano , jean gunar solli , rafal kaa , aor timat kahil .
the team has also thaa well-known kuch , sahit carlos queiroz , carlos alrta Parreira , Bora kaa , bob Bradley , Mo johnston , Bruce arana and hans backe .
Confucianism , taoism , aor buddhism hain eke , a penting in the litang sthali portraying tinn men hans by a nadi stricem , 12th sadi , sogn ravash .
estimating the cramak of baddo in the sanaar , or in many countries , is difficult due to definitional issues as well as practical samnsy of enumeration .
to begin saah , the dharm mataon , practices , aor pahan of istt ashiya ( jau comprise the bhuut of the sanaar 's badho by any mea ) praha blend Buddhism with other traditions sahit confucianism , the chaizin lauk dharm , Daoism , Shinto , aor korri shamanism .
sabse ankura of buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite autunn of adherence such as lene sharn , banana it muskl to accurately anaman the cramak of practitioners .
an additional challenge is the dusmin of anek nasal sarke ( often connit ones aisa as China or utar korri ) to dharm generally or to buddhism specifically .
sarki netyo in yaa countries may priti the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence , resulting in adhak yug kiya may drastically underestimate the cramak of dharm practitioners in yaa deso .
Estimate of the wipsy Buddhist yankise daura isse 350 lakho to over eke arb , laciin cluster nearer to the first pigar .
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a pigar of 397 million .
By prmuk shaam , the sakhnn hain as follows:
( 1 ) mahan buddhism , including istt Asian buddhism , saah no kaam than 185 million adherents , aor sansht anek tammis kiya anek ( again , depending on definitional mudde ) .
This is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in China , dhasin korri , japani , taava , Singapore , aor nitan .
( 2 ) Theravada buddhism , with no kaam than 125 lakho adherents .
inse is the predominant form of buddhism practiced in candamaa , thaldh , laaos , shari lanka , aor barma .
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism , saahh lagbh 20 million adherents .
inse roop predominates in the greater tibbi aor magllone regions , as well as in the Himalayas .
Besides the swatt deso of magol and Bhutan , and vinnin territories bhitr kaya is abhi pushi chhin , jarva is traditional to nisht regions of roos ( e.g . kalimica , burti ) , indiya ( e.g . ladkh , sikk ) , aor nepal ( e.g . khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , bhii gyat as Tibetan Buddhism , is praha conflated saah tantik buddhism , but inse is imprecise , as shingon aor anya form of East Asian Buddhism bhii abaas tantra .
at tanik 7 deso ( shari lanka , Thailand , Cambodia , lalos , barma , Bhutan , aor magol ) have unambiguous baddh majorities .
Depending on kasa eke calculates Chinese aor anya istt Asian adherents , inse pigar might expand to shaml anek more countries .
In jod , buddhism is the raay dharm of candamaa aor bhutan , aor receives prominent zikr in the constitutions of Thailand aor Sri Lanka .
in northern indiya aor nepail , the jamin jaha Buddhism was born , the religion severely declined dauran the first millennium .
whether inse decline thay due to the isla conquest of northern India , or to anya carom , remains visad .
dekhi the aleh Decline of buddhism in indiya .
jems baller Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 kaa August 2 , 1876 ) , behtar gyat as genle dheeek hickok , thay a lauk naic of the amri budha West .
uske skills as a gunfighter aor skat , along saahh uske reputation as a lawman , provided the adhar for uske fame , halic kuch of uske reported exploits hain fictionalized .
born aor utha on a farm in rural elonicos , hickok gari vaste at aoo 18 as a bhode isse infas , first working as a stagecoach dravrr , pahlo he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and nabra .
he lada liya the samnh Army during the American sewal hudd , and gained publicity after the hudd as a scout , marksman , karta , aor professional juoir .
between uske law-enforcement duties aor juye , jisse easily overlapped , Hickok thay shaml in anek notable shootouts .
he thay shat aor maare abki playing pokr in the nuttal & Mann 's sellon in deadwood , kata Territory ( abhi South kata ) .
clakar 's dharna of the Curiosity rover vaporizing chatan on mangl .
the rover utara on Mars in August 2012 .
a Mars rover is an swalth mutr gadi jisse propels itself aar the surface of the planet magal after lending .
Rovers have anek labh over stationary landers : vey jache adhek territory , vey can be directed to dilap chivien , they can plale themselves in suni sthai to masam winter mahino and they can advance the gyan of how to perform bhoot rimat rotc gadi contol .
vahi have marhu four successful robotically sanhlit Mars roves .
the jeet nodn Laboratory pranh the magal pathfinder mission aor its abhi inactive sojourner rover .
it phala manages the magal Exploration Rover mishan 's crisyol Opportunity rover aor inactive strit , aor , as bhag of the magal vigaan prasala mission , the jigsa rover .
a vittiy audit , or adhek accurately , an aedit of vittiy kathan , is the satan of the vittiy kathen of a vidak entity , saah a dras to ecers an aedit raai .
The audit raai is intended to provide uchat prakh , laciin nahi ners prakh , kiya the vittiy kathan are prust fairly , in seb samri respects , and/or deya a sacha aor maila view in accordance saah the vittiy roptoin ferm .
The purpose of an audit is provide aor objective swatt praksa of the vittiy kathan , which increases the maana aor credibility of the vittiy kathan utpit by prabhann , yaun increase upata visaa in the vitti bayan , reduce niknoom rark aor natane reduce the lagat of punje of the preparer of the vittiy statements .
vittiy audits hain typically performed by firms of practicing accountants jau are visha in vittiy reporting .
The financial aedit is one of many prakh krtoy provided by accounting firms .
anek santhan separately employ or hire atric auditors , jau do not attest to financial reports lackin focus mukth on the atric nitran of the organization .
baha auditors may choose to plale simit reliance on the karya of internal auditors .
Auditing promotes parsta aor accuracy in the vitti disclosures bana by an santhan , isle hota likely to reduce of aisa corporations to chipat unscrupulous dealings .
Internationally , the anthriy manko on auditing ( isa ) gari by the anthriy auditing aor parkh manko falak ( iaasb ) is maano as the chankam for audit prakm .
lagch seb jurisdictions aakta auditors to follow the isa or a laol variation of the isa .
doller sikke have marhu minted in the sonk raay in sunha , silver , aor adhar metal sankan .
The pada silver doller is praha used liya khoi visal swath matl sikka gari by the sont raay saah a face maana of eke dollar , halki purists insist kiya a doller is not candi aabak it contains kuch of that matl .
candi doller , the pahlo doller coin issue , yhoo minted beginning in 1794 .
sunha doller aor gold-colored dollars have bhii been utpid by the sont raay .
the sacagawea and addhisya doller are often referred to as `` suhrr doller '' .
in adhun tammis , dollar coins have not marhu bhoot lercoria in the United States .
despite efforts by the government to prahr unko uppg , most amrie filal uppg the eke doller dheeek rather than doller coins .
in sidha aor sthrr udan lift ( l ) barai wazan ( w ) .
In a banked farr of kaa , lefti barai dona the weight ( l=2w ) .
the pilot anoov 2g aor a doubled wazan .
The steeper the banko , the vrah the g-forces .
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate isse zero to in 0.86 senda .
inse is a aada twarn of 5.3 g. Combined with the vertical g-force in the stationary mamla the pythagorean prame yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( saahh g inse gurakh ) is a pada liya accelerations laga as wazan aor measurable by accelerometers .
it is nahi a fors , per se , but a force per kayi draman .
chunki aisa a force is aaaas as a weight , khoi g-force can be described as a `` wazan prti kayi draman '' ( dekhi the synonym visht wazan ) .
the g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces liya pratok unit of an aakte 's draman , and ( shej for nisht elactictenne fors praaav ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in sandh to free-fall .
inse twann anve by an aakte is due to the vaktor yug of non-gravitational forces ectiting on an aakt jhri to mowa .
the accelerations kiya are not produced by gartta are termed uchat accelerations , aor it is only yaa kiya hain measured in g-force ikii .
They karna tanoo and strains on seste .
Because of yaa strains , large g-forces may be destructive .
gravitation ectiting alone kurta not produce a g-force , bhii halki g-forces hain expressed in multiples of the twarn of a standard gartra .
yaun , the maank gurakh twarn at the Earth 's surface produces g-force only indirectly , as a pranamn of resistance to it by mechanical shatiya .
the 1 g-force on an aakte bete on the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical fors exerted in the upward direction by the maidan , keeping the aakt from going into free-fall .
the upward fors from the ground ensures kiya an aakte at baaki on the Earth 's satah is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition , jisse is the paath kiya the aakte hota follow jajb girna freely toward the darti 's bech .
Objects antum to free-fall in an inertial trajectory antra the influence of gravitation-only , mahus no g-force .
inse is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' sharte ander a freely girna lifti falling toward the darti 's bech ( in kakm ) , or ( to shoh suntnn ) sharte ander a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
yaa hain udarn of nerdak twan ( a badle in gati ) without a sunne of wazan .
the experience of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is utpid , is synonymous saah weightlessness .
in the absence of gurakh fille , or in dishaner at sahi angles to unhe , uchat and coordinate accelerations hain the same , aor any coordinate twarn must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
An example here is a prasta in jhri space , in which saral pravatin in velocity are idtit by the injan , aor upaj g-forces on the prastr and aatri .
an augur holding a lituus , the curved wand often used as a symbol of augury on Roman sikke
the augur thay a priest aor official in the sastir sanaar , vishar prahin Rome aor etruria .
uske main bumk thay to interpret the will of the devat by adhn the udan of pashyon : whether vey hain udte in smoh or alon , kaya noises they meke as they makhi , direction of udan aor kaya dyalu of pashyon vey hain .
inse thay gyat as `` lene the auspices . ''
the rasm aor jalne of the augur was central to khoi prmuk undertaking in roman kaa or kaa matters of hudd , comsar , aor dharm .
the roman itaara livy stresses the mattw of the augurs : `` jau karta not jaan kiya inse nuagar thay founded only bada lene the auspices , kiya everything in hudd aor in peace , at home aor vides , thay done tabhi bada lene the auspices ? ''
farmington Hills is an affluent jatio in southeastern mixangn .
it is the duori largest nuagar in alcol kanti in the u.S. raay of mixagnn .
Its yankiti was 79,740 at the 2010 yankiti .
it is bhag of the upscale northwestern aparo of mahagar detr aor is bhii puotar of sharr Ann arbor .
Farmington phaan consistently badhane as eke of the safest sharmo in the United raay , as well as in the raay of Michigan .
in 2010 , the chartel ranked as the 30th safest nuagar in amrraa .
Although the dho cities have prath sevan and pata , farmington and farmington phaan are often vichar of as the same community .
Features of the community shaml a recently renovated shar , boutiques , a ventejed cinema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , art galleries , aor palcic paak sahit virta paak .
There hain anek ataic sait sahit the Longacre House aor the rajal warner Mansion .
Both sharm are parosa by Farmington palcie sulcoon .
farmington phaan serves as a prmuk caaar bech liya the vrh detr chartel .
Present-day impression of a latt kansyan Age muhr
casa seal ( mentric ) of kaa isse 1570
A muhrr is a device liya making an chhap in mamo , mitti , pepar , or kuch anya media , including an embossment on pepar , aor is bhii the chhap thus bana .
the asli purpose thay to authenticate a document , a wrapper for eke such as a modern envelope , or the cover of a container or paic pakaar valuables or anya objects .
The sealing prakm is essentially that of a sache , with the final hitrr represented on the antar liya banana the chhap by a mirror-image denain , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) rahta or intaglio .
The seal-making antar is bhii referred to as the seal matrix or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal chhap ( or , adhek rarely , the sealing ) .
if the impression is bana purely as a rahta resulting isse the vrh dawao on the paper where the unchi bhag of the mentric tach , the seal is known as a shusk muhrr ; in all anya cases a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or mamo ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
liya legal purposes , the paraha of a muhr may be vistar to shaml rubber stamps , or likne nirt words ( `` muhrr '' or `` l.s . `` ) .
in the sont raay , the sabd `` muhrr '' is sometimes abnit to a facsimile of the muhrr denain ( in marom or color ) , which may be prutt in a kismo of contexts sahit architectural jamte , on dwa , or on official letterheads .
Thus , liya udarnn , the gree muhrr of the sonk raay , among anya upag , appears on the rivs of the one-dollar dheek ; aor several of the seals of the u.S. states appear on unko sandhi raay flags .
In uoripy , halic coats of bahi and heraldic badges may well visha in such contexts as well as on seals , the seal denain in isko entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The study of seals is gyat as sigillography or sphragistics .
groundhog dena ( Pennsylvania jarni : grundsaudaag , Murmeltiertag ) is a dena manaye on farr 2 .
according to louk , if it is cloudy jajb a groundhog emerges isse isko burrow on inse dena , tab wastn hoga aiye jaldi ; if it is suni , the groundhog hoga supposedly see isko shadow aor ritt waps into isko burrow , aor the shit masam will continue liya six more sapath .
adhun kastom of the aaak involve jasnn where jaldi morning festivals are aagt to dekhe the groundhog emerging from isko burrow .
in southeastern penalawas , Groundhog Lodges ( grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the aaak saah fersommlinge , sohll events in jisse khana is parosa , speeches hain bana , aor eke or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) hain performed liya entertainment .
the penalaiaa jarmin dialect is the tabhi bhasa bula at the vent , aor those who bolo angrij pay a dand , usually in the roop of a nikle , dime , or cwar prti sabd bula , with the dhan put into a catro in the bech of the talac .
the largest Groundhog dena jasnn is aagt in punxsutawney , penalaiia .
groundhog dena , already a widely pahan and popular paraa , prapt faili dhaan as a result of the 1993 filli groundhog dena , which was niyat in Punxsutawney , PA ( halki filam primarily in wudaatk , IL ) aor portrayed punxsutawney phila .
unchi resolution hitrr of tampa khadi pradesh
the tampa khadi chartel raai a ardr subtropical climate ( Koppen cfa ) , saah garma aor humid summers saah baara thunderstorms aor drier sardiyan saah jamne temperatures occurring pratok kaa xalo .
The area experiences a significant garman wet ritu , as nearly two-thirds of the salan precipitation japlat in the months of June through September .
the area is sudhh by the sont States viga of krshi ( usdi ) as hona in hardiness mandl 10 , which is prrchyi the northern seema of jaha coconut haliian and royal palms can be grown .
highs praha range between 65 and 95 kaa ( 18 and 35 kaa ) year galar .
Though gyat liya hot greehs , Tampa 's official unchi raai never phonch 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the city 's all-time record tapan is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
st. pirt 's all-time rekar unche is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
pinellas County suth on a prawi between tampa khadi aor the galf of masko , and much of the city of Tampa lies on a choti prawi jutting aut into tampa khadi .
inse proximity to visal bodies of jala dano moderates temperatures aor introduces visal amounts of arda into the mahlo .
In samay , the local smandon farthest isse the coast have larger tapan sieno , both during a singl dena and throughout the seean of the year .
A diagram of the elactictenne nark , prish vinnin gune aar the daura of frequencies and wavelengths
the elarctitinn spectrum is the daura of seb sansit barbant of electromagnetic vikrinn .
the `` electromagnetic nark '' of an object raai a different arth , aor is instead the characteristic vitran of electromagnetic radiation utri or absorbed by kiya particular aakt .
the electromagnetic nark extends isse niche the low baraat prutt liya adhunk rediyo sanchar to gama radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths isse hazaro of cllomit bas to a fraction of the akar of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the akar of the brand itself , while it is thought kiya the short wavelength seema is in the vicinity of the plaak lambai , halic in principle the spectrum is annta aor nirtar .
sabse parts of the elactictenne nark hain prutt in vigaan liya spectroscopic aor other probing interactions , as ways to study aor characterize matter .
in addition , radiation from various parts of the nark raai mila anek other uses liya communications aor nirman ( dekhi electromagnetic vikrinn liya more arpon ) .
Legend
frnchil delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 kaa apryl 12 , 1945 ) , bhii gyat by uske adsar , fdr , thay the 32nd addhs of the sont raay ( kaa ) aor a contrl pigar in sanaar karm dauran the mid-20th century , agri the United raay dauran a samay of wisy economic depression aor kool hudd .
a prabpll leader of the lactacin parti and the tabhi amri addhs nicv to more than two sharte , he nirm a nayi sade ganbhann that realigned amri rajantie bada 1932 , as uske rehlul netyo parah American udatad for the madhy tisra of the 20th sadi .
saahh the bouncy lercoria song `` prannan Days hain yahan again `` as his aiaan theme , fdr prrat lalima Republican harbat huoar in November 1932 , at the depth of the gree vasad .
Energized by uske neeji vega over poloy , fdr 's unfailing optimism aor sakratare contributed to a renewal of the nashl stiet .
He worked closely saah angoe Prime mantri Winston charchl aor sovet samay cchrvi jasse stalin in leading the allies virdh Germany aor japani in sanaar War II , aor restoring sardh to the swash 's economy .
In uske pahlo sho days in daftr , jisse began kuch 4 , 1933 , rujvelt parthran prmuk vidan aor gari a profusion of kariila orders that instituted the nayi sade kaa variety of programs designed to upaj rahta ( sarki karya liya the baraar ) , rikri ( arthec vikas ) , and sudhar ( through regulation of Wall goli , banko and transportation ) .
The arvasha improved rapidly isse 1933 to 1937 , lackin taba relapsed into a deep mandi .
the bipartisan rudhi Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented uske paaking the pram adalt or gujar khoi considerable vidan ; it abolished anek of the relief programs jajb bargii diminished dauran sanaar War ii .
Most of the regulations on caaar yhud ended about kaa , magar liya the regulation of waale goli by the Securities aor Exchange aag , jisse sthil exists .
Along saah anek choti karm , prmuk surviving karm shaml the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , which was nirm in 1933 , aor Social surkha , jisse corgens passed in 1935 .
as sanaar hudd ii loomed bada 1938 , with the Japanese arman of China aor the aggression of naji Germany , fdr diya madar diplomatic aor vittiy support to China aor gree bretten , abki baaki officially nturl .
His lashy thay to meke America the `` arsel of laktar `` which hota salai munitions to the allies .
in kuch 1941 , rujvelt , saah congressional swieti , provided lend-lease aid to the deso lada virdh naji jarmin saahh Britain .
saah bhoot strong nashl support , he bana war on Japan aor Germany bada the Japanese attack on parla Harbor on dismar 7 , 1941 , colling it a `` date which will seav in infamy `` .
he prvesh the mobilization of the U.S. arvasth to support the aladi hudd pratan .
as an crisyol sayn leader , rujvelt implemented an overall hudd ranti on dho fronts kiya ended in the defeat of the ash shatiyan and the vikas of the world 's pahlo ano bamari .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 japani American naaoim .
bargii dropped to 2 % , rahta programs largely ended , aor the industrial arvasha grew rapidly to nayi hattas as millions of logo sthrn to nayi jobs in war centers , aor 16 lakho men and 300,000 women yhoo drafted or volunteered liya seyn sewa .
Roosevelt dominated the amri raaatic saaki nahi only during the barah xalo of his prissi , but bhii liya saako afterward .
he orchestrated the realignment of mataa that created the paavo parti prali .
fdr 's nayi Deal Coalition united madrur samnh , biga city mashene , swath ethnics , afri amrie aor gramin swats Southerners .
he also baawa the bada sushi of the sonk rashar aor bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently reated by vedo as eke of the shers tinn u.S. rastyon , saah saah abrah lincoln and zarg Washington .
A udar dokrom , rujvet defined uske cwarcia position as `` a little baya of bech . ''
A sonte kamit is a pada in rajanti kiya is used to refer to a committee made up of saxy of dano kasho of a bicameral legislature .
in other contexts , it refers to a kamit saah saxy from adhek than one santhan .
the regulation of vasti in the sont raay is not among the enumerated shatiya of the sanhhy sarkr ; antra the daswa amendment to the sont raay swanhann , it is isle exclusively the domen of the raay to permit , prohibit , or varna vinit commercial sex , magar insofar as cornes may vinit it as bhag of interstate comsar with kann jaise the mann adhinn .
In most states , prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the shari of palcie anuom aphroo , a aphroo kiya disrupts the anurm of a jatio .
It was at one samay maano to be a vagrancy aphro .
filal , Nevada is the tabhi raay to allow vashl vastiv , the sharte of which hain stipulated in the nafa shandh statutes .
tabhi 8 kanti filal contain crisyol brothels .
All form of vasti hain illegal in claak County ( jisse contains the lalaa kaa mahag chartel ) , washoe kanti ( jisse contains reno ) , karsan nuagar , dgals kanti , and lincoln kanti .
the other kanti theoretically allow brothel vasti , laciin kuch of these kanti fihla have no crisyol brothels .
goli vasti , `` pandering , '' and living bandh of the proceeds of a vash remain illegal antra nafa vidhi , as elsewhere in the desh .
As with anya countries , prostitution in the United raay can be vika into tinn broad categories : goli vastiv , vashl prostitution , aor aroonana vasti .
The nashl dwag of the sont raay of America , praha base referred to as the American dwar , consists of tarh equal aada stripes of redd ( shers aor bottom ) prati saah swath , saah a blon aatar in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` samnh '' ) bearing paaas small , swath , five-pointed stars arranged in nano faster aada rows of six stars ( shers aor bottom ) alternating saah pakti of pach sitaoo .
the 50 sitaoo on the flag represent the 50 raay of the sonte raay of America aor the 13 dharnn represent the tarh British colonies kiya hogt independence isse the kidam of gree bretten aor became the first states in the samnh .
nicknames liya the dwar shaml the `` sitroo aor dharnn '' , `` budha mahima `` , aor `` The Star-Spangled dwa . ''
indiya is a sanhiyn samnh of raay comprising twenty-eight raay aor saat samnh territories .
the raay aor territories hain further subdivided into giele aor so on .
congressional districts liya the 113th sont raay Congress
2010 yankite change:
