a partly submerged glacier gufa on perito moroo Glacier .
The barf mukhar is approximately 60 m unche
barf formations in the titlis glacier cave
A glacier gufa is a gufa formed within the barf of a himne .
Glacier guffan are often called barf caves , but inse pada is properly prutt to describe bedrock guffan that contain year-round barf .
in physics , golar motion is a movement of an aakt saah the prrhira of a vrat or rotation saah a golar paath .
it can be vaddi , saah constant angular rayte of rotation ( and nirtar gati ) , or non-uniform saah a changing rayte of rotaon .
the rotation around a ficd assh of a three-dimensional deh involves galar gati of its parts .
The equations of gati describe the gati of the bech of mass of a body .
Examples of galar motion shaml : an artificial ugrah orbiting the Earth at nirtar unchi , a stoon jisse is tied to a rope aor is being swung in circles , a car turning through a curve in a race track , an electron moving perpendicular to a vaddi chumbe fill , and a gear turning ander a yantii .
chunki the aakt 's gati vaktor is constantly changing direction , the moving aakte is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal fors in the direction of the bech of rotation .
bagar inse twarn , the aakt would move in a sidha line , according to nutan 's kann of gati .
Apollo panth is a fictional character from the raki films , initially portrayed as the undisputed hevit Champion of the World .
he thay niya by Carl Weathers .
panth had multiple nicknames , sahit the Master of vipti , the kinning of Sting , The Dancing vinaak , the Prince of Punch , the eke aor Only and the ginti of mote fisto .
Urban lende raay kiya Apollo Creed 's name is a wordplay on the rulo ' panth , a statement of belief used in Christian churches .
seb of aplo 's champ jadhe yhoo scheduled for the 15 round ulha .
champ fights did not badle isse 15 rounds to 12 rounds aabak 1987 .
Rocky balwa is praha wrongly credited saah popularizing the redd , swath , and bllu trunks ; panth was the first man to pahne them ( latterly worn by Rocky balwa in the 3rd aor 4th kistoo and hakar by tamm `` The Machine '' gunn ( tamm morsio ) in the 5th kist ) halki normally he pahna red aor swath , as seen in raki ii .
Balboa 's hastar rango yhood black aor kaa he prutt in the latest movie .
In the United raay , the sherak of sanhhy judge praha means a judge niak by the addhs of the United States and pushi by the United States sinte pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the sont States swanhann .
in addition to the pram Court of the sont raay , whose existence and kuch faluo of jinke chastar are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter , acts of cornes have established 13 nyloy of appeals ( also pukra `` sakit courts '' ) saah appellate cthsarr over alag regions of the United raay , aor 94 sont raay district nyloy .
Every judge niak to aisa a court may be categorized as a federal ndeshi ; aisa positions shaml the mukhy infas aor sandh justices of the pram adalt , sakit dhythoin of the courts of appeals , aor jila dhythoin of the United raay district nyloyan .
seb of yaa judges varnn thus far are referred to sometimes as `` aleh iii dhythoin '' because vey exercise the judicial sakti vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by aleh III of the U.S. swanhann .
In jod , judges of the adalt of International Trade exercise nyak sakti pursuant to alekh iii .
anya judges seat in the sanhhy courts , including jaxitert judges and dipana dhythoii , are bhii sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , they hain neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , aor their power garbhi isse aleh I bajay .
See aleh I and aleh iii adrion .
the beretta 21a babket is a choti pocket-sized semi-automatic pistl designed by beretta in itli .
utpann began in latt 1984 , solely in the Beretta U.S.A. swida in accokeek , mariland .
It is a further vikas of the Beretta maal 20 , whose utpann ended in 1985 .
paritive Universal jivan bima ( praha shortened to vul ) is a parkar of jivan bima kiya builds a nadi value .
in a VUL , the nadi maana can be invested in a chaude kismo of prath khate , saaman to prspar funds , aor the choice of jisse of the apaalan separate accounts to uppg is entirely up to the andhun owner .
the 'variable ' ghatak in the name refers to this ability to invest in separate khate jinke values kaa vary because they hain invested in bhandar and/or bandh bajar .
the 'universal ' ghatak in the name refers to the flexibility the malic raai in making priemium bhugat .
the priemium can vary from nothing in a diye maah up to maximums defined by the Internal Revenue kood liya jivan bima .
inse chlpaan is in contrast to purre life bima that raai fixed premium bhugat kiya typically can not be choti bagar lapsing the niti ( although one may exercise an swalth Premium rinn visha , or atpan dividends to ada a purre Life priemium ) .
Variable sarvik jivan is a parkar of sthai jivan bima , because the mota labh hoga be shusl if the insured dies khoi time as long as there is sufficient nadii maana to pay the lagat of insurance in the policy .
saah most if nahi seb VULs , unlike purre life , vahi is no endowment age ( the aoo at which the cash maana barai the mota benefit amount , jisse liya whole life is typically 100 ) .
inse is yet another key labh of vul over purre jivan .
saah a ther purre jivan niti , the death benefit is simit to the phans rashi specified in the niti , aor at endowment age , the phans rashi is all that is paid aut .
yaun with either mota or endowment , the bima compnni keeps khoi cash maana built up over the years .
however , kuch participating purre jivan netyoo prasav riders jisse specify that khoi dividends shusl on the policy be prutt to kharide `` shusl up prarwaan '' to the policy jisse badan both the nadi maana and the death benefit over samay .
if nivesh bana in the prath accounts out-perform the samay khata of the bima compnni , a uchar rate-of-return can occur than the ficd rates-of-return ther liya whole jivan .
the combination over the years of no endowment aoo , continually increasing death benefit , and if a unchi rate-of-return is earned in the prath khate of a vul policy , this could result in ucharr maana to the malic or lathare than kiya of a whole life niti with the vahi amounts of dhan shusl in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a tupaat of the classic wood stove adapted liya set-up bahari abki sthil transferring the uusho to atricim imarte .
a mound of ladki skat kouk .
inse mound contains 74 baax of kouk
ladki skat kouk hain cookies sold by ladke skat of the USA ( gsusa ) as one of isko major fundraisers for laol skat ikii .
Members of the gsusa have marhu selling cookies chunki 1917 to raise nidhe .
ladkoyan jau participate can earn prizes for their efforts .
vahi are also unit patano if the kayi as a purre karta khoo .
As of 2007 , bakri yhoo estimated at prachy 200 lakho boxes per year .
vilhoove ghol
purdue University , located in vaste Lafayette , Indiana , is the lephis vilhoov of the six-campus Purdue vishoon system .
Purdue thay founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant vilhoon jajb the indian samay subha , taking labh of the morrill adhinn , accepted a daane of jamin aor dhan isse Lafayette businessman John purdue to establish a kalag of science , prikii , aor agriculture in uske name .
the pahlo classes were aegt on September 16 , 1874 , with chaa instructors aor 39 vidhhi .
aage , purdue is a sasy of the Big teen Conference , and is a khoo gyat world-class research santha .
Purdue enrolls the duori largest chaar body of khoi vilhove in indiaa as well as the choth largest anthriy student population of khoi vilhoov in the United raay .
purdue offers dano undergraduate aor graduate karm in over 211 prmuk chatto of padha , aor is khoo known for isko competitive aariiii curricula .
the university has also been atdich influential in amriaa 's ithas of aviation , having sthpt the pahlo kalag cretita offered in flight prashan , the first four-year stank 's upadi in vimanin , aor the pahlo vishoon airport ( Purdue University visanter ) .
Purdue 's vimanin technology karm remains one of the most pradhit aviation-specific programs in the sanaar .
in the mid-20th century , purdue 's aviation program vistar to encompass unta spaceflight technology giving vrdhi to purdue 's upna , Cradle of Astronauts .
twenty-three Purdue graduates have gayi on to become astronauts , sahit ghg grissom ( eke of the original Mercury saat astronauts ) , Neil araat ( the first witt to tulna on the chandrma ) , aor yujin cernan ( the most recent witt to walk on the chandrma ) .
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a pada that loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( bhii gyat as epidermal cysts ; l72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( bhii known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid gaath originates in the epidermis aor a pilar gaath originates from iball follicles , by paraha , neither type of gaath is sakti a sebaceous gaath .
the name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty , swath , semi-solid samri in both of these gaath entities is nahi sebum , but keratin .
Furthermore , under the microscope neither antii contains vasay glands .
In abaas , however , the terms are praha prutt interchangeably .
`` sacha '' vasay cysts hain acrat rare and hain gyat as steatocystomas or , if multiple , as steatocystoma malticees .
adhun pointe shoes .
the kinare of the touo pad , jisse is inserted between the paar aor toe baas liya cushioning , can be seen on the sahi paar .
a pointe juto is a parkar of juto worn by bele dancers when performing pointe karya .
pointe jute viksit isse the khash liya dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have viksit to enable nartak to nrt en pointe ( on the nuske of their toes ) liya extended periods of samay .
They hain samth worn by mada nartak , halki male dancers may pahne them for unorthodox roles aisa as the ugly stepsisters in sindr , niche in a Midsummer ratri 's sapna , or men performing as mahlo in dance companies aisa as lesa Ballets Trockadero and grandiva .
They hain manufactured in a kismo of rango , sabse commonly in sheds of light lulabi .
inse tablespoon raai a khshta of about 15 mL .
measuring Spoons
in the us aor bhag of kanda , a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for eating from a catro .
In the UK , uoripy aor sabse Commonwealth countries , a tablespoon is a parkar of large spoon praha used liya seat .
in countries jaha a tablespoon is a serving macha , the nitaom smatll to the us tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup macha .
a tablespoonful , nominally the khssta of eke tablespoon , is commonly prutt as a measure of aage in cuking .
it is abbreviated as t , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The khshta of ordinary tablespoons is nahi regulated by law aor is subject to considerable vinna .
in the yusy one tablespoon ( mapan kayi ) is approximately 15 ml ; the khshta of an actual tablespoon ( daiing utensil ) siemon isse 7 mL to 14 ml .
In Australia eke tablespoon ( mapan kayi ) is 20 mL .
Harry kumar is a series of seven calpick novels lika by the British lakkk J. K. roling .
The kitab vrat the adventures of a judar , Harry kumar , aor his mitro Ronald vigle aor harmini grenjer , all of whom hain students at Hogwarts sula of chooll and Wizardry .
the prmuk story chhap chiyten hairi 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard rab Voldemort , jinke aims hain to become amar , conquer the wizarding sanaar , subjugate non-magical logo , aor nasht seb those who stand in uske way , especially Harry kumar .
chunki the reezl of the first ankh Harry kumar aor the Philosopher 's stoon on 30 juon 1997 , the kitab have gained immense laccariat , naun acclaim and wyniik success worldwide .
The shari raai bhii thaa kuch share of criticism , sahit chinta liya the increasingly dark tone .
, the kitab shari raai bechi about 450 lakho copies , banana it the best-selling kitab shari in history , aor has been translated into 67 languages .
the pichla haar books consecutively set raadar as the fastest-selling kitab in history .
a shari of anek jata , including fantasy aor coming of aoo ( with tatv of rahs , thirl , adventure , aor romance ) , it raai anek santric meanings and references .
according to roling , the prmuk theme is moua .
There hain also anek other themes in the shari , aisa as purva and corruption .
The araic major prakk of the kitab were bloomsbury in the sonk Kingdom aor Scholastic dabae in the sonte raay .
The kitab have chunki been prik by anek publishers worldwide .
The kitab , with the satva book split into dho bhag , have marhu made into an eight-part film series by Warner bhai Pictures , the highest-grossing filli series of all samay .
The shari bhii originated much tie-in merchandise , banana the Harry kumhr brand layak in excess of $ 15 arb .
Also due to the kama of the kitab aor films , Harry kumar raai marhu prutt liya a thema paak , the Wizarding World of hairi kumar in Universal paak & ristar 's ailedids of adherer .
rs-68 being tested at NASA 's Stennis Space bech .
The nearly parse exhaust is due to inse injan 's exhaust being mostly attp steam ( water vapor from its propellants , hydrogen and oxipinn )
Viking 5C prastr engine
a rocket injan , or base `` rocket '' , is a jeet engine that upag tabhi narrd propellant draman liya forming isko high gati propulsive jeete .
Rocket engines hain reaction injan and obtain thrust in accordance saah nutan 's tisra vidhi .
chunki they need no external material to roop unko jeete , prastr injan can be prutt liya spacecraft nodn as well as sthali uses , aisa as missiles .
Most prasta injan are internal combustion injan , halik non-combusting form bhii exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the utcham exhaust velocities , hain by far the lightest , but are the tanik propellant efficient of seb parkar of jeet injan .
`` ... Baby One adhek Time '' is a sogn by American reacoidin clakar Britney Spears .
it parosa as Spears 's deybu singl aor sherak track isse uske deybue studio album , ... Baby eke More samay ( 1999 ) .
Written by adacht Martin aor itpid by Martin and Rami , `` ... Baby One More samay '' thay released on sitabar 30 , 1998 , by Jive Records .
bada reacirdin and sending a demo tep with an aurt song isse Toni braxton , Spears signed a multi-album sade saah jive .
`` ... baby eke More Time '' is a teen pop and dance-pop sogn that refers to a girl jau regrets breaking up saah uske borrfende .
The sogn prapt generally anu reviews from achoon , who praised isko composition .
`` ... baby One More Time '' attained wash success , reaching number one in pratke country it charted .
it also prapt numerous certifications around the sanaar , aor is one of the best-selling singles of seb samay , with over 10 million naal bechi .
an accompanying music veeo , nisdh by nigal Dick , portrays sgaps as a student from a Catholic high sula , who starts to daydream kiya dho is gaaon aor nacha around the sula , abki watching uske love interest isse afar .
the music video thay bada referenced in the music veeo of `` if U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ) , where sgaps 's fictional bete is dressed with a similar schoolgirl outfit abki wearing lulai ribbons in uske hair .
In 2010 , the muck video liya `` ... baby eke More samay '' was voted the third most influential veeo in the ithes of pop muck , in a paal aagt by jam ! .
sgaps has performed `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' in a number of live appearances aor in all of her kanten tours .
it thay the encore of the ... baby One adhek samay daura ( 1999 ) aor Dream bhitr a sapna daura ( 2001 ) ; sgirs bhii performed remixed versions of the sog dauran the uuff ! ...
i kiya it again sanaar daura ( 2000 ) , the gomed Hotel daura ( 2004 ) , The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ) , The Circus aubhin Britney Spears ( 2009 ) , aor the femme fatale Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby eke adhek samay '' thay mantin liya a grami pukra for behatin mada paap gaaon Performance , aor raai been shaml in lists by blender , roling stoon aor vh1 .
it raai been vika liya redefining the dhani of latt 1990s muc .
sgaps raai namit `` ... baby eke More samay '' as one of uske panda gito isse her career .
It thay also the phaila sog to be played on the biss 's mooc programme shers of the bautre .
Cholera is an infection in the choti intestine caused by the bacterium vibrio cholerae .
The main lashan are watery diarrhea aor ulti .
hatran occurs primarily by pina jala or eating khana that raai marhu contaminated by the maal ( barbad utp ) of an infected witt , sahit eke with no apparent lashan .
the garrtt of the atarr and ulti can seese to repid nirzan aor electrolyte imbalance , aor mota in kuch cases .
The prathak upaar is oral pulkir chikta , typically with mauk pulkirn saahan , to badle water aor electrolytes .
If inse is nahi tolerated or does nahi provide improvement teaj enough , intravenous fluids can also be prutt .
jivnde drugs hain beneficial in those saah severe disease to shorten its avhdi and garrtt .
Worldwide , it affects kaa million logo aor kanari kaa deaths a saal .
haja was eke of the earliest infections to be padha by epidemiological vidhi .
The Picture of dorrin Gray is the tabhi prik anko by askar Wilde , appearing as the seese stori in lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 juon 1890 , mudri as the July 1890 samm of inse magazine .
The patricom 's editors feared the story was abhrd as submitted , so vey censored roughly 500 sabd , without wall 's gyann , before prashan .
lackin bhii saahh that , the stori thay still greeted with outrage by angoe reviewers , some of zisko suggested kiya Wilde chahe be prosecuted on moral grounds , agri wall to caaav the novel aggressively in ashrr to the angove press .
wall bada shandit the stori for kitab prashan , banana substantial alterations , hatna visad passages , adding nayi adhya and sahit an aphoristic preface jisse raai chunki become famous in its own right .
the amended version thay prik by vard , tala and Company in apryl 1891 .
kuch scholars believe that wall hota aage have wanted us to read the sankan he originally submitted to lippincott 's .
the novel tells of a yag man namit dorrin dhuser , the vishy of a penting by artist besll hallward .
Basil is pravit by dorrin 's beauty aor becomes infatuated with him , believing uske sander is responsible liya a nayi vidhi in uske art .
Dorian meets rab Henry Wotton , a friend of Basil 's , aor becomes enthralled by Lord hanir 's sanaar view .
espousing a nayi hedonism , rab hanir suggests the tabhi things worth pursuing in jivan hain beauty aor fulfilment of the hosh .
realizing that one day uske sandar hoga fika , dorrin ( whimsically ) expresses a khash to bech uske attm to ensure the portrait Basil raai chitr would aoo blki than he .
dorrin 's wish is fulfilled , and jajb he subsequently pursues a life of vilat , the porte serves as a smarn of the praaav pratok act raai upon uske attm , saahh pratke seene displayed as a disfigurement of his roop , or through a chhan of vadaa .
the Picture of dorrin Gray is maano a karya of clask ghtick fiction with a madar faustian theme .
kaa kaa ( born 6 February 1917 ) , gyat as Zsa zor gabbar ( ) , is a hangrr -born amri actress who acted in supporting bioan in movies , on brawade , and occasionally on telvin .
gabbar thay bhii a socialite .
dho began uske stes karir in Vienna at aoo 15 , and thay crowned mixa hangri in 1936 .
dho emigrated to the sont States in 1941 aor became a sought-after actress with `` European fluer aor sthali '' , with a personality kiya `` exuded arshan and grace '' .
uske pahlo film bumk thay as supporting aahiti in paare to Look at .
She bada acted in we 're Not shadud !
aor played eke of uske few leading bioan in Moulin rooj ( 1952 ) , nisdh by John hastan , who varn uske as a `` visepian '' aahiti .
besides uske filli and talvin diwaae , dho is behtan gyat for having nano husbands , including ghol marhhari condr hilat and karta George sendrs .
She akar stated , `` meen have sada liked me aor I have sada liked men .
But I like a mannish man , a man who knows kasa to vaat to aor davat a stri kaa not baae a man with muscles . ''
bross Lee ( traditional : kaa ; born liele jun-fan ; 27 nambar 1940 kaa 20 julaya 1973 ) thay a chaninn amri martial artist , karta , martial kela instructor , paros , and filler .
the saaphsk of Jeet Kune Do , Lee thay the bete of Cantonese opera sthrr liele hoi-chuen .
He is widely considered by commentators , critics , media aor other martial artists to be one of the sabse influential martial caloom of seb samay , aor a paap santi pretikt of the 20th sadi .
he is praha credited with helping to badle the way ashyi yhood prust in amri films .
liele thay born in chaunn , sein fanko on 27 November 1940 to aarak from hong Kong aor was utha in kolon saah his pravar until uske latt khshor .
he thay introduced to the film udgo by uske pita and appeared in anek films as a chailad karta .
liele moved to the sonte States at the aoo of 18 to prapt uske uchar sikka , and it was during this time that he began shikn martial arts .
uske Hong kaang aor Hollywood upaj films elevated the praat hong kaang martial kela filli to a nayi sthrr of laccaria and acclaim , sparking a surge of beaj in Chinese martial arts in the vaste in the 1970s .
The direction aor tono of his films changed aor influenced martial arts aor martial arts films in hong kaang aor the baaki of the world .
he is noted liya uske roles in five feature-length films : lo Wei 's The Big boss ( 1971 ) and mutti of foori ( 1972 ) ; Way of the drann ( 1972 ) , nisdh aor written by Lee ; warner bhoyo ' Enter the drann ( 1973 ) and the Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both nishan by rabtr Clouse .
liele became an iconic pigar gyat throughout the sanaar , vishar among the chaizin , as he portrayed Chinese rashad in uske films .
He initially prish in wing chun , laciin bada asrvet well-defined martial wart shalia , favouring bajay the uppg of catcoon isse vinnin sources , in the spiet of his personal martial kela dasnrr , jisse he utale jeet kune do ( the rasta of the intercepting mutti ) .
liele aegt duol nagrat of Hong kaang aor the United raay .
he died in Kowloon Tong on 20 juli 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also gyat as dirlic obstructive peeon bimar ( thanda ) , dirlic obstructive airway disease ( COAD ) , chronic airflow limitation ( calori ) aor dirlcol obstructive respiratory bimar ( cord ) , is the occurrence of dirlc brentic or emphysema , a jodi of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in jisse the aerve narrow over samay .
inse hud airflow to and isse the fefede , causing shortness of saans ( dyspnea ) .
in nadic abaas , COPD is defined by its characteristically low airflow on peeoo jalne prashan .
In contrast to asthma , this limitation is poorly reversible aor praha gets progressively badtar over samay .
COPD is caused by noxious ano or gass , sabse commonly isse tobacco dhorpan , jisse triggers an asaan jalne jawab in the lung .
the diagnosis of COPD requires peeon function prashan .
Important management strategies hain smoking cessation , vaccinations , punars , and drag chikta ( often using inhalers ) .
Some patients go on to require long-term oxipinn chixa or lung pratn .
wisy , COPD ranked as the chate leading karnne of mota in 1990 .
it is prast to become the choth agrin cause of mota wipsy by 2030 , due to an increase in smoking daro aor yankiti changes in anek deso .
COPD is the tisra agri karna of death in the U.S. , and the arthec burden of COPD in the u.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in swast paava lagat and lost utda .
annelies `` aani '' maare fenk ( , ? , ; 12 June 1929early kuch 1945 ) is eke of the sabse discussed yhode piditoo of the Holocaust .
Her dayre has been the basis liya several plays aor films .
born in the city of fint am prmuk in Weimar jarni , dho jiya most of her jivan in or nikat addrmas , in the Netherlands .
born a jarni national , fenk lost her citizenship in 1941 .
dho gained anthrii kitri maran bada her dayre was published .
it documents uske anoov chapan during the jarni occupation of the Netherlands in sanaar hudd ii .
the Frank privar moved isse jarmin to addmast in 1933 , the year the Nazis gained contol over Germany .
By the shurt of 1940 , they you funn in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the niddlendr .
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in julay 1942 , the family went into hiding in the chupa sash of aani 's pita , otto Frank 's , office bhann .
After dho xalo , the smoh was betrayed and transported to visha camps .
aani Frank aor uske sister , margot , yhoo eventually transferred to the bergen-belsen concentration camp , where they died of typhus in March 1945 .
otto Frank , the tabhi survivor of the family , lauta to addmast after the war to find kiya Anne 's diary thaa been saved , aor his pratan led to isko prasaon in 1947 .
it was andut isse isko asli bach aor pahlo prik in English in 1952 as The dayre of a Young ladki .
it raai chunki marhu translated into many bhaan .
The dayri , which thay diye to aani on uske 13th jendamas , chronicles uske life isse 12 juon 1942 aabak 1 August 1944 .
karte 's hastar
karte Donald Cobain ( farr 20 , 1967 kaa April 5 , 1994 ) thay an American santarr aor clakar , best gyat as the lead singar , guitarist and prathak songwriter of the grunge band nirvan .
Cobain formed Nirvana saah Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 aor established it as part of the Seattle muck saaki , having isko deybue ellam Bleach released on the swantr record lable sub paap in 1989 .
bada signing with prmuk label dgc rikar , the band mila bhann kama saahh `` khoob Like tinn spiet `` from its duori ellam Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
following the success of nevermind , Nirvana thay labeled `` the flagship band '' of pedhe x , aor Cobain hailed as `` the parka of a pedhe '' .
kobo , however , thay praha uncomfortable aor kunti , believing uske sanse aor kalarce vision to have marhu misinterpreted by the public , saah his neeji issues praha subject to midia attention .
he challenged Nirvana 's audience saah isko final stiyi ellam in Utero ( 1993 ) .
dauran the pichla xalo of uske jivan , kobo struggled with heroin wasne , illness and vasad .
he bhii thaa parashe coping saah uske kitri and palcie hitrr , aor the professional aor lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and uske wife , musician Courtney Love .
on apryl 8 , 1994 , Cobain thay mila murde at his gher in Seattle , the shakar of kaya thay officially shati a attha by a self-inflicted shotgun ghav to the head .
The halto of his mota at aoo 27 have become a topic of palcic fascination aor debate .
chunki unko debut , Nirvana , saah koobe as a songwriter , has bechi over 25 lakho ellam in the u.S. , aor over 50 million worldwide .
redily injan timing and kamo yatrii .
click liya pura reus anmichin .
redilay injan of a balpenn
Master lati ( katar ) , slaves and balances from a two-row , fourteen-cylinder pratt & white Twin Wasp
the redilay injan is a prtaii parkar atric dhan injan configuration in jisse the silender paitin outward isse a central crankshaft like the spokes of a whel .
It resembles a stylized sthr when viewed from the samna , aor is called a `` sthrr engine '' ( jarni sternmotor ) in kuch bhaan .
The radial vinas was bhoot commonly prutt in yavan engines pahlo tarbin injan became predominant .
the sunhe ladkoyan is an amri sitcom , created by Susan Harris , kiya originally aired on ansi from sitabar 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
Starring Bea Arthur , betti swath , rue mcclanahan and Estelle getty , the show centers on four purine women sharing a home in Miami , Florida .
it thay utpid by witt/thomas/harris prantosn , in samnh saah touchstone talvin , aor Paul Junger witt , toni thamas , aor haris parosa as the original executive nirma .
The suhrr Girls prapt naun acclaim throughout most of its run aor won anek pukkar , sahit the pritim ammi pukrar liya bika Comedy Series twice .
It bhii won three Golden Globe Awards for Best Television Series kaa musical or Comedy .
seb haar stars each prapt an Emmy Award throughout the series ' run aor had multiple nominations .
The series also ranked among the top teen highest-rated karm liya six aut of its seven seasons .
deepwater khudi is the prakm of oil aor gas khoji aor utpann in depths of more than 500 phit .
by inse paraha , vahi are lagch 600 deepwater kuon in the galf of Mexico .
it raai marhu economically infeasible liya many years , laciin saah utthe oil kimti , adhek compannon are investing in this area .
Major companies working in inse sactor shaml damnd Offshore , TransOcean , and bekar Hughes .
There are basically dho kinds of mabul deepwater khudi rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs aor drillships .
Drilling can bhii be performed isse a fixed-position sapata aisa as a floating spar ( mach ) or tension-leg platform .
Recent udgo analysis has anaut that the total expenditure in the wash deepwater avachana maket will reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa all aal is accessible on land or in utle water .
tuma can find some oil jama dhann deep antra the ocean kaa ... Using sonk equipment , oil compannon determine the drilling sait sabse sansit to upaj oil .
Then vey uppg a mobile offshore drilling unit ( modu ) to khudi the initial khoo .
kuch ikii are privit into utpann rigs , arth vey swach isse drilling liya oil to capturing aal akar it 's found .
sabse of the samay , the aal compnni will replace the modu with a more permanent oil production rig to capture kaa ... the modu 's job is to drrli bas into the smander 's floor to dhonde aala jama .
The part of the drrli that extends below the deck and through the jala is pukra the riser .
the riser allows liya drilling fluids to mowa between the manjil aor the rig .
Engineers nimnar a drrli string -- a shari of pipes designed to drrlil down to the aala jama -- through the kaa
kaa expansion of deepwater drilling is happening despite durton in offshore filled ... kaa
in 2010 a visal vistt occurred hatya 11 madrur aor spilling millions of galan of aala into the galf of masko while a bp aala rega was khude in deep waters .
kaa ... despite the risks , the deepwater khudi trend is spreading in the bharmeg aor bandh the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural kaa
kaa karna for the resumption of aisa khudi , analyst kah , is continuing unchi maang for energy kaa
amrraa needs the oil so it is lagch juri to face the unche risks that come with deepwater khude in anurm liya amrie to continue to carry on unko raaj jivana .
kaa urja viga recently projected that galf aal utpann hota vistar isse its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a dena , sthil nearly a cwar of kool domestic utpann , to 2 million barrels a dena by kaa
deepwater drilling affects the environment in both negative and dhantak trrke .
Although deepwater drilling rarely kanari oil spills it is sthil a hazardous sansit nisha .
aal spills result in aal sinking to the bottom of the smander smothering plant jivan leaving machli without food and shelter to jivat .
on the anya haath deepwater drilling praaav the environment in a positive trrke too .
in samay once the deepwater aala well is nahi in upag anymore padhe will grow on and around the khoo making a cave or cavern jaise ashyr adesh liya pesu to thrive in .
deepwater khudi also lets us dekhi the depths of the smander manjil that hain hardly kahi dekhi .
kaa on rovers at the bottom of the kuon rakar tooje and louo foto of kirval machli kiya are in there natural habitat , giving waginit a dekh at pesu they rarely kaa ( shaan nigm ) . ''
monka samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an amri stri with whom United States President dheeek cletin admitted to having thaa an `` improper relationship '' abki she worked at the White haas in 1995 aor 1996 .
the affair aor isko parkna ( which shaml cletin 's mhoooog ) became gyat as the Lewinsky scandal .
Francis alar `` fenk '' sinta , , ( December 12 , 1915 kaa May 14 , 1998 ) thay an American singar aor film karta .
shurt his musical karir in the sula era with hairi jems aor Tommy dorsey , sinta mila unprecedented success as a xolo artist isse the early to mid-1940s bada being hastic to collanba rikar in 1943 .
Being the idll of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released his pahlo ellam , the Voice of fenk sinta in 1946 .
uske pesher career thaa stalled by the 1950s , lackine it was punman in 1953 after he jeet the Academy pukrar for behatin supporting karta for uske performance in From Here to Eternity .
he hastir with Capitol raad in 1953 aor released anek critically lauded albums ( aisa as in the Wee Small ghanto , gito liya Swingin ' priemian ! , Come makhi saah me , tabhi the Lonely and nice 'n ' asaan ) .
sinta bayn katpll to mila his own record label , Reprise raadar in 1961 ( finding kama with ellam aisa as ring-a-ding-ding ! , sinta at the sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & antooie carlos Jobim ) , toured internationally , thay a founding sasy of the chooha paak aor fraternized saah celebrities and cutnooi , including John F. kende .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , ankit the retrospective sitabar of my Years , stakhrr in the ammi -winning talvin khaas fenk Sinatra : A man aor uske muck , aor scored hitas saah `` Strangers in the ratri `` aor `` My rasta `` .
saah sales of uske music dwindling aor bada appearing in anek poorly prapt films , sinta ritar liya the pahlo samay in 1971 .
Two xalo later , however , he aaye aut of retirement and in 1973 recorded anek albums , scoring a shers 40 hit saah `` ( thema From ) nayi yar , nayi yaak `` in 1980 .
using uske lalaa vegas shows as a gher adhar , he toured both bhitr the sont raay and internationally , aabak a short samay before his death in 1998 .
sinta bhii forged a atdich successful karir as a film karta .
After jitna behatin Supporting karta in 1953 , he bhii garnered a naman liya Best karta liya the Man with the sunhe buja , and naun acclaim for uske performance in the cumrunn pratiy .
he bhii stakhra in aisa musicals as High Society , Pal jaya , yaro aor daal aor on the Town .
Sinatra thay honored at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 aor was awarded the Presidential padak of swatta by Ronald reagan in 1985 aor the congressional sunha Medal in 1997 .
he thay the parta of grah Grammy Awards , including the grami trustees pukar , grami lende pukra and the Grammy ajvan Achievement pukkar .
Sinatra is bhii eke of kaa best-selling caloom of all samay , having sold adhek than 150 lakho copies worldwide .
ther cornhole falak
Cornhole , also known as seem bag toss , makai toss , baggo or baag , is a laana khel in which khili louo turns fonna corn chade bags at a raised platform with a chade in the far smapt .
a bag in the hole scores 3 ank , abki eke on the platform sakor 1 paitin .
Play continues aabak a toli or player phoch the sakor of 21 .
The amri Gold Eagle is an official sunhar bullion coin of the sont States .
prachat antra the sunha Bullion sikka Act of 1985 , it thay first released by the sonte States minte in 1986 .
Bikram yug is a pralil of yoga that Bikram choudhury synthesized isse pragat hatha yug techniques aor popularized beginning in the jaldi 1970s .
seb Bikram Yoga varg run liya 90 mintes and consist of the vahi series of 26 postures aor 2 breathing exercises .
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a room heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) saah a arda of 40 % , .
crestar maical massey ( born 26 janri 1990 ) is an American karta , hasi aor rapper best known liya abhint as maical Barret in Nickelodeon talvin shari zoey 101 .
massey has prapt many pukrar aor naman including a Young clakar Award aor Emmy pukar nominations .
he is bhii gyat for appearing in anek commercials in the jaldi 2000s .
A conventional teaspoon made of stainless sthyl .
A teaspoon is an mada of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument , as khoo as a kayi of mapan of aage in some countries and customs .
a farnn is khoi eke or adhek of a smoh of about 12,000 species of padhe belonging to the vastpi group known as pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , they have xylem and flumf ( banana them vascular padhe ) .
vey have tana , leaves , and jade jaise other vascular plants .
ferns reproduce via beoon and have neither beej nor flowers .
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , laciin ferns as defined here ( bhii pukra monilophytes ) shaml horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte bhii refers to ferns and a few anya bijart vascular plants ( see classification khand below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil rekar 360 lakho years pahlo in the carboniferous lackin many of the varman families aor species kiya nahi appear until roughly 145 million xalo pahlo in the jaldi Cretaceous ( after flowering plants aaye to dominate anek environments ) .
Ferns hain nahi of prmukh arthec importance , laciin some hain grown or gathered liya khana , as ornamental plants , liya remediating contaminated soils , aor have marum the subject of research liya their ability to remove kuch rasiic pruskuk from the aeyr .
kuch hain significant weeds .
They also khel a bumk in mythology , medicine , aor art .
Flat roofs in isril
chapat chaat in lalsa enjicls
a chapat chaat is a parkar of covering liya a bhann .
In contrast to the adhek sloped roop of chaat , a chapat chaat is aada or nearly horizontal .
the slope of a roof is properly gyat as isko pich : roofs jisse hain nearly flat are gyat as low-pitch roofs ( as the kaun of dhalan increases , so the pich is khaa to increase ) .
khoi chadar of material used to cover a flat or low-pitched chaat is praha known as a jilli aor the prathak purpose of yaa lilhon is to waterproof the roof chartela .
Materials kiya kaar chapat roofs typically allow the jala to chalan bandh from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter praliy .
jala isse kuch chapat roofs such as on gardan sheds sometimes bahti freely off the edge of a chaat , though gutter systems are of labh in keeping both walls aor mulaar shush .
drenj on smaller roofs praha seese jala directly onto the maidan , or better , into a specially made soakaway .
drenj on larger roofs usually seese water into the rainwater nala pralil of khoi built up chartel .
occasionally chapat roofs though hain designed to collect jala in a pool , praha liya aesthetic udsey , or for rainwater buffering .
chata roofs exist seb over the world aor each chartel has isko apna tradition or vurta for materials prutt .
in warmer climes jaha rainfall is kaam aor jamne is unlikely to occur , anek chapat roofs hain base nirm of chini or kantit aor inse is good at keeping aut the heat of the suory and cheap and asaan to nirman where timber is nahi readily apaalin .
In areas jaha the roof could become saturated by barat aor lika , or where jala soaked into the brickwork could freeze to barf aor thus lead to 'blowing ' ( tokar up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the vistar of barf as it forms ) yaa roofs are nahi upk .
Traditionally most chata roofs in the western world meke use of tarol or adhek usually tar pepar lagoo over chaat alakar to keep a bhann watertight .
the tar or tarpaper is in farr covered in baari to kharna the suory 's umsho , uv kirne aor weather bandh it aor helps protect it isse cracking or blistering aor degradation .
chaat alakar is usually of fluvi , chipboard or OSB falak ( osb = Oriented strand falak , also gyat as strining falak ) of around 18mm moti .
The tarol cotting is lagoo in eke or more coats as a hot drav , heated in a tar ketly , or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued bas aor sealed saah at joints by hot tar - akar it raai cooled , the baari is spread evenly over it .
a prmuk reason liya vifaia of yaa traditional roofs is angama or lack of maintenance where logo or events karna the gravel to be sthrn or removed isse the tar or tarpaper waterproofing , thus exposing it to masam aor sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over samay aor eventually water gets in .
tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre samri soaked or impregnated in tarol .
As baari can not protect tarpaper saatho jaha vey vrdhi vertically from the roof aisa as on parapet divaren or upstands , tarpaper variants are produced saah theek gravel lagoo to the hot tar during the prakm of manufacture aisa that a permanent pret of baari is stuck to it in anurm to give it gari surkha .
tarpapers vary in visha as does the workmanship aor prashan of those applying it to upaj adhek or kaam kamab pranamn .
In kuch sux climates or shaded chatto these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last khoo in relation to the cost of materials kharide and lagat of lata them , however the lagat of modern lillo aisa as epdm raai aiye bas over haal xalo to make unhe more aor adhek affordable .
There are abhi adhek firms supplying modern alternatives and there is generally a growing awareness of their prashan and upbata .
If a lika kurta occur on a chapat roof then damage often goes unnoticed liya long avhi of samay daaran which water penetrates aor soaks the decking and khoi insull and/or dhana beneath it .
inse can seese to mahng damage from the rot jisse praha develops aor if bayn can weaken the chaat structure .
vahi hain also various health risks to logo aor pesu breathing the sache beoon : the garrtra of this swasth rark remains a debated panit .
One frbombl saah maintaining flat roofs is kiya if jala does ghos the arro covering ( be it traditional or a modern jilli ) it can travel a long way pahlo causing dras khsti or paktte into a building jaha it can be dekhi .
Thus it is not asaan to dekhi jaha it is leaking in anuom to repair it .
akar underlying chaat alakar is soaked it praha sags causing a further collection or puddling of water in kiya area aor the problem worsens .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed kampatt diskk which contains ankda .
The naam is an acronym jisse stand for `` kampatt diskk Read-only meror `` .
Computers can read cd-roms , lackin can nahi write on unhe .
CD-ROMs hain popularly prutt to vitr computer tantra , sahit veeo khel and multimedia applications , though khoi ankda can be nandrrt ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
kuch cds , pukra enhanced cds , thaam dano compottr data aor aodowan with the latter capable of being niya on a cd khili , abki data ( aisa as software or ditalit video ) is only usable on a computr ( such as ISO 9660 swro PC CD-ROMs ) .
the pila kitab is the tanki maank kiya defines the format of cd-roms .
One of a set of color-bound books kiya contain the tanke specifications for seb CD swrup , the pila kitab , nirm by sone aor peel , thay the first ectaon of kampett diskk dital aido .
It adapted the format to thaam any roop of anda .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , kalmi name J. K. Rowling , is a angoj novelist , best known as the author of the Harry kumar calpick series .
the kumar books have gained worldwide dhaan , jeet multiple pukar , aor bechi more than 400 million naal .
They have become the best-selling kitab shari in ithes , aor marhu the basis liya a series of films which raai become the highest-grossing filli series in ithes .
Rowling thaa overall swieti on the scri as well as maintaining thanak contol by serving as a producer on the final instalment .
born in Yate , tlastar , roling was working as a shara and bilingual cchrv liya mafee International when dho conceived the vichar liya the hairi kumar shari on a vilat train isse manter to landan in 1990 .
the seven-year period that followed entailed the death of uske mother , talak isse uske pahlo husband and grrbi until roling smapt the first anko in the series , hairi kumar and the paros 's stoon ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 kaa last , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) kaa khoo as 3 supplements to the series .
in 2012 , roling parted saah her ansi aor resumed likhe in the roop of a tragicomedy anko aimed at wask readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling has khaa dho is filal working on dho kaa aimed liya wasko , the anya liya children younger than the Harry Potter daras , and dho expects the latter to be prik first .
roling raai led a `` rags to amri `` life stori , in jisse she progressed isse jeena on raay labh to multi-millionaire status bhitr pach years .
dho is the United kidam 's best-selling lakkk chunki rikar began , saah sales in excess of kaa .
The 2008 sande tammis Rich suchi anaun roling 's saaya at kaa lakho ( $ 798 lakho ) , ranning her as the barva richest stri in the sont kidam .
Forbes ranked roling as the forty-eighth most powerful hasti of 2007 , and samay patricoa namit uske as a runner-up for isko 2007 Person of the Year , noting the social , moral , aor raaatic prana she raai given uske fans .
In aktru 2010 , roling was namit the `` sabse influential stri in Britain '' by leading patricoa smapae .
She has become a notable lacke , supporting such dhart as comic rahta , eke Parent Families , Multiple kathiy sama of Great bretten and lumos ( formerly the children 's unchi sthrr smoh ) .
auburndale is a nuagar in Polk County , Florida , sont raay .
the yankise was 11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the U.S yankise estimates of 2005 , the nuagar thaa a population of 12,381 .
it is part of the lakeland kaa Winter hawan mahag sankhyn Area .
hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as dekhi from sasha dauran Expedition 7 of the International sgec statio .
The nazar , eyewall , aor surrounding rainbands , characteristics of tropical cyclones , hain clearly dras in inse dras isse ssec .
A tivra ccarva is a storm prali characterized by a low-pressure bech surrounded by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that upaj madar hawan aor heavy rain .
tivra cyclones strengthen jajb jala evaporated isse the smander is released as the saturated aeyr udai , resulting in sannnn of jala waah contained in the moist air .
They hain fueled by a different heat mechanism than anya cyclonic windstorms aisa as nor'easters , European windstorms , aor polar lows .
the characteristic kiya separates tropical cyclones isse anya cyclonic prilonin is kiya at khoi unchi in the mahol , the center of a tropical ccarva will be warmer than isko surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` garma camer `` storm prilonin .
The term `` tivra '' refers dano to the chagol utti of yaa prilooinn , which praha roop in tropical regions of the glob , aor to their formation in maritime tivra aerr masses .
the pada `` ccarva '' refers to aisa storms ' cyclonic proti , saah counterclockwise hona prava in the utare Hemisphere and clockwise hona prava in the dhasiin galhar .
the opposite disha of the wind prava is a pranamn of the corriles force .
Depending on its location aor sakti , a tivra cyclone is referred to by names aisa as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tivra storm , cyclonic tufan , tivra depression , and simply ccarva .
While tivra cyclones can upaj extremely satli hawan and malhar barat , they hain bhii smarth to upaj unche waves , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
They develop over large bodies of warm jala , aor lose unko strength if they move over jamin due to increased satah friction aor ghata of the warm smander as an urja corse .
This is why tatiy regions can prapt significant khsti from a tivra cyclone , while adtrdiyo regions hain acrat surtit isse receiving madar hawan .
bhari rains , however , can upaj significant baad inland , aor storm surges can produce extensive tatiy baad up to isse the takha .
Although their effects on insan populations can be devastating , tropical cyclones can relieve sukha sharte .
vey bhii carry heat urja dhur inse the chandit and hatran it toward temperate latitudes , which makes them an important bhag of the global dovelin circulation yantii .
as a pranamn , tivra cyclones shata to maintain suntal in the darti 's bhnnl , and to maintain a relatively stable aor garma tapan worldwide .
anek tropical cyclones develop jajb the dovelin sharte around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere hain anku .
the background parva is modulated by climatological chakra aor patan aisa as the Madden-Julian doln , El kaa Oscillation , and the Atlantic multidecadal doln .
Others form jajb anya types of cyclones acquire tropical vishati .
tivra systems are then moved by purahla winds in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can bhii develop an nazar .
On the other end of the nark , if the conditions around the pralil deteriorate or the tropical cyclone makes landfall , the system weakens aor hakar dissipates .
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of these systems saah varman technology .
kirk Douglas ( born issur danielovitch , ; dismar 9 , 1916 ) is an amri stage aor filli actor , filli nirma aor lakkk .
uske lercori films include aut of the paste ( 1947 ) , chapin ( 1949 ) , ikka in the Hole ( 1951 ) , the kharab aor the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000 ling antra the smadr ( 1954 ) , havas liya jivan ( 1956 ) , Paths of mahima ( 1957 ) , Gunfight at the o.k . Corral ( 1957 ) , the wannix ( 1958 ) , Spartacus ( 1960 ) , Lonely hain the ver ( 1962 ) , saath deno in may ( 1964 ) , The naak of telemark ( 1965 ) aor Tough yaro ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the mataam pursh amri serin legends of all time , making him the highest-ranked living witt on the suchi .
in 1996 , he received the Academy Honorary Award `` liya 50 xalo as a creative aor moral fors in the gati hitrr jatio . ''
he is one of the last surviving aithoon from Hollywood 's `` suhrr aoo '' .
Robert claak `` Bob '' seger ( born May 6 , 1945 ) is an American chatan and fenke singer-songwriter , guitarist aor pianist .
As a locally successful detroit-area clakar , he performed aor ankit as Bob Seger aor the pichla Heard aor bob seger praliy throughout the 1960s .
By the jaldi 1970s , he thad dropped the `` prali '' from his recordings and continued to strive liya broader kamay saahh other various bands .
in 1973 , he put saah The Silver Bullet band , a group of detroit-area santroi , saah zisko he became sabse successful on the national level with the ellam seav goli , ankit live saahh the candi Bullet band in 1975 at cobo ghol in Detroit , Michigan .
In 1976 , he achieved a national bret saahh the stiyi ellam Night Moves .
on uske studio ellam , he also worked extensively with the alabama-based masisi shoals Rhythm khand , jisse appeared on anek of seger 's best-selling singles and ellam .
a roots rocker saah a clask raspy , shouting voice , seger lika and recorded songs kiya dealt with priemium , malao , blue-collar vist and was an exemplar of heartland chatnn .
seger raai recorded many hits , including `` Night Moves , '' `` farr the Page , '' `` we 've mila Tonight , '' `` virdh the hona , '' and Shakedown that thay lika liya bewli phaan cop II aor `` jaise a Rock , '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` heartache tonight . ''
His iconic recording of `` budha samay Rock aor fenke `` was named eke of the Songs of the sadi in 2001 .
saah a career spanning pach saako , seger continues to perform aor record today .
Seger was inducted into the Rock and Roll ghol of Fame in 2004 aor the songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012 .
riharde Milhous nisna ( January 9 , 1913 kaa April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States , serving isse 1969 to 1974 , when he became the tabhi president to ista the daftr .
nisna thaa previously parosa as a rapblonn U.S. prtthin aor sintre isse California and as the 36th vaisa addhs of the sont raay isse 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon was born in yorba Linda , chllrnfiiro .
he greet from Whittier kalag in 1934 aor Duke vishoon sula of vidhi in 1937 , returning to chllirnir to practice vidhi .
he aor his wife , paete nisna , sthrn to vashitn to work for the sanhhy sarkr in 1942 .
he subsequently served in the sont States Navy dauran World hudd II .
Nixon thay nicv in cllaronri to the haas of prtthin in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger hiss mamla sthtp his reputation as a leading anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence .
he thay the karsyal mate of dwita D. anaar , the rapblonn parti addhiya nominee in the 1952 chana .
Nixon served for eight xalo as vice president .
he waged an unsuccessful addhisya campaign in 1960 , narrowly khone to jaan F. kende , aor lost a race liya rajv of California in 1962 .
in 1968 , he ran again liya the presidency and was nicv .
halki nisna initially escalated America 's baarde in the nitan hudd , he subsequently ended U.S. baarde in 1973 .
nisna 's vike to the logo 's gantar of chhin in 1972 opened raaic sandh between the dho rashra , aor he initiated kaa aor the Anti-Ballistic masil Treaty with the sovet Union the same year .
Domestically , uske prashan generally embraced netyo that transferred sakti isse vashitnn to the raay .
among anya baate , he shurm pahlo to lado karte and illegal dawaon , imposed wage and price nitran , enforced desegregation of kuch dhasinn schools , and established the Environmental surkha Agency .
Though he presided over the lunar landings shurt with aplo 11 , he scaled waps manned space khoje .
he thay re-elected by a bulknn in 1972 .
Nixon 's second pada saw an arab aala embargo , the ista of uske vaisa addhs , Spiro agnew , and a continuing series of khulas prachy the Watergate kand and other misconduct by saany of the prashan .
the kand escalated , costing nisna much of uske raaatic support , and on August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the phans of lagch certain mhoooog aor removal isse office .
bada uske resignation , he controversially prapt a pardon issued by his successor , jardl ghata .
In rintem , nisna 's work as an elder statesman , authoring anek books aor undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a debilitating strok on April 18 , 1994 , aor died four days later at the aoo of 81 .
{ { infobox Senator
the Dominican Republic annexation sandhi caused kadwa contention between addhs Grant and sen. Sumner .
bredi 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to American samra in the caribbean aor fearful that annexation hota seese to the conquest of the neighboring black gantar of hati , became kaal kiya bhathar lay piche the sandhi , and that meen close to the president saza in the corruption .
As chairman of the sinte vidhe Relations kamit , Sen. Sumner initially withheld his raai on the sandhi on janri 18 , 1870 .
sen. sumner thaa been lika sucha from shauk Secretary of raay , bancroft device , that u.s . Naval ships were hona prutt to protect addhs kaa .
sen. Sumner 's kamit voted virdho annexation aor at sen. kaa suggestion and quite possibly to shej the parti from an ugly lado or the addhs from embarrassment , the Senate aagt isko debate of the sandhi behind closed dwara in kariila session .
President grant persisted aor bhaja sanse to Congress in hasan of annexation on kuch 14 , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
in bandh session , Sen. sumner spoke aut against the treaty ; warnng that there hota be difficulty saahh the vidhe naroi , noting the dirlic vidro that took plale on the dwap , aor the risk kiya the swatta of Haiti , pahan by the sont States in 1862 , would be lost .
sumner stated that Grant 's uppg of the u.S. neeve as a protte was a ulnn of anthriy vidhi and unconstitutional .
Finally , on juon 30 , 1870 the treaty was voted on by the Senate aor pifal to gain the jarri 2/3 bhuut for sandhi doohi .
The following day , President grant , feeling gadri by Sen. Sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa close dost J. Lothrop Motley , Ambassador to Britain .
By ptatad , sumner 's neeji dusmon to the president was palcic knowledge , aor he blamed the Secretary of raay for failing to have resigned , blki than let Grant have uske way .
The dho men , mitro aabak then , cooled into kadwa enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful kiya grant meant to acquire sento domon somehow , sumner diya a fiercely naun waka accusing the addhs of usurpation aor babcock of unethical conduct .
already , President grant , supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton machli , thaa initiated a campaign to depose sumner isse the addcht of the sinte vidhe sandh kamit .
halki Sumner stated he thay an `` prashan man '' , in addition to having roka Grant 's Dominican gantar sandhi attempt , sumner thaa prrat Grant 's full repeal of the karyal of daftar adhinn , avert grant 's naman of sinder stiver to u.S. cchav of Treasury , and marhu a nirtar harassing fors pushing Reconstruction policies teaj than Grant thaa been willing to go .
grant resented sumner 's badpan of manner , as khoo .
batai akar that sumner kiya not believe in the baell , the president is supposed to have said kiya he thay not chaket : `` he did n't likhe it . ''
As the darar between grant aor sumner increased , kaa swast began to decline .
jajb the 42nd U.S. corgens convened on March 4 , 1871 , Senators affiliated saahh President grant , known as kaa kaa voted to oust sen. Sumner isse the sinte vidhe sandh kamit addcht .
caaar ethics ( also corporate achar ) is a roop of applied achar or pesher achar that examines netak principles aor moral or netak problems kiya utaa in a caaar parva .
it applies to all aspects of caaar conduct and is pranic to the conduct of individuals and sunnr organizations .
caaar achar has dano normative and descriptive aaman .
As a corporate practice aor a career specialization , the fillad is primarily normative .
lada attempting to samze caaar behavior employ warnat vidhi .
the range and maatr of caaar netak mudde reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing bartav saahh non-economic chiyten .
beaj in caaar ethics accelerated dramatically dauran the 1980s aor 1990s , dano within major corporations and bhitr academia .
liya example , aage most prmuk corporations prahr unko pratha to non-economic maana antra headings such as achar kood aor social jimar charters .
Adam Smith khaa , `` logo of the vahi wapar seldom mile saah , bhii for merriment and diversion , laciin the conversation ends in a dhattr against the public , or in kuch contrivance to hathe prices . ''
Governments upag laws aor regulations to point business bartav in kaya they perceive to be faade dishiner .
Ethics implicitly regulates areas aor details of bartav kiya suth beyond governmental contol .
the emergence of large corporations saah simit sandh and swashati to the smandon in which they operate accelerated the development of formal achar regimes .
A barna is a parkar of chote to flesh or skin caused by heat , vido , rasan , garhan , or radiation .
sabse burns affect only the sathi sikne ( gyat as superficial or pahlo degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do nahi involve the full moti of the skin ( known as partial moti or second upadi ) .
rarely all layers of the skin or deeper tissues , aisa as masisme or bone can be injured in which mamla the burn is either full moti ( tisra degree ) or choth degree .
the treatment jarri depends on the garrrta of the burn .
sathi burns sansht managed saah choti adhek than saral pain killers abki major burns may aakta prolonged upaar in specialized barna centers .
colling saah tap jala may shota pain and ghti damage however if exposure is prolonged it may pranamin in low body tapan .
Partial moti burns may aakta safai with saboon aor jala followed by dressings .
Blisters chahe typically be left unbroken .
Full moti burns praha require surgical treatments such as skin kalmi aor extensive burns praha aakta visal amount of intravenous fluids .
the sabse common jatooi of burns are samnin to infection .
abki visal burns can be fatal , adhunk treatments viksit in the pichla 50 xalo have significantly improved the outcomes , especially in children aor yag adults .
Globally prachy 11 million people talas chikta upaar aor 300,000 logo die isse burns .
In the sont raay , of those admitted to a burn bech , approximately 4 % die from their choto .
the long pada outcome is primarily samnin to the size of barna and the aoo of the person effected .
the Atlantic smander , not including artic aor Antarctic regions
inse veeo thay liya by the crom of expedition 29 on board the iss .
The pass starts isse baae north-east of the dewp of nilfanded over the North Atlantic smander to contrl afri , over South Sudan .
the atalac sander is the second-largest of the sanaar 's oceanic divisions .
saah a total chartel of about , it kaar lagch 20 pritt of the darti 's satah aor about 29 percent of its water satah chartel .
the first bhag of its name refers to atalls of yuni mythology , making the atalac the `` smadr of Atlas '' .
the oldest gyat mention of `` atalac '' is in the histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( hdt . 1.202.4 ) : atalit thalassa ( Greek : kaa kaa ; angrij : smadra of atalls ) .
The pada Ethiopic Ocean , nikla isse Ethiopia , thay applied to the southern atalac as late as the mid-19th century .
pahlo europeans discovered other maaaar , the term `` smander '' itself was synonymous saah the waters beyond the wasnich of jiblert kiya we abhi know as the atalac .
the early yonon believed inse ocean to be a gigantic nadi encircling the sanaar .
the atalac Ocean occupies an elongated , s-shaped basin extending longitudinally between uorysha aor afri to the east , aor the americas to the west .
As one ghatak of the interconnected wash smander , it is kant in the north to the Arctic smander ( jisse is sometimes maano a sea of the Atlantic ) , to the prast smander in the southwest , the Indian smander in the southeast , aor the Southern Ocean in the south .
( anya prahyan describe the atalac as extending southward to ataric . )
the equator subdivides it into the North atalac Ocean aor South Atlantic Ocean .
Due to unko long-term persistence , aor the need for a advit pachara in issuing forecasts aor chatin , tivra cyclones aor subtropical cyclones hain diye names according to niti ( see Tropical cyclone naaanna ) .
the following hain suchio from which these tivra aor upsh cyclone names are nikla .
White layit is dispersed by a primp into the rango of the optical spectrum .
the dras nark is the portion of the elarctitinn spectrum that is dras to ( can be detected by ) the human nazar .
elarctit radiation in inse range of wavelengths is pukra visible light or base layit .
A typical human eye hoga respond to wavelengths isse prachy 390 to 700 nm .
in sharte of rvrti , this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa thz .
a light-adapted nazar generally raai isko adacht swashati at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ) , in the grean pradesh of the atpical nark ( see : luminosity function ) .
The nark karta nahi , however , contain seb the rango kiya the insan aakhe aor brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors such as lulai , or jamin variations aisa as magenta , are absent , liya udarnn , cumi vey can be bana only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
Colors containing only one wavelength hain bhii pukra pure rango .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical khide `` , the pradesh of the elactictenne nark which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the darti 's atmosphere .
an example of inse phenomenon is kiya saaf aeyr scatters blon light adhek than red wavelengths , aor so the midday sky appears blol .
the optical window is bhii called the visible khide cumi it overlaps the insan drasy response nark .
the nikat indrrde ( NIR ) khide suth baase aat of the insan dushi , as khoo as the Medium wavelength ir ( mwir ) khide and the long wavelength or Far indrrde ( LWIR or FIR ) khide though other pesu may anu unhe .
anek prati can dekhi layit saahh barbant bahaar the `` drasy spectrum , '' jisse is parah in terms of human vision .
machooi aor many anya insects can detect ultraviolet light , jisse helps unhe find marad in flowers .
Plant pratij kiya nirra on kiet paran may owe reproductive success to unko roop in ultraviolet layit , blki than kasa rangnn they appear to inson .
pashyon , too , can dekhi into the ultraviolet ( kaa nm ) , aor kuch have sex-dependent markings on unko plumage that are dras tabhi in the paragi daura .
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet daura , however , can nahi see red light or khoi other reddish wavelengths .
machomi ' visible nark ends at about 590nm , baae before the nargi wavelengths start .
pashyon , however , can see some redd wavelengths , laciin not as many as inson .
Zebras ( or ) hain anek prati of afri equids ( ghoda family ) sont by unko distinctive black aor white dharnn .
Their dharnn come in different patan , unique to each individual .
They hain generally social pesu kiya seav in choti harems to visal herds .
napans their closest reshore , ghode and asses , zebras have never marhu truly domesticated .
There are tinn species of zebras : the maidan jabra , the kaa 's jabra and the mountain zebra .
the maidan jabra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , laciin kaa 's zebra is the sole prati of subgenus dolichohippus .
the latter resembles an gadha , to which it is closely samnin , while the purva dho hain more horse-like .
All tinn belong to the genus equus , saah with other jeena equids .
the unique dharnn of zebras make unhe one of the animals sabse prabit to logo .
vey occur in a kismo of habitats , aisa as grasslands , savannas , woodlands , thorny scrublands , kyu , aor tatiy hills .
However , various anthropogenic caron have thaa a kathor impact on zebra populations , in particular shakar liya skins aor vaaas vinsh .
kaa 's jabra and the mountain jabra are endangered .
While plains zebras hain much adhek plentiful , one subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the latt 19th century kaa halki vahi is filal a yagana , called the Quagga prottet , kiya aims to nsal zebras kiya hain phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called pranan waps .
bairi swath , born bairi Eugene kartar ( kaa ) , was an American composer aor singer-songwriter .
a two-time Grammy pukrar -winner gyat for uske distinctive baaas voice and romatic image , White 's mataam kama aaye in the 1970s as a solo sinar and saah the priemimm Unlimited arkara , crafting anek enduring attm , drgnd , and disko songs aisa as uske dho biggest hits , `` You 're the pahlo , the Last , My subk `` aor `` ca n't Get Enough of apna Love , Babe . ''
saah saahh ishak haze , White is maano by allmusic.com as a pioneer of disko music in the early 1970s .
dauran the corse of his karir in the music caaar , swath hasil 106 sunha albums worldwide , 41 of jisse also attained pletinem akat .
swath thaa 20 sunha and 10 pletinem singles , saah worldwide bakri in excess of 100 million , according to critics ed hogne aor vedh kergan .
uske influences shaml reva . James cloved , rarr charlas , arthia fricolin plals Motown caloom The Supremes , the haar Tops aor Marvin gaye .
annji Jolie ( , born Angelina Jolie Voight ; June 4 , 1975 ) is an amri aahiti , film nidsk , aor screenwriter .
dho has prapt an Academy pukar , two serin Actors gill Awards , and tinn suhrr Globe pukra , aor was named holid 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 aor 2011 .
goli promotes humanitarian kanari , and is noted for uske karya saah shartnoo as a khaas Envoy aor former Goodwill Ambassador for the sont rashar unchi Commissioner liya shartoon ( unhcr ) .
dho raai often marhu cited as the sanaar 's `` sabse khubrut '' woman , a sherak for jisse dho has prapt substantial media dhaan .
goli bana her serin deybu as a chailadd alongside her pita jon vout in lookin ' to milenge Out ( 1982 ) , lackin her film karir began in schai a shaq bada saah the low-budget utpann Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
uske pahlo leading role in a major filli thay in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical talvin films zarg Wallace ( 1997 ) and gia ( 1998 ) , and jeet an Academy pukar liya behatin Supporting aahiti liya uske performance in the drama Girl , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved chaude kitri after her portrayal of veeo game heroine larla cref in laura Croft : mabra redrer ( 2001 ) , and sthpt herself among the highest-paid actresses in holid with the sequel the palna of jivan ( 2003 ) .
dho continued uske action sthrr karir with mr. & Mrs. smith ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated commercial successes to kaa received further critical acclaim liya uske prashan in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and changeling ( 2008 ) , which arj her a naman liya an Academy Award liya behatin Actress .
Jolie bana uske directorial debu saah the wartime drama in the jamin of rakt aor medu ( 2011 ) .
Divorced isse airtoon jani liele Miller aor beli bob thrnn , Jolie abhi jivana saahh karta bread Pitt , in a sandh notable for fervent midaa attention .
Jolie aor pitt have tinn biological children aor tinn adopted children .
a natural mahra idpit by the apadn of differentially weathered rock in jebel Kharaz , Jordan
apadn is the prakm by jisse marda and rock hain removed isse the darti 's satah by exogenetic processes aisa as hona or water flow , aor tab transported aor deposited in other sthai .
abki apadn is a pratic process , human krynan have increased by 10-40 tammis the rate at which apadn is occurring globally .
excessive apadn kanari samnsy aisa as marulann , decreases in agricultural utda due to jamin degradation , sedimentation of waterways , and ecological patan due to ghata of the nutrient samdh apar soil layers .
jala and wind apadn are abhi the two primary causes of jamin degradation ; combined , vey hain jimer for 84 % of degraded acreage , making excessive apadn eke of the most significant global environmental samnsy .
Industrial agriculture , deforestation , sadke , anthropogenic climate change and shari sprawl are amongst the sabse significant insan krenian in liaa to their effect on stimulating apadn .
however , there hain anek available alternative land use practices kiya can curtail or seema apadn , such as chaat -building , no-till agriculture , and revegetation of denuded soils .
jarsi Shore is an amri vasta talvin series jisse bhaga on amveti from December 3 , 2009 to December 20 , 2012 in the United raay .
The shari phalo the lives of arth housemates bita unko garman at the jarsi Shore in the u.S. state of nayi jarsi .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the thanda northeast winter to mixi Beach , saah Season 3 returning to the jarsi shore .
the fourth season , filma in itli , premiered on agst 4 , 2011 .
The show lauta for a paavo season , at seaside Heights on January 5 , 2012 .
the paavo ritu finale aired on kuch 15 , 2012 .
on March 19 , 2012 , MTV pushi that the shari hota wapsi for their sixth season .
on agst 30 , 2012 , amveti announced that the shari hoga end bada the chate ritu , jisse premiered on aktru 4 .
the shari finale aired on dismar 20 , 2012 .
the dikha debuted amid visal amounts of vivad regarding the uppg of the sabd `` guido / guidette , '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes , and scrutiny isse locals because the cast saxy were nahi residents of the chartela .
The shari garnered record ratings liya MTV , making it the network 's most viewed shari telecast ever .
the shari ' cast have bhii marhu credited saah introducing adviti lexicon aor vassh into amri lercoi santi .
the vishooin of shego aor the vishoon of Oklahoma hain among the shank santhon that have thaa classes or samnoonn prrchy the dikha .
in 2010 , the cast of jarsi shore thay namit on barba walters ' 10 sabse fascinating People suchi , aor the shari has chunki marhu exported to dozens of deso wipei .
vahi hain anek remakes of the dikha in anya countries , with dho set in the sont Kingdom ; the well gyat geordie Shore , set in niscal upon Tyne , inglidd .
the anya is the ghatoon , the Welsh equivalent , jisse is filmed aor niyat in cardif .
the tabhi anya official remak of the dikha is kaa shore , niyat in kaa , Spain .
right
United raay territory is khoi extent of pradesh under the jurisdiction of the sanhiyn government of the sont raay , sahit seb waters ( around islands or mapdii tracts ) and seb u.s . naval bartan .
the United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights liya exploring , exploiting , conserving , aor managing its territory .
This extent of territory is seb the chartela belonging to , and under the dominion of , the United States sanhhy government ( which includes tracts lying at a distance isse the country ) liya prashak aor other udsey .
the United raay total territory shaml a upcham of raaatic vinaan .
the u.S. government is a sarki saah delegated shatiya antra the sont raay Constitution .
`` the shatiyon nahi prativet to the sont raay by the Constitution , nor nisha by it to the raay , are surkit to the raay respectively , or to the logo '' by the Tenth amendment .
Terminator 3 : vrdhi of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 vigaan fiction karve filli directed by Jonathan mostow aor starring arnd swaaner , Nick stahl , clean danes and Kristanna Loken .
it is the second sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ) .
bada Skynet fails to maar saara Connor before uske bete is born aor to maar John himself as a chailad , it sends waps another tarmen , the t-x , in an attempt to wipe aut as many prithor ahrcoron as possible .
inse includes jaan 's future biwi , but not jaan kood as his whereabouts hain unknown to ckinent .
John 's life is placed in khatre when the t-x accidentally finds him .
A cord of lacdi
The cord is a kayi of mea of dry aage used in kanda and the sont raay to mea adhan and pulpwood .
A cord is the rashi of wood that , jajb `` crem aor khoo stowed '' ( arranged so tukde hain aligned , smantar , touching and compact ) , occupies a aage of .
This corresponds to a khoo stacked woodpile unchi , long , and deep ; or khoi anya wasth of linear mea that yields the vahi aage .
The naam cord sansht aata isse the uppg of a cord or strining to mea it .
The , is an 8-bit handa veeo game device viksit and manufactured by nento .
it was released in japani on , in North amrraa in , aor in uoriyp on .
it is the pahlo handl konol in the khel ladke line , and thay nirm by gunpei yokoi aor nento shadh & Development 1 kaa same staaf jau had designed the Game & dekhe series as khoo as several leoria khel liya the Nintendo Entertainment System .
redesigned versions were released in 1996 aor 1998 , in the roop of Game ladke jeab , aor Game Boy layit ( Japan tabhi ) , crash .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's duori handa praliy following the Game & dekhe series introduced in , aor it sont shuvien from dano the nento entertainment prali and khel & dekhe .
It thay originally bundled saah the pahle game teniris .
as part of the fourth pedhe of eeming , the Game ladke competed with the sega khel Gear , Atari Lynx , and the turboexpress .
despite yaa anya technologically sharth handl consoles , the Game ladke was a tremendous kama .
the khel Boy and its successor , the Game ladke ranga , have both sont bechi 118.69 lakho ikii wipsy .
upon isko reezl in the sonte States , it sold its sunnr shipment of one lakho ikii bhitr sapath .
The sanaar Trade bech is a jatl of imarte antra construction in nimnar Manhattan , New yaak City , sont raay , replacing an pahlo jatl of saat buildings with the vahi naam on the same sayit .
The asli World Trade bech prishit landmark juda minare , which opened on April 4 , 1973 aor yau nasht in the September 11 attacks of 2001 , saah saahh 7 sanaar wapar bech .
the anya buildings in the complex yhoo damaged in the hamle , and unko ruins you hakar demolished .
the sayit is hona rebuilt with five nayi skyscrapers and a marrolor to those maare in the hamle .
, only eke skyscraper has marum smapt ; the anya haar are expected to be smapt pahlo 2020 .
One World wapar Center will be the seese building liya the nayi complex , reaching more than 100 khaninn at its purtna .
It became the tallest building in nayi York nuagar on apryl 30 , 2012 , aor is expected to be smapt by 2013 .
a sixth minar is pricat confirmation .
at the samay of unko purtna , the asli 1 World wapar bech ( the utar Tower ) and 2 World Trade bech ( the South minar ) , gyat collectively as the `` juda minare '' , were the tallest imatre in the sanaar .
The other imarte shaml 3 WTC ( the Marriott World Trade bech ) , 4 wtc , 5 wtc , 6 WTC , and 7 wtc .
seb of these imarte yaud nirm between 1975 aor 1985 .
the cost for the nirman was $ 400 million ( $ in doller ) .
the jatl thay stith in the dila of nayi yar City 's shar financial jila and contained 13.4 million varar feet ( 1.24 lakho m2 ) of office seep .
the World wapar bech anve a fire on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 aor a dakati on , 1998 .
in 1998 , the Port phikar decided to privatize the sanaar Trade bech , patte the buildings to a neeji compnni to manage , aor awarded the lease to silverstein gune in .
On the morning of sitabar 11 , 2001 , Al-Qaeda sandh hijackers uday dho boing 767 jets into the complex , eke into each tower , in a sannit atwadei arman .
bada burning liya 56 mintes , the dhasin minar ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour bada by the utar Tower ( 1 ) , with the attacks on the sanaar wapar Center resulting in 2,753 mauto .
Falling debris isse the minare , combined saah fires that the malba initiated in several surrounding imarte , led to the aanic or pura collapse of seb the anya imarte in the jatl and caused antrik damage to ten other visal structures in the surrounding area .
The process of clepn and rakve at the sanaar Trade Center sayit took eight mahino .
over the following years , yonna liya a rebuilt sanaar Trade bech took roop .
the first nayi bhann at the site thay 7 sanaar Trade Center , which khole in .
The Lower minthe vikas Corporation ( LMDC ) , established in to oversee the punman process , organized pritiyo to choone a sayit yagana and memorial denain .
Memory Foundations , designed by deniyl libeskind , thay chant as the nupun plan , but this went through substantial pravatin in denain .
The nayi sanaar Trade bech complex hoga shaml eke sanaar wapar Center , tinn other high-rise daftr towers , and the nasal sitabar 11 Memorial & Museum .
sein gibrill kyu
San bernardino Mountains , with mt . sein Gorgonio in the agri and Big Bear jhel in the fushri .
The Transverse siemon are a group of mountain ranges of southern chllriiir , in the prast coast siemon physiographic region in utar amriaa .
the antpust Ranges begin at the dhasinn smapt of the chllrnfira coast siemon aor lie between santa barba and sein Diego counties .
vey derive the naam anpustt siemon due to their East-West anvicas , banana unhe anpustt to the samay North-South orientation of sabse of chllirnfar 's coastal mountains .
Periodic table with electron shells
An ilcrlitn shewl may be vichar of as an sasha followed by electrons around an ano 's nucleus .
the closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( bhii pukra `` k shell '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shewl '' ( or `` l shewl '' ) , then the `` 3 shewl '' ( or `` m shewl '' ) , aor so on dhur aor dhur isse the cendrak .
The shewl letters k , l , M , ... , used in the x-ray notation , hain varmala .
Each shewl can contain only a ficd cramak of electrons : the 1st shell can hold up to dho electrons , the 2nd shell can thaam up to eight electrons , the 3rd shell can hold up to 18 , aor 4th shewl can tham up to 32 aor so on .
Since electrons hain electrically achit to the nucleus , an ano 's electrons hoga generally occupy outer shells tabhi if the more inner shewl have already marum completely bhar by other electrons .
However , inse is not a sakt aakta : ano may have dho or even tinn incomplete bahari shells .
( dekhi madelung niem for more details . )
liya an sthatran of kyon electrons mood in these shewl dekhi ilcrlitnn configuration .
the electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shewl ) determine the rasino gune of the ano ; it is pukra the valence shewl .
pratok shell consists of eke or more subshells , and pratok subshell consists of eke or adhek atomic orbitals .
vickie Lynn Marshall ( kaa Hogan ; nambar 28 , 1967 kaa February 8 , 2007 ) , known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith , thay an American maal , aahiti , and television ittc .
Smith first gained laccaria in Playboy , becoming the 1993 sannie of the Year .
dho modeled liya clothing compannon , sahit Guess jins aor Lane brent .
smith dropped aut of high sula aor was shada in 1985 .
uske highly publicized duori marriage to oil caaar mogul , J. Howard Marshall , 62 xalo uske varth , resulted in atkele that dho shadud the octogenarian for uske dhan , jisse dho asvec .
following marsha 's mota , Smith began a lengthy legal battle over a share of his estate .
uske mamla , marsha v. marsha , reached the U.S. Supreme adalt on a sawal of federal chastar , and again on a question of dipana court authority ( abhi pukra Stern v. marsha ) .
smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , florrrr ghol rumm as a result of an overdose of prescription drugs .
bhitr the phaila six months of uske life , smith thay the foss of a naciran dabae coverage surrounding the death of uske bete , deniyl , and the paternity aor catdii batll over uske newborn bete , Dannielynn .
the is one denomination of Japanese yen .
The varman design thay first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters gyat as the `` nayi script `` , aor were bhii minted isse 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' japani characters .
five-yen sikke date to 1870 ( jajb , due to the much uchar value of the yen , vey were minted in gold ) .
The front of the sikka depicts a rais plant growing out of the jala , saahh `` pach yen '' written in kanji ; the waps is stamped saah `` japani '' and the year of samm , also in kanji , separated by sprouts of a pepad .
the tinn grekic tatv of the sikka represent krshi aor fisheries , the key tatv of the Japanese first-sector economy .
around a hole , vahi is a gear kiya represents industry .
it is the tabhi japani coin in paran to lack arbi numerals on either phans .
TLC is an amri ladki smoh whose rangal spanned R & B , hep hoap , attm , drgnd , and new jokar sula .
Originally consisting of singar tionne `` t-boz '' wantalas , rapper lisa `` bayn nazar '' lopes aor sinar Rozonda `` chilli '' Thomas , the smoh found unprecedented success in the 1990s abki bhii enduring a shari of spats with the vidhi , each anya , and the smoh 's rakar label .
initially , tlc hasil commercial kama following the release of unko debu album Ooooooohhh ...
on the tlc tep , jisse bechi 6 lakho copies wipyi .
however , it thay their second album , crazysexycool , kiya catapulted the smoh to superstar akat .
CrazySexyCool gari on to be certified diamond by the riaa kaa a first for a mada group , aor hakar bechi 23 million copies worldwide .
Five xalo later , the smoh released unko tisra ellam fanmail , which became the smoh 's first ellam to debut at cramak one aor sold adhek than 11 lakho naal wipyi .
the subsequent tour following fanmails reezl became the highest grossing daura of seb time by a female band .
in 2002 , lisa `` bayn nazar '' lopes died in a car accident in hordus .
Seven mahino later , t-boz aor chilli released the smoh 's fourth ellam 3d , jisse bechi 2 million copies worldwide , it prishit unreleased vocals isse Left nazar .
bilorbid patricoa ranked tlc as eke of the greatest musical trios .
between 1992 and 2003 , the band sachint teen shers teen singles , four cramak one singles , haar multi-platinum ellam , and haar grami pukra .
at the smapt of 1999 , tlc was crem as the satva sabse kamab act of the 1990s by bilarbid .
in 2008 , the smoh was inducted into the All Time hot 100 clakar ghol of kitri by the vahi magazine , at 56th plale .
That saal it was also listed as the # 25 r & b/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years .
tlc raai bechi adhek than 65 lakho records wisy and vey hain crem as the duori behtan selling mada smoh of seb samay , and the behatin selling maada r & B smoh of all samay .
In 2012 , tlc ranked 12th on vh1 's 100 Greatest malao in muck , hona crem the number one all girl smoh on kiya suchi .
Tarzan is a 1999 amri anaemed adventure film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation aor vitra by walte dijne raver .
The 37th film in the walte dijne anaemed clask , it is based on the stori tarjan of the Apes by adgar rais baroj , aor is the only major gati hitrr sankan of the stori tarjan property to be animated .
nisdh by criss Buck and Kevin lima saahh a screenplay by Tab marfi , Bob Tzudiker , aor noni swath , tarjan features the aave of toni Goldwyn , Minnie dravrr , Glenn Close , aor Rosie o'donnell saah Brian Blessed , talar henriksen , vena nati , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It thay the last bona fide hit before the dijne slump of the jaldi 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 wipsy , outgrossing its purtive Hercules ( 1997 ) aor mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the samay of its reezl , its utpann budget of $ 130 lakho bana it the sabse mahng aneemed filli ever bana , aabak awal by Disney 's apna $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It thay also the pahlo Disney anaemed feature to open at # 1 chunki pocahontas .
This was the last major box daftar kamay of the Disney Renaissance .
aala Platform p-51 off the brayay coast is a semi-submersible mach .
Oil platform Mittelplate in the utar sea
an aal moch , ( offshore platform or colloquially aal rega ) is a visal dhana saahh suvithon to drrlil wells , to extract and process oil and pratic gass , aor to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore liya refining and marketing .
in anek mamle , the platform contains suviani to haas the workforce as well .
Depending on the halto , the moch may be ficd to the smander floor , may consist of an crutrim dewp , or may float .
rimat subsea kuon may bhii be kant to a mach by flow lines and by umbilical connections .
yaa subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea kuon , or of one or adhek manifold ceeoo liya anek wells .
Slaughter is the hatya of animals , usually that of rehlu pshunn liya khana .
the animals sabse commonly slaughtered for food are chapn , jala buffalo ( liya beef aor veal ) , seep , goats ( liya mamne aor matnn ) , pigs ( liya poak ) , ghode ( liya horse maans ) , and fowl , largely chickens , turkeys , aor ducks and increasingly machli from the aquaculture industry ( machli farming ) .
the swath haas , the addhs 's official nivas and center of the prashan
Under the sont raay Constitution , the President of the sont States is the sair of raay aor sair of government of the sont raay .
as mukhy of the kariila shakh and sair of the federal sarki as a purre , the prissi is the utcham raaatic daftr in the sonte States by influence and manta .
The president is bhii the commander-in-chief of the sont raay haraad shatiyan .
the addhcs is indirectly nicv to a four-year pada by an Electoral College ( or by the haas of prtthin chahe the Electoral College asal to pukra an absolute bhuut of maat to any person ) .
Since the autaan of the Twenty-second amendment to the sont raay Constitution in 1951 , no person may be elected President adhek than twice , aor no eke who has parosa adhek than two xalo of a pada to which someone else was nicv may be nicv more than once .
Upon the mota , ista , or hatna isse office of an lalima addhs , the Vice addhs assumes the daftr .
the addhs must be at least 35 xalo of aoo and a `` natural born '' citizen of the United States .
inse suchi shaml tabhi those wantoon jau were sworn into daftar as addhs following the ratification of the sont States Constitution , which took effect on kuch 4 , 1789 .
liya amri netoo before this ratification , see addhs of the mapdii corgens .
the suchi does nahi shaml khoi ectiting Presidents antra the twenty-fifth Amendment to the sont raay Constitution .
There have been 43 logo sworn into daftr , aor 44 presidencies , as Grover cloved parosa dho non-consecutive sharte aor is counted khraada as dano the 22nd aor 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as addhs , haar died in office of pratic kanari ( William hanir harsion , zachary tell , varvan G. harding , and Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four you assassinated ( abrah lincoln , James A. Garfield , William mckinley , and jaan F. kende ) and one resigned ( Richard nisna ) .
George vashitnn , the pahlo president , was adatan in 1789 bada a sarvat vote of the choni College .
leve hanir Harrison karhh the shortest samay in daftr with 32 deno in 1841 , and froniin D. rujvelt spent the longest with over twelve xalo , lackin died shortly into uske choth term in 1945 .
he is the tabhi president to serve adhek than two sharte , aor a swankh amendment , affecting presidents after Harry trom , thay passed to seema the number of times an wiqtit can be nicv president .
Andrew jassan , the seventh addhs , thay the first to be nicv by meen of all classes in 1828 bada sabse kann barring non-land-owners isse voting yhoo repealed .
Warren Harding thay the pahlo nicv after malaon gained voting adhro in 1920 .
ithes records haar rastyo kaa jaan Q Adams , Rutherford B. haze , bennnn Harrison aor zarg W. Bush kaa who khoya the lercoria vote but assumed office .
jaan F. kende has marhu the tabhi addhs of Roman chalic asta , aor the current addhs , Barack Obama , is the first addhs of afri descent .
anek firearms with detachable suppressors , isse shers to bottom : an Uzi , an ar-15 , A heckler & koch USP rentic , a beretta 92fs , aor a sig mahhar .
Bolt action rimfire rifle saah suppressor
awm-f snipir rail saah salaan suppressor .
a suppressor , sound suppressor , or dhani mattrr , is a antar salaan to or part of the barul of a firearm which reduces the amount of rava , aor praha the amount of muzzle flash , utnan by faaring the weapon .
A suppressor can be used both saah a firearm aor with sepiit air ganne .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , inse pada is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the dhani of a prash , especially eke moving faster than the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
using a suppressor in long uldha suthing ( i.e . greater than 300 mitr ) can lessen , or retard , the report at the moment of praaav , aor banan the impression of silence nikat the target .
The rava sona nikat the muzzle as a prash leaves the barrel , though subdued , is nahi muk at seb .
A suppressor is praha a metal cylinder saah internal mechanisms to reduce the dhani of faaring by slowing the escaping propellant gas aor sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet .
Early suppressors were nirm around the beginning of the 20th sadi by several inventors .
amri inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused saah hiram stavs khat , Hiram prssi 's father , and the aarika of the khat antar gaane ) , is credited with inventing aor selling the first commercially kamab maal circa 1902 ( patented 30 kuch 1909 ) .
Maxim diya uske device the trademarked name khat silencer .
the mafar liya atric combustion engines was developed in smantar with the firearm suppressor by khat in the jaldi 20th century , using many of the vahi catcom to provide quieter-running engines ( in many uoripy countries automobile mufflers are still pukra silencers ) .
the sabd silencer in sandhr to gun suppressor remains in faili uppg , halki it raai since fallen aut of favor saah kuch , vishar among the firearms udgo , being replaced saah the more vasth accurate pada sound suppressor or base suppressor , cuyi a `` dhani suppressor '' kurta nahi `` khasi '' any hathir , blki it eliminates muzzle flash aor reduces the sonk dawa of a firearm discharging .
Common usage aor u.S. vidan bhasa favor the historically pahlo term , silencer .
In u.S. law , the terms `` firearm muffler '' and `` firearm silencer '' hain synonymous .
suppressors yaud regularly prutt by aezen of the sont raay daftar of Strategic sewan , jau favored the newly designed unche maank hdm .22 long rail pistol during sanaar hudd ii .
oss nidsk William jasser `` genle Bill '' doon demonstrated the pistl liya President Franklin D. rujvelt at the White House .
according to OSS research mukhy sthil Lovell , doon ( an old and visewia dost of the President ) thay harra into the owal Office , where rujvelt thay dictating a letter .
abki rujvelt smapt uske sansee , doon turned uske waps and fired teen shots into a sandbag he thaa brought with ussy , hogt kaya he had done aor haat the dhorpan ganne to the astonished addhs .
the British soe ( khaas purahlan kariiaa ) welrod hatya pistol saah an ahan suppressor thay also used by the amri OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied uoriyp during the Second World War .
beatrice `` bea '' Arthur ( may 13 , 1922 kaa April 25 , 2009 ) was an amri actress , comedienne , aor sinar jinke karir spanned saat saako .
arthr hasil fame as the character Maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms seb in the privar and Maude , and as dorth zbornak on the 1980s sitcom the Golden ladkoyan , jitna ammi pukra for both roles .
a stet actress dano before aor bada her talvin success , dho won the toni pukra for behatin Featured aahite in a musical for her prashan as virr Charles in the original daala of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 japani 3D computer-animated filli based on the tekken veeo game series , produced by dital frontier and vitra by Asmik ikka entertainment in samnh with Bandai entertainment .
the filli premiered in utar America by Bandai entertainment on julay 26 , 2011 , aor in Australia on juli 27 , 2011 in a special vish one-off serinn .
It thay released on sitabar 3 , 2011 in Japan .
the filli thay released on Blu-ray diskk on nambar 22 , 2011 liya USA , aor December 1 , 2011 liya japani .
This film was bhii released on dvd on nambar 22 , 2011 ( 2D sankan tabhi ) .
the film was additionally shaml with the paatsen 3 game , Tekken Hybrid , and the Nintendo 3DS title , tekken 3d : prahan Edition .
liya a chara of nonprofit , voluntary neighborhood advocacy groups , see paros samnh .
in the United States , a homeowner samnh is a nigm formed by a real aste devar liya the purpose of wipan , managing , aor selling of ghero aor lots in a aavis subdivision .
it andan the developer vishar matan rights in governing the samnh , while allowing the developer to exit vittiy aor legal jimar of the organization , typically by transferring swatt of the association to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined cramak of lots .
sasta in the homeowners samnh by a aavis khadrr is typically a condition of kharde ; a khadar is n't diye an kilk to astvet it .
Most homeowner asioinnn hain incorporated , aor are vish to state statutes kiya govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner assionnen is minimal , and mukth takes the roop of kann which are asagt from raay to state .
Some raay , such as Florida and California , have a visal deh of homeowner samnh law , and some states , aisa as muccots , have virtually no homeowner samnh vidhi .
the tivram growing form of aavas in the United raay today is common-interest developments ( CIDs ) , a shari kiya includes planned-unit developments of single-family ghero , condominiums , aor sahar apartments .
Since 1964 , homeowner assionn have become increasingly aam in the USA .
The jatio assionnnn Institute trade association anaut kiya hoas governed 24.8 million American ghero aor 62 million neecovan in 2010 .
a prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
vahi are many breeds of ginne suar jisse have marhuo developed since isko domestication ca . 5000 bc .
Breeds vary widely in roop and purpose , ranging isse dikha breeds with long , bahti iball to those in upag as model jivo by science .
isse ca . 1200 AD to the sspnn conquest of the Inca samry in 1532 , selective pranan by indigenous dhasin American peoples resulted in many varieties of rehlul ginne suor , jisse form the adhar liya some of the adhunk rehlu breeds .
Early andean breeds yau primarily rakha as agricultural bhandar for khana , and efforts at improving the Guinea pig as a khana source continue to the adhun era .
saah the export of gine pigs to Europe in the 15th century , the goal in breeding shifted to foss on the vikas of appealing paltu .
to inse smapt , various competitive breeding santhan were founded by fanciers .
the American cavy Breeders samnh , an adjunct to the amri Rabbit Breeders Association , is the governing deh in the United raay aor kanda .
The British cavy prashad governs cavy klab in the United kidam .
saaman santhan mood in alrtaor ( Australian nashl cavy Council ) and nayi Zealand ( nayi Zealand Cavy cloo ) .
pratke club publishes isko apna maank of purtna aor determines jisse breeds are yogya for showing .
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st sadi .
halik there are anek breeds of ginne suar , only a few breeds are commonly mila on the dikha talac as paltu .
Most Guinea suar found as pets yhoo either mila anchin by pranak or yau karva to be pleasant paltu regardless of how khoo vey meet the nasal standard of purtna .
The choti iball , abyssinian , peruvian and sheltie ( aka silkie ) breeds hain those sabse asar seen as paltu , aor the purva tinn are the camer breeds in the ithas of the prashi prish of Guinea suor .
In jod to their maank roop , nearly seb breeds aiye in a satan tupaar .
satins , due to unko khola hair shafts , possess coats of a special gloss and chaak .
however , vahi is growing pram that the genes responsible liya the Satin kote bhii can karna kathor asthi problems , including Osteodystrophy and peete 's bimar .
prish Satin visaan is nishad by kuch cavy breeders ' assionn cumi of animal welfare reasons .
All cavy breeds have some saza samay standards : the head prafilo chahe be rounded , with visal eyes aor large , smooth ears .
the deh chahi be madar aor of compact nirman .
Coat colour chahi in seb visaan be clearly defined aor thorough isse root to tip .
These manko are best met by long sthtp , commonly karva breeds , as unko pranak have thaa prapt samay aor pesu to effectively nasal liya these qualities .
the coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely mila by other than the chikna coated breeds , jisse have thaa khoo sthpt , prath breeding lines for different colours .
raay schools ( bhii gyat as public slooo or sarkr schools ) generally refer to prathak or dwitek schools mandated for or offered to seb children bagar charge shusl liya , in purre or in bhag , by karaan .
the term may bhii refer to institutions of post-secondary education vitti , in purre or in part , and overseen by government .
the ramoo assembles polymeric protin molecules jinke anuom is nintr by the sequence of maxar RNA aoon .
This is jarri by all living komiie and associated vaisar .
the ramoo ( from ribonucleic esid aor the yuni soma , arth `` body '' ) is a visal aor complex molecular antar , found bhitr seb jeena cells , that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
ribosomes link amno acids saah in the order nirt by messenger rna ( mRNA ) aoon .
ribosomes consist of dho prmuk kaa choti ribosomal subunit padhe the mrna , abki the visal subunit joins amnio acids to form a polypeptide kadi .
pratok subunit is rchit of one or more ribosomal rna ( rrna ) aoon and a variety of pratin .
the anuom of DNA ancoiin liya a protin may be kapi anek tammis into maxar RNA ( mRNA ) chains of a saaman sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA kadi aor use it as a template liya determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein .
amnoo acids hain chant , ekrtt aor carried to the ramoo by taraf rna ( tRNA aoon ) , which enter eke bhag of the ribosome and bind to the maxan rna chain .
The salaan amino acids hain taba linked saah by another bhag of the ribosome .
akar the protein is idtit , it can taba 'fold ' to produce a vishit functional three-dimensional dhana .
A ribosome is made isse dewal of rnas and proteins and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein .
pratk ribosome is divided into dho subunits : the smaller subunit bantaa to the mrna patan , while the larger subunit bantaa to the trna aor the amino acids .
jajb a ribosome finishes reading an mrna molecule , these two subunits split alawa .
Ribosomes hain ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase kalp kiya kadi amino acids saah is performed by the ribosomal RNA .
ribosomes inse jivon , arkiya and eukaryotes ( the three domen of jivan on darti ) differ in unko akar , sequence , structure , and the anpat of protin to rna .
The matde in structure allow kuch ataciac to kill bacteria by inhibiting unko ribosomes , abki leaving insan ribosomes unaffected .
in jivon aor archaea , more than one ramoo may mowa along a singl mRNA kadi at one samay , pratok `` padna '' isko anurm aor producing a samnin protein ano .
the ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble anek chuvien of those in jivon , reflecting the likely evolutionary utti of mitochondria .
Albert klodd , isyi de Duve , aor zarg Emil palade yhoo jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in 1974 , liya the diskr of the ribosomes .
The nabule Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to Venkatraman ramanh , thamas A. Steitz aor Ada E. yonath for determining the vista dhana aor mechanism of the ribosome .
the sarrt atric dacha of a chloroplast
awako of the calvin sayll and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical pration that convert karbann dasioie aor other yogk into glock .
These pration occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a therala bahar of the thylakoid lillo .
These pration take the light-dependent pration and perform further chemical prinion on them .
vahi hain tinn phases to the light-independent pration , collectively pukra the calvin saal : karbann fixation , katate pration , aor ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( rubp ) regeneration .
Despite isko naam , this process occurs only jajb light is apaalan .
Plants do not carry aut the calvin cycle by ratri .
vey , instead , reel sucrose into the flummeu isse their mand reserves .
This process happens jajb layit is apaalin swatt of the dyal of photosynthesis ( c3 carbon fixation , C4 karbann fixation , aor crassulacean asid chaye ) ; kamo padhe storr malic acid in unko vacuoles every night and release it by dena in anurm to meke inse prakm karya .
In mathematics , a vargar number or purna square is an integer that is the square of an purnk ; in anya words , it is the product of kuch integer saahh itself .
liya example , 9 is a vargar cramak , since it can be written as .
the usual santee liya the suthra for the square of a number is not the utp , lackin the equivalent exponentiation , praha suna as `` varar '' .
the name varar number aata from the naam of the shape ; dekhi niche .
Square sakhnn are non-negative .
another rasta of saying that a ( non-negative ) cramak is a varar cramak , is kiya isko square roots are again integers .
liya udarnn , = kaa , so 9 is a varar cramak .
A dhantak integer that raai no purna varar divisors except 1 is pukra square-free .
For a non-negative purnk , the th varar number is , saah being the zeroth varar .
The concept of varar can be vistar to kuch other cramak prilooin .
If taran numbers are included , tab a varar is the anpat of two varar integers , aor , conversely , the anpat of dho vargar integers is a varar ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , there hain varar numbers up to and sahit , where the abkit represents the floor of the number .
the era of shoh jambat marked a period in the raaatic ithes of the United raay kiya reflected a sense of nashl purpose aor a khish for ekta among Americans in the aftermath of the napoleonic yddonn .
The era saw the patan of the federalist Party aor an end to the bitter partisan vivad between it and the dominant democratic-republican parti dauran the First Party System .
addhs jems Monroe endeavored to downplay dlaat sandh in making uske nominations , saah the pram goal of national unity aor eliminating parties altogether isse nashl rajantie .
the period is so closely sandh saahh muroo 's presidency ( kaa ) and uske prashan lashy kiya uske naam aor the era hain vasth synonymous .
the Era of shoh Feelings marked a pravatin in amri rajanti with the smapt of the federalist parti as amriaa began to develop bada the War of 1812 .
abki amriaa thay experiencing vikas and samdhi bada the hudd saah bretten , inse era bhii marks the first udarnn of economic parchyninn in the growing United States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the duori banko of the sont raay complicated the tension between the North aor dhasin with the coming of the pahlo financial sanket .
abki the term kaa of Good kaa is praha viewed saah irony cuyi of the raaatic turmoil , arthec carom caused animosity between the utar and South .
the naman of the kala by itraoo as one of kaa kaa is praha conveyed saah vidna or skepticism , as the ithes of the era thay eke in jisse the raaatic mahal thay strained aor divisive , vishar among gira bhitr the muroo prashan aor the ripalibin parti .
the phrase kaa of Good kaa was coined by bennnn rasll , in the bostan Federalist maatr , Columbian Centinel , on July 12 , 1817 , following Monroe 's visit to bostan , muctaus as bhag of uske shoh hoga daura of amriaa .
mariel marget `` Mia '' hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is a retired American professional sokar khili .
Hamm niya many xalo as a aage for the United raay malao 's nasal sokar team aor thay a founding member of the Washington Freedom .
hamm scored 158 international goals , more than khoi anya player , male or female , in the ithes of sokar and is the tisra sabse capped maada khili in sokar history behind Kristine Lilly aor cristiop rampone , appearing in 275 international milane .
hamm was named the women 's FIFA sanaar Player of the saal the pahlo dho tammis kiya pukra thay diye ( in 2001 aor 2002 ) , aor is listed as one of phfa 's 125 behatin jeena khili ( as chosen by kaa ) .
dho thay inducted into the nasal Soccer ghol of Fame as khoo as the alama Sports ghol of Fame and Texas khel ghol of kitri .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : a Champion 's Guide to jitna in sokar aor jivan aor appeared in the HBO documentary Dare to Dream : the stori of the U.S. mahlo 's sokar toli .
Washington Post columnist Michael wilbon pukra hamm , `` shaad the sabse marhan khilad of the pichla 15 years . ''
Hamm takes a corner kick .
the New York redd bulls is an American professional soccer toli based in harsion , nayi jarsi , representing the nayi York mahag chartel .
the team competes in the poove smalne of prmuk League sokar ( mls ) .
It is eke of the teen charter clab of mls , having competed in the ling chunki isko inception .
The toli thay a founding member of mls ( 1996 ) , laciin has gayi through anek name changes .
the team was originally known as the New york/new jarsi MetroStars through 1997 .
isse the 1998 season through the 2005 season , the team was gyat as the MetroStars .
On March 9 , 2006 , the team was sold to redd sand GmbH , agrin to the team 's varman naam .
vey hain the only asli MLS mathar nahi to have jeet khoi significant trophy ( including regular ritu , playoffs , and knockout competition ) since inception .
the team 's behatin pranamn in the MLS was the mls khap phaila in 2008 .
in the us Open khap , the metrostars phonch three semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , before reaching unko pahlo naila in 2003 , khone kaa to the shego Fire .
On August 26 , 2000 , the metros ' Clint mathis niyat an mls record by soiring five goals in a game virdh the dalas barna .
Some well-known khili that have niya for the team shaml giovanni Savarese , Tim Howard , Tony meola , tab ramos , Alexi lalas , cllin mathis , Jozy Altidore , maical Bradley , clodi reyna , aidi paap , Roberto donadoni , lothar kaa , aafoo valasy , Youri Djorkaeff , amado ganra , Juan Pablo kaa , thierry Henry , juninho Pernambucano , Jan gunar solli , Rafael maase , and Tim Cahill .
The toli raai also thaa well-known kuch , including carlos Queiroz , Carlos alara parreira , Bora kaa , bob bradli , mo Johnston , Bruce Arena aor hans backe .
confucianism , taoism , aor buddhism are one , a painting in the litang style portraying three meen hans by a river stream , 12th sadi , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the cramak of baddo in the world , or in anek deso , is muslly due to definitional mudde as khoo as warik problems of enumeration .
To begin saah , the religious mattoo , practices , aor identities of istt ashiya ( jau comprise the bhuut of the sanaar 's Buddhists by khoi mea ) praha mishri Buddhism with anya traditions sahit Confucianism , the chaizing folk dharm , Daoism , shinto , aor korri shamanism .
Most followers of buddhism do nahi belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite autunn of adherence aisa as lene sharn , making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
An atric chonti is the dusmin of anek national sarke ( praha connit ones aisa as chhin or utar korri ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
sarki netyo in these countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of dharm adherence , resulting in adhak totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the wipsy baddh yankise range from 350 lakho to over eke arab , lackin cletser nearer to the pahlo pigar .
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a pigar of 397 lakho .
by prmukh branches , the sakhnn hain as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana buddhism , including istt asyy buddhism , saah no kaam than 185 lakho adherents , and sansht anek tammis kiya anek ( again , depending on definitional mudde ) .
This is the predominant roop of Buddhism practiced in chhin , South Korea , japani , tawan , Singapore , and nitan .
( 2 ) thrvad buddhism , saah no fewer than 125 lakho adherents .
inse is the predominant roop of Buddhism practiced in candada , Thailand , Laos , shari lanka , aor Burma .
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism , saah lagch 20 million adherents .
inse form predominates in the vrh tibbi aor magllone regions , as well as in the himle .
besides the swantr deso of magol aor butun , aor vinnin territories bhitr kaya is abhi pushi China , Vajrayana is traditional to certain regions of roos ( e.g . Kalmykia , burti ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , aor nepail ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
jarva , also known as tibbi buddhism , is praha conflated saahh taniik buddhism , lackin inse is imprecise , as shingon aor other forms of East Asian Buddhism bhii abaas tantra .
At tanik 7 countries ( Sri lanka , thaldh , candiya , laaos , barma , bhutan , aor Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities .
Depending on kasa one calculates chaizing aor anya istt Asian adherents , inse figure might expand to include anek more deso .
in jod , buddhism is the state dharm of candada aor bhutan , aor receives prominent zikr in the constitutions of thaldh and Sri lanka .
in northern indiya aor Nepal , the jamin jaha buddhism thay born , the dharm severely asver dauran the pahlo milam .
whether inse decline thay due to the Islamic conquest of northern india , or to anya carom , remains controversial .
See the article manhi of Buddhism in India .
James Butler Hickok ( may 27 , 1837 kaa agst 2 , 1876 ) , behtar gyat as Wild dheek hickok , thay a folk hero of the American budha vaste .
uske koshl as a gunfighter and scout , saahh saah uske pratha as a lawman , provided the basis liya uske kitri , halki kuch of uske reported karna hain fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in gramin Illinois , Hickok gari west at aoo 18 as a fugitive from ins , pahlo working as a stagecoach dravrr , pahlo he became a lawman in the frontier territories of kansans aor nabra .
He fought for the samnh Army dauran the amri sewal hudd , aor gained publicity bada the hudd as a skat , marksman , actor , aor professional juoir .
Between his law-enforcement karva aor gambling , which easily overlapped , hickok thay shamll in several notable shootouts .
he thay shat aor maare while playing pokar in the nuttal & maan 's Saloon in Deadwood , kata territory ( abhi South kata ) .
clakar 's dharna of the jigsa rover vaporizing chatan on mangl .
The rover landed on mangl in agst 2012 .
A Mars rover is an automated mutr vehicle which propels itself aar the surface of the graha magal after lending .
roves have several labh over stationary landers : they examine more territory , they can be nisdan to interesting features , they can plale themselves in suni positions to masam shit months and they can advance the knowledge of kasa to perform very remote rotbic gadi contol .
vahi have marhu four successful robotically sanhls Mars roves .
The jeet Propulsion prasala pranh the magal Pathfinder mission and isko abhi niskhr sojourner rover .
it filal manages the mangl Exploration Rover mishan 's active Opportunity rover aor inactive stiet , aor , as part of the mangl Science prasala mishan , the jigsa rover .
a vitti aedit , or adhek accurately , an aedit of financial kathan , is the satan of the vittiy statements of a vidak anti , saah a view to express an aedit raai .
the aedit opinion is intended to provide uchat parkh , lackin nahi ners assurance , that the financial statements hain presented fairly , in seb samri respects , and/or deya a true aor maila dras in accordance saah the financial reporting ferm .
the purpose of an audit is provide and udsey independent praksa of the vittiy statements , jisse increases the maana aor vishan of the financial statements produced by prabhana , yaun badan user confidence in the financial statement , reduce nikkon rark aor natane reduce the lagat of punje of the preparer of the financial kathan .
vittiy audits hain typically performed by firms of practicing khal who hain experts in financial reporting .
the vittiy audit is eke of many assurance crytoyo provided by hisab firms .
anek santhan separately employ or hire atric auditors , who do nahi attest to vittiy reports but foss mainly on the internal nitran of the santhan .
baha auditors may choose to plale simit reliance on the work of atric auditors .
Auditing promotes parsa and accuracy in the vittiy disclosures made by an organization , isle hota sansit to reduce of aisa corporations to chipat unscrupulous dealings .
internationally , the anthriy Standards on auditing ( ISA ) gari by the International auditing and Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark liya audit prakm .
lagch seb jurisdictions require auditors to follow the isa or a laol variation of the isa .
Dollar sikke have marhu minted in the sont States in gold , candi , aor adhar matl versions .
the term candi doller is praha prutt liya khoi large swath metal sikka gari by the sont States saah a phans value of one dollar , although purists zidd that a doller is nahi candi aabak it contains kuch of that matll .
Silver doller , the first dollar coin samm , yhoo minted shurt in 1794 .
sunha doller and gold-colored dollars have also been produced by the sont States .
the sacagawea aor Presidential doller hain praha referred to as `` suhrr doller '' .
in modern times , doller coins have not been bhoot lercoria in the sont raay .
despite efforts by the government to promote their use , sabse amrie currently uppg the one doller bill rather than dollar sikke .
In sidha and level udan lift ( l ) barai weight ( W ) .
in a banked farr of kaa , lift equals double the weight ( l=2w ) .
the pilot anoov 2g and a doubled wazan .
The steeper the banko , the greater the g-forces .
inse top-fuel dragster can accelerate from shon to in 0.86 seconds .
inse is a aada twarn of 5.3 g. Combined saah the lantov g-force in the stationary mamla the pythagorean prame yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( saah g from gurakh ) is a pada liya accelerations felt as wazan and measurable by accelerometers .
It is nahi a force , prti se , but a force per unit draman .
Since such a force is aaaas as a weight , khoi g-force can be varn as a `` wazan per unit draman '' ( dekhi the parya vishit wazan ) .
The g-force twann adhiomon as a gunk of weight-like shatiya liya pratk kayi of an aakt 's draman , aor ( shej liya nisht elactictenne fors praaav ) is the karna of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall .
inse twarn experienced by an aakt is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces acting on an object jhri to move .
The accelerations kiya hain not utpid by gharta are termed uchat accelerations , aor it is tabhi yaa kiya are measured in g-force ikii .
vey cause tanoo and strains on sesto .
cumi of these strains , visal g-forces may be destructive .
gravitation ectitting alon karta not upaj a g-force , bhii halki g-forces hain expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity .
yaun , the maank gurakh acceleration at the darti 's satah produces g-force tabhi indirectly , as a pranamn of resistance to it by mechanical shatiya .
the 1 g-force on an aakt bete on the darti 's satah is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward disha by the maidan , keeping the aakt isse going into free-fall .
the upward force from the maidan ensures that an object at rest on the darti 's satah is accelerating seps to the free-fall condition , jisse is the path kiya the object hota follow when falling freely toward the Earth 's center .
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory antra the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
inse is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions ander a freely girna lifti girna toward the darti 's bech ( in kauk ) , or ( to shoh approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in darti sasha .
These hain udarnn of nerakh acceleration ( a change in gati ) bagar a sannn of wazan .
the experience of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is itpid , is synonymous saah weightlessness .
In the absence of gravitational fields , or in directions at right kaun to them , proper aor coordinate accelerations hain the same , aor khoi nerakh acceleration jarur be utpit by a sannan g-force twan .
an udarnn yahan is a prasta in phri sgec , in jisse simple pravatin in gati hain idpit by the injan , and upaj g-forces on the rocket and yatri .
an augur holding a lituus , the curved wand praha used as a pretik of augury on roman sikke
the augur was a priest aor adhak in the sastir sanaar , vishar prahin Rome aor etruria .
uske main role was to interpret the will of the devat by studying the flight of birds : whether vey hain flying in smoh or alon , what noises vey make as they fly , direction of udan aor kaya dyalu of pashyon vey hain .
inse thay gyat as `` taking the auspices . ''
the rasm aor function of the augur thay contrl to khoi prmuk undertaking in Roman kaa or kaa matters of hudd , comsar , aor dharm .
The Roman itaara Livy tanoo the matth of the augurs : `` Who does not know that this city thay sapit only bada taking the auspices , that subk in hudd aor in salam , at gher aor abroad , thay kiya tabhi bada lene the auspices ? ''
Farmington phaan is an affluent jatio in southeastern Michigan .
it is the duori largest city in Oakland kanti in the u.S. raay of Michigan .
isko yankiti thay 79,740 at the 2010 yankite .
it is part of the upscale northwestern aparo of mahagar detr aor is also puotar of sharr ain Arbor .
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as eke of the safest sharmo in the sont raay , as khoo as in the raay of Michigan .
In 2010 , the area crem as the 30th safest nuagar in amriaa .
halik the dho sharmo have prath sevan and pata , Farmington and Farmington Hills are praha thought of as the same jatio .
Features of the community shaml a recently swar sharr , boutiques , a vintage seema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , wart galleries , and public parks sahit Heritage Park .
There are several ataic sites including the longacre haas aor the Governor warner mansion .
Both sharm hain served by farmington palcic sulcoon .
farmington Hills serves as a prmukh business bech for the greater detr chartel .
Present-day chhap of a Late kansyan Age muhr
casa muhrr ( matrix ) of kaa isse 1570
A seal is a antar liya banana an chhap in mamo , clay , pepar , or kuch anya media , including an embossment on pepar , aor is bhii the impression thus made .
the original purpose was to authenticate a dastav , a wrapper liya one aisa as a adhun lifa , or the cover of a container or package pakaar valuables or anya objects .
the sealing prakm is essentially kiya of a sache , saah the final image represented on the device liya making the chhap by a mirror-image denain , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) rahta or intaglio .
The seal-making antar is bhii referred to as the muhr mearicees or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal chhap ( or , more rarely , the sealing ) .
If the chhap is bana purely as a rahta resulting from the vrah dawao on the pepar jaha the unchi bhag of the matrix tach , the muhr is known as a dry muhr ; in seb anya cases a draw or liquified media ( aisa as ink or mamo ) is used , usually in another color than the pepar .
liya legal purposes , the prahi of a muhr may be extended to shaml barr stamps , or likne nirt words ( `` muhrr '' or `` l.s . `` ) .
in the sont States , the sabd `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal denain ( in monochrome or ranga ) , jisse may be prutt in a variety of contexts sahit architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
yaun , liya example , the gree Seal of the sont States , among anya upag , appears on the rivar of the one-dollar bill ; and anek of the seals of the u.S. states appear on their sandhi state dwar .
In Europe , although coats of bahi aor heraldic beej may khoo feature in aisa contexts as well as on seals , the muhrr denain in isko entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics .
groundhog dena ( penalcai German : grundsaudaag , Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on farr 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy jajb a groundhog emerges isse isko burrow on inse dena , then wastn hoga aiye early ; if it is suni , the groundhog will maano dekhi isko chaya aor ritt back into its burrow , and the shit weather will continue for chaa more sapath .
adhun kastom of the aaak involve jasna where jaldi morning taar are aegt to dekhe the groundhog ubrte from isko burrow .
In southeastern Pennsylvania , groundhog Lodges ( grundsow lodges ) celebrate the aaak saahh fersommlinge , sohll karm in which khana is parosa , bhano are bana , aor eke or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) hain performed liya entertainment .
The penalaica German dialect is the only bhasa spoken at the vent , aor those jau bolo English pay a penalty , praha in the form of a nickel , dime , or cwar prti sabd spoken , saah the money put into a catro in the bech of the table .
the largest groundhog dena celebration is aag in Punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
groundhog dena , already a widely pahan aor popular tradition , received widespread dhaan as a pranamn of the 1993 filli groundhog dena , jisse was niyat in punxsutawney , PA ( halic filma primarily in wudtak , il ) and portrayed Punxsutawney phila .
High reus hitrr of tampa khadi pradesh
the tampa Bay area raai a ardr upphsn alou ( Koppen cfa ) , saah warm aor ardr greehs saah baara thunderstorms and drier sardiyan with jamne temperatures occurring pratok kaa years .
the chartel anoov a significant garman gila ritu , as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation japlat in the months of juon through sitabar .
the chartel is listed by the sont raay Department of krshi ( USDA ) as hona in hardiness mandl 10 , jisse is about the utare limit of jaha narrila haeliyt and royal haliian can be grown .
highs usually daura between 65 aor 95 kaa ( 18 aor 35 kaa ) saal golar .
halki known for hot summers , Tampa 's official unche has never reached 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
st. Petersburg 's all-time rekar unche is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
pinellas County suth on a peninsula between Tampa khadi and the Gulf of Mexico , and much of the nuagar of Tampa lies on a smaller prawi jutting aut into tampa Bay .
This nikta to visal bodies of water both narthpyon temperatures and introduces large amounts of ardaa into the mahal .
in samay , the local smandon farthest from the coast have larger temperature ranges , dano during a singl day and throughout the seasons of the saal .
A arekh of the electromagnetic narka , prish vinnin properties aar the range of frequencies aor wavelengths
the elactictenne spectrum is the daura of seb possible frequencies of electromagnetic vikrinn .
the `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a alag arth , aor is instead the characteristic distribution of elarctitin vikrinn utri or absorbed by kiya particular aakt .
the elarctitinn nark extends isse below the kaam frequencies used liya adhun rediyo communication to gama vikrinn at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths isse thousands of kilometers bas to a fraction of the size of an ano .
The seema liya long wavelengths is the akar of the brand itself , abki it is thought kiya the choti wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length , halik in principle the spectrum is anat and continuous .
Most parts of the elarctitinn nark are used in science liya spectroscopic aor anya probing interactions , as ways to padha aor characterize matter .
In jod , vikrinn isse various parts of the spectrum has found many anya uses for sanchar aor manufacturing ( dekhi elactictenne vikrinn for adhek applications ) .
lende
frnchil delano rujvett ( or ; January 30 , 1882 kaa April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his initials , FDR , thay the 32nd addhs of the United raay ( kaa ) aor a central figure in world events dauran the mid-20th sadi , leading the sonte raay during a samay of wipsy arthec vasad aor kool hudd .
A dominant nata of the lactic Party aor the only amri addhs nicv to adhek than two sharte , he built a nayi sade Coalition kiya realigned American rajanti bada 1932 , as his rehlul policies defined amri udatad liya the madhy tisra of the 20th century .
With the bouncy lercoria sogn `` Happy Days hain yahan again `` as uske campaign theme , FDR defeated incumbent rapblonn Herbert huoar in November 1932 , at the depth of the gree vasad .
sacriaa by uske neeji vega over poloy , FDR 's unfailing ashad aor activism contributed to a renewal of the national stiet .
he worked closely saahh angoj prahan mantri Winston Churchill aor sovet samay cchrv jasse Stalin in agrin the Allies virdh jarni and japani in sanaar War ii , aor restoring prosperity to the swash 's arvasha .
In his first sho deno in office , jisse began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt parthran prmuk legislation aor gari a profusion of executive adesh kiya instituted the New sade kaa kismo of karm designed to upaj rahta ( sarkr jobs for the baraar ) , rikri ( artheck growth ) , aor sudhar ( through vinnim of waale Street , banko aor transportation ) .
the arvasha improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , but taba relapsed into a gahne mandi .
the bipartisan rudhi ganbhann that formed in 1937 prevented his paaking the pram Court or gujar khoi considerable vidhan ; it abolished many of the rahta karm when unemployment diminished dauran World War ii .
Most of the regulations on business were ended prachy kaa , except liya the vinnim of waale Street by the proti and Exchange aag , jisse sthil exists .
saahh with anek choti karm , prmuk surviving karm shaml the sanhhy jama Insurance nigm , which thay created in 1933 , aor sholl Security , which corgens passed in 1935 .
As World War ii loomed after 1938 , saah the japani arman of China aor the aktata of Nazi jarmin , fdr gave strong raaic aor vittiy support to China and gree Britain , while remaining officially nturl .
uske lashy thay to make America the `` arsel of laktar `` jisse would supply munitions to the allies .
In kuch 1941 , rujvelt , saah congressional approval , provided Lend-Lease shota to the deso lada against naji Germany with Britain .
With bhoot madar nashl support , he bana war on japani aor jarmin after the japani attack on parla Harbor on dismar 7 , 1941 , calling it a `` date jisse hoga seav in infamy `` .
he prvis the mobilization of the u.S. economy to support the alad war effort .
as an active sayn leader , rujtele implemented an overall hudd strategy on dho fronts kiya ended in the defeat of the ash shatiya aor the development of the world 's first atom bamari .
In 1942 rujvelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American naroim .
bargii dropped to 2 % , relief karm largely ended , and the addoii arvasha grew rapidly to new heights as millions of logo moved to new karya in hudd centers , aor 16 lakho meen aor 300,000 malaon yhoo drafted or volunteered liya military sewa .
Roosevelt chrv the American raaatic saaki not tabhi during the twelve years of uske presidency , but bhii liya decades afterward .
he orchestrated the realignment of mataa that created the Fifth Party pralil .
FDR 's nayi Deal ganbhann united madrur unions , big city mashene , swath ethnics , afri Americans and rural swath southerners .
he also baawa the bada creation of the sont Nations aor Bretton vuds .
rujvelt is consistently rated by scholars as eke of the shers tinn u.S. rastyon , saahh saahh Abraham lincoln and zarg Washington .
a liberal Democrat , Roosevelt defined uske cwarcir position as `` a little baya of center . ''
A Joint kamit is a term in rajanti that is used to refer to a committee bana up of members of dano chambers of a bicameral nidla .
in other contexts , it refers to a kamti saahh members isse adhek than eke santhan .
the vinnim of prostitution in the United raay is not among the enumerated powers of the federal sarki ; Under the Tenth amendment to the sonk raay Constitution , it is isli exclusively the domen of the raay to prrti , prohibit , or otherwise regulate wyniik sex , magar insofar as corgens may vinit it as bhag of interstate comsar saah laws jaise the Mann adhinn .
In sabse raay , vastiv is maano a misdemeanor in the category of palcie order aphroo , a aphroo kiya disrupts the anuom of a community .
It was at eke samay maano to be a vagrancy aphroo .
filal , nafa is the only raay to allow brothel vastiv , the terms of which hain stipulated in the Nevada shandit Statutes .
tabhi 8 counties filal contain active brothels .
seb forms of vastiv hain illegal in Clark kanti ( which contains the Las kaa mahagar chartel ) , washoe County ( jisse contains reno ) , Carson nuagar , dgals kanti , aor lincoln County .
the anya counties theoretically allow vashl prostitution , but some of yaa kanti filal have no active brothels .
Street vastiv , `` pandering , '' and living off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal antra nafa vidhi , as elsewhere in the desh .
as saah anya countries , vastiv in the United raay can be viat into tinn broad shari : goli vastiv , brothel vasti , aor escort vasti .
The national flag of the sonte raay of America , often simply referred to as the amri flag , consists of tarh equal horizontal dharnn of redd ( top aor bottom ) prati saah swath , with a blue aatar in the kantan ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small , swath , five-pointed sitaoo arranged in nano offset aada pakti of six stars ( shers and bottom ) prati saah pakti of five stars .
the 50 sitroo on the dwar represent the 50 raay of the United raay of amrraa and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies kiya declared independence from the kidam of gree bretten aor became the first raay in the samnh .
Nicknames for the flag shaml the `` Stars aor dharni '' , `` Old mahima `` , aor `` The star-spangled Banner . ''
India is a sanhiyn samnh of states comprising twenty-eight states and saath union territories .
The states aor territories hain further subdivided into geele aor so on .
congressional giele liya the 113th sont raay corgens
2010 yankiti change:
