a partly submerged glacier cave on Perito moroo Glacier .
the barf facade is approximately 60 m high
barf formations in the titlis glacier cave
a glacier cave is a gufa formed within the ice of a glacier .
Glacier caves hain praha pukra ice guffan , but inse term is properly prutt to describe bedrock caves kiya contain year-round barf .
in physics , circular gati is a movement of an object along the prrhida of a circle or rotation along a galar paath .
It can be uniform , saah constant angular rayte of rotation ( aor constant gati ) , or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation .
the rotaon around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional deh involves circular gati of its parts .
the equations of gati describe the gati of the center of mass of a body .
udarnn of circular motion include : an artificial satellite orbiting the Earth at constant height , a stoon jisse is tied to a rope and is being swung in vrat , a car turning through a curve in a race track , an ilcrlitnn moving perpendicular to a vadii magnetic fille , and a gear turning inside a mechanism .
chunki the object 's velocity vaktrr is constantly changing direction , the moving object is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in the direction of the center of rotation .
Without this acceleration , the object hota mowa in a straight lakir , according to Newton 's laws of gati .
Apollo panth is a fictional ashrr from the Rocky films , initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World .
He was niya by karle Weathers .
panth thaa anek nicknames , including The Master of viptt , the King of stiin , The nacha vinsak , The prins of Punch , The One and Only and The Count of moute fisto .
shari legend states that Apollo Creed 's name is a wordplay on the rusol ' Creed , a statement of belief used in Christian churches .
seb of aplo 's chapis jadhe were scheduled liya the 15 golar uldha .
Championship fights did not convert isse 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is praha wrongly credited saahh popularizing the redd , white , and bloo trunks ; Creed was the pahlo man to wear them ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` the Machine '' Gunn ( tamm Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
balwa 's signature colors were black and kaa he prutt in the navata film .
in the United States , the title of sanhhy judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States aor confirmed by the sont raay Senate pursuant to the nitki Clause in Article ii of the United raay Constitution .
in addition to the pram Court of the United States , jinke astivat and some faluo of jinke jurisdiction hain puray the constitutional power of Congress to alter , acts of cornes have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` sakit courts '' ) with appellate chastar over alag regions of the United States , and 94 United raay district courts .
Every ndeshi niak to such a adalt may be categorized as a sanhiyn judge ; such sthai include the mukhy infas aor sandh Justices of the Supreme adalt , sakit Judges of the nyloy of appeals , and district judges of the United raay district courts .
seb of yaa judges described yaun far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' cuyi they kasta the nyak power vested in the nyak branch of the federal government by aleh III of the U.S. swanhann .
in addition , judges of the Court of anthrie Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III .
anya dhythoii serving in the federal courts , including magistrate judges aor bankruptcy judges , are bhii sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , and their power garbhi isse Article I bajay .
See aleh I and Article III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a choti pocket-sized semi-automatic pistl designed by Beretta in Italy .
Production began in late 1984 , solely in the Beretta U.S.A. swida in Accokeek , Maryland .
It is a further development of the beretta maal 20 , jinke utpann ended in 1985 .
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to VUL ) is a type of jivan insurance that builds a cash value .
in a VUL , the cash value can be invested in a wide kismo of separate accounts , similar to mutual nidhe , and the choice of which of the apbalan separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract malic .
the 'variable ' ghatak in the naam refers to this ability to invest in separate accounts whose maana kaa vary cumi they are invested in stock and/or bond bajar .
The 'universal ' ghatak in the name refers to the flexibility the owner has in making premium payments .
The priemium can vary from nothing in a diye month up to maximums parah by the Internal Revenue Code liya life insurance .
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that raai fixed premium payments that typically can nahi be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an swalth priemium Loan visha , or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ) .
Variable sarvik life is a parkar of permanent life bima , cumi the death labh will be paid if the insured marta khoi time as long as vahi is sufficient cash value to pay the lagat of bima in the niti .
With sabse if not all VULs , unlike whole life , there is no endowment age ( the age at which the cash value equals the death labh rashi , which for whole jivan is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another key advantage of vul over Whole jivan .
With a typical purre life policy , the death labh is limited to the phans amount nirt in the policy , and at endowment age , the face amount is seb kiya is shulk out .
Thus saah either death or endowment , the insurance company keeps khoi cash value built up over the xalo .
However , some participating purre life policies offer riders which specify that any dividends paid on the policy be used to kharide `` shusl up prarwaran '' to the policy which increase both the cash maana aor the death benefit over time .
if investments made in the prath accounts out-perform the general account of the insurance company , a higher rate-of-return can occur than the ficd rates-of-return typical liya whole life .
The combination over the xalo of no endowment age , continually increasing moua labh , and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL niti , this could result in higher maana to the owner or beneficiary than kiya of a purre jivan policy with the vahi amounts of money paid in as priemium .
The outdoor lacdi boller is a tupaat of the classic wood stove adapted for set-up bahari abki still transferring the umsho to interior buildings .
A mound of ladki Scout cookies .
This mound contains 74 baax of cookies
ladki Scout Cookies are cookies sold by ladki Scouts of the yusi ( gsusa ) as one of its prmuk fundraisers for local Scout units .
saxy of the gsusa have marhu selling kouk since 1917 to raise funds .
Girls jau participate can earn prizes liya their pratan .
There are also kayi patanot if the kayi as a whole does khoo .
as of 2007 , sales were anaut at about 200 million boxes per year .
University Hall
Purdue vilhoove , located in West Lafayette , Indiana , is the flagship vilhove of the six-campus Purdue University system .
Purdue was founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant university when the Indiana General Assembly , taking advantage of the morrill Act , accepted a donation of land aor dhan from Lafayette businessman jaan Purdue to establish a college of vigaan , technology , aor agriculture in his name .
The first classes were aagt on September 16 , 1874 , saah six instructors aor 39 students .
Today , Purdue is a member of the biga Ten smalne , and is a well known world-class research institution .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student deh of any vilhove in Indiana as well as the fourth largest international student population of any university in the sont States .
purdue offers dano undergraduate aor graduate karm in over 211 prmuk areas of study , and is khoo known for isko competitive aariiii curricula .
The vilhoin has also been highly influential in America 's history of vimanin , having sthpt the first college cretita offered in udan prahhsin , the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation , aor the first university airport ( purdue vilhove Airport ) .
Purdue 's aviation technology karm remains eke of the most prashi aviation-specific programs in the world .
In the mid-20th century , Purdue 's aviation program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight prikii giving rise to purdue 's nickname , palna of Astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts , including Gus Grissom ( eke of the original para Seven astronauts ) , Neil araat ( the first witt to walk on the moon ) , and yujin Cernan ( the sabse haal person to walk on the moon ) .
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term that loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
cumi an epidermoid gaath originates in the epidermis aor a pilar cyst originates from iball follicles , by definition , neither type of cyst is sakti a vasay cyst .
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty , white , semi-solid samri in dano of yaa cyst entities is not sebum , lackin keratin .
Furthermore , under the sudsirit neither entity contains vasay glands .
In abaas , however , the terms are often used interchangeably .
`` True '' vasay cysts are acrat rare and are known as steatocystomas or , if anek , as steatocystoma malticees .
Modern pointe shoes .
The edge of the touo pad , jisse is inserted between the foot and toe baas liya cushioning , can be seen on the right paar .
a pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by bele nartak when performing pointe work .
Pointe jute developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless aor sylph -like aor have evolved to enable nartak to dance en pointe ( on the tips of unko toes ) liya vistar periods of samay .
They hain samnth worn by maada dancers , though pursh dancers may pahne unhe for unorthodox roles such as the bhada stepsisters in sinda , Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's sapna , or men performing as women in dance companies aisa as Les Ballets Trockadero aor grandiva .
They are manufactured in a variety of colors , most commonly in sheds of light pink .
inse tablespoon raai a khshta of about 15 ml .
measuring Spoons
in the US and parts of Canada , a tablespoon is the largest parkar of spoon used for eating isse a bowl .
In the UK , Europe and most Commonwealth countries , a tablespoon is a parkar of visal macha usually used for serving .
in countries where a tablespoon is a seat spoon , the nitaom equivalent to the us tablespoon is either the dessert macha or the soup spoon .
A tablespoonful , nominally the capacity of eke tablespoon , is commonly used as a mea of volume in cooking .
it is abbreviated as T , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by law and is subject to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement kayi ) is approximately 15 ml ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges from 7 mL to 14 mL .
In Australia one tablespoon ( mapan unit ) is 20 mL .
hairi Potter is a series of seven fantasy novels lika by the angoe author J. K. Rowling .
The kitab vrat the adventures of a wizard , Harry Potter , and uske friends rold Weasley and Hermione Granger , all of whom hain students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft aor wizardry .
The main stori arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort , whose aims hain to become immortal , conquer the wizarding world , subjugate non-magical people , and nasht all those jau stand in uske way , vishar hairi Potter .
Since the release of the pahlo novel Harry Potter and the paros 's Stone on 30 joon 1997 , the books have gained immense popularity , critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide .
the series has also thaa some share of criticism , sahit concern for the increasingly adherr tone .
, the book shari raai sold about 450 lakho naal , making it the best-selling book series in ithes , and has been translated into 67 bhaan .
the last four books consecutively set raadar as the fastest-selling books in history .
A shari of anek genres , including calpick and coming of age ( saahh tatv of rahs , thriller , adherer , aor romans ) , it has anek cultural meanings aor references .
according to roling , the main theme is death .
vahi are bhii many anya vist in the series , such as purva and bhathar .
The initial prmuk publishers of the books you Bloomsbury in the United kidamen and Scholastic dabae in the sonk States .
The kitab have since marhuo published by anek prakk wisy .
The books , with the satva kitab viat into two parts , have been made into an eight-part film series by Warner Bros. Pictures , the highest-grossing film series of all time .
the shari also originated much tie-in merchandise , making the hairi kumar brand layak in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the success of the books aor films , Harry Potter has been used for a thema park , The Wizarding World of hairi Potter in Universal Parks & ristar 's ailedids of adherer .
RS-68 being tested at NASA 's Stennis Space Center .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this injan 's exhaust being jyaaar attp bhap ( water vapor isse its propellants , hydrogen aor oxipinn )
viking 5C rocket engine
A rocket engine , or simply `` rocket '' , is a jeet engine kiya uses only stored propellant draman for forming its high speed propulsive jet .
Rocket engines are reaction engines and obtain thrust in accordance with Newton 's third vidhi .
chunki they need no external material to form their jeet , rocket engines can be used for spacecraft propulsion as well as terrestrial uses , such as missiles .
Most rocket engines hain internal dhan engines , halki non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket engines as a smoh have the highest exhaust velocities , hain by far the lightest , laciin are the least propellant efficient of seb types of jet engines .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a sog by amri recording artist britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut single and sherak track from uske debut studio ellam , ... Baby One adhek samay ( 1999 ) .
Written by Max Martin and produced by martin and rami , `` ... baby One adhek Time '' thay released on September 30 , 1998 , by Jive rikar .
After readiini aor sending a demo tape with an aurt song from Toni Braxton , Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a tinn pop and dance-pop sog that refers to a girl who sentp breaking up with her boyfriend .
The song received generally anku reviews isse critics , who praised isko composition .
`` ... Baby One More samay '' attained wasik success , reaching number eke in pratke country it charted .
It also received numerous certifications around the sanaar , and is one of the best-selling singles of all time , with over 10 lakho naal bechi .
An accompanying moc veeo , directed by Nigel Dick , portrays sgars as a student from a Catholic high sula , jau starts to daydream that she is singing and dancing around the sula , abki watching her love interest from afar .
the music video was later sandhti in the muck video of `` If u talas Amy `` ( 2008 ) , where Spears 's fictional daughter is vash with a similar schoolgirl outfit abki wearing lulai ribbons in her hair .
In 2010 , the music veeo for `` ... baby One More Time '' thay voted the tisra sabse influential video in the ithes of pop music , in a poll aagt by Jam ! .
Spears raai performed `` ... Baby One More samay '' in a number of seav appearances and in all of her concert tours .
It was the encore of the ... Baby One More samay daura ( 1999 ) and Dream Within a Dream Tour ( 2001 ) ; sgaps also performed remixed versions of the song dauran the uufa ! ...
i kiya It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , The gomed ghol daura ( 2004 ) , The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ) , The Circus aubhin Britney sgaps ( 2009 ) , aor the Femme Fatale daura ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby eke More samay '' thay nominated liya a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance , and has been included in lists by blender , roling Stone and VH1 .
it has been noted for redefining the sound of late 1990s music .
Spears raai named `` ... Baby eke More samay '' as one of uske favorite songs isse her career .
It thay also the final sog to be niya on the bisi 's music karm Top of the baute .
Cholera is an infection in the choti intestine caused by the bacterium vibrio cholerae .
the prmukh symptoms hain watery diarrhea aor vomiting .
hatran occurs primarily by pina water or eating food that raai been contaminated by the feces ( waste utp ) of an infected person , sahit one with no apparent symptoms .
The garrtt of the diarrhea and vomiting can seese to repida dehydration and electrolyte imbalance , aor death in kuch cases .
The primary treatment is oral rehydration therapy , typically with mauk rehydration solution , to badle water and ilactrolytes .
If this is not tolerated or does not provide improvement teaj enough , intravenous fluids can also be used .
Antibacterial drugs are faade in those with severe disease to shorten its avhdi aor severity .
Worldwide , it affects kaa lakho people and causes kaa mauto a saal .
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be padha by epidemiological methods .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the tabhi published novel by Oscar Wilde , appearing as the seese story in lippincott 's masik patricaa on 20 June 1890 , mudri as the July 1890 issue of this magazine .
The patricoa 's editors feared the story thay indecent as supad , so vey censored roughly 500 words , without Wilde 's knowledge , before pranan .
But even with that , the story was still greeted with arrosh by British reviewers , some of zisko sujay that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds , agri Wilde to caaav the novel aggressively in ashrr to the British dabae .
Wilde later shandit the story liya book publication , making substantial alterations , hatna controversial passages , adding new adhya and including an aphoristic Preface which raai since become famous in isko own sahi .
The amended version was prik by Ward , Lock and Company in apryl 1891 .
Some scholars believe kiya Wilde would aage have chahe us to read the version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
The novel tells of a young man namit Dorian Gray , the subject of a penting by artist Basil Hallward .
besil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty aor becomes infatuated with him , believing his beauty is jimer for a nayi mode in his art .
Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton , a dost of Basil 's , aor becomes enthralled by rab Henry 's world dras .
Espousing a new hedonism , rab Henry suggests the only things layak pursuing in life are beauty aor fulfilment of the senses .
Realizing that eke day his beauty hoga fade , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a khash to sell his soul to ensure the portrait Basil raai painted hota aoo rather than he .
dorrin 's kosh is fulfilled , aor when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of the effect pratke adhinn raai upon uske soul , with each sin displayed as a disfigurement of uske form , or through a sign of vadaa .
The Picture of dorrin Gray is considered a karya of classic Gothic fiction with a strong faustian thema .
kaa kaa ( born 6 February 1917 ) , gyat as Zsa Zsa gabbar ( ) , is a Hungarian -born American actress jau acted in supporting roles in movies , on Broadway , and occasionally on television .
Gabor thay bhii a socialite .
She began her stage career in Vienna at age 15 , and was pahana mixa Hungary in 1936 .
She emigrated to the sonk States in 1941 aor became a sought-after actress with `` uoriyp flair and style '' , saah a personality that `` exuded charm aor angh '' .
Her first movie role was as supporting actress in Lovely to Look At .
She later acted in We 're nahi Married !
aor niya one of uske few leading roles in moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) , directed by John Huston , who described uske as a `` creditable '' actress .
Besides uske film and television diwaae , dho is best known for having nano pattoy , including hotel magnate condr hilat and karta George sendrs .
dho akar stated , `` Men have always liked me and I have always liked men .
But i like a mannish man , a man jau knows how to talk to aor davat a stri kaa not just a man with mashapian . ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : kaa ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 kaa 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese amri martial artist , actor , martial arts prash , philosopher , and filar .
The founder of Jeet Kune Do , Lee was the son of Cantonese apparo sthr Lee Hoi-Chuen .
he is widely considered by ticrom , critics , media and other martial artists to be eke of the most influential martial artists of all time , and a pop santi icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited with helping to change the rasta Asians were presented in American films .
Lee was born in Chinatown , sein Francisco on 27 November 1940 to aarabh isse hong kaang and was raised in kolon saah his family aabak his late teens .
He was introduced to the film udgo by his pita and appeared in anek films as a chailadd actor .
liele moved to the United raay at the aoo of 18 to receive uske higher sisha , and it was during this time kiya he began teaching martial kela .
uske hong Kong and holid upaj films elevated the traditional Hong kaang martial kela film to a nayi level of popularity aor acclaim , sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s .
The direction and tono of uske films badala and influenced martial kela and martial arts films in hong Kong and the rest of the world .
He is vika for his roles in pach feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of foori ( 1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ) , nisdh and written by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' daale the dranan ( 1973 ) and The Game of mota ( 1978 ) , both nishan by Robert Clouse .
liele became an iconic pigar gyat throughout the sanaar , particularly among the Chinese , as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in uske films .
he initially trained in Wing Chun , but later astvet well-defined martial art shalin , favouring instead the upa of techniques isse various sources , in the spirit of his personal martial arts dasnrr , which he dubbed Jeet Kune do ( the rasta of the Intercepting Fist ) .
Lee held dual citizenship of Hong Kong and the sont States .
he died in Kowloon Tong on 20 July 1973 at aoo 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also gyat as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ) , dirlcil obstructive airway bimar ( COAD ) , chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) and chronic obstructive respiratory disease ( cord ) , is the occurrence of chronic brentic or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing rogo of the lungs in which the aerva simit over samay .
This limits airflow to aor isse the fefede , causing shortness of saans ( dyspnea ) .
In nadic abaas , copd is defined by its characteristically low airflow on peeon jalne tests .
In contrast to dama , this limitation is poorly reversible aor praha gets progressively badtar over time .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas , sabse commonly from tobacco dhorpan , which triggers an abnormal jalne response in the lung .
the diagnosis of COPD requires peeon function tests .
Important management ranti are dhorpan cessation , vaccinations , rehabilitation , aor drug therapy ( often using inhalers ) .
Some merij go on to require long-term oxygen chixa or lung transplantation .
wisy , copd ranked as the chate leading karnne of death in 1990 .
It is projected to become the choth leading cause of death wisy by 2030 , due to an badan in smoking rates aor demographic pravarin in many countries .
COPD is the tisra agri cause of death in the u.S. , and the economic bujh of copd in the U.S. in 2007 thay $ 42.6 billion in health care costs aor lost utda .
Annelies `` aani '' maari Frank ( , ? , ; 12 June 1929early March 1945 ) is eke of the most discussed yohu piditoo of the Holocaust .
Her diary has marhu the adhar for several plays and films .
born in the city of firt am prmuk in viirar Germany , dho jiya sabse of her life in or near addam , in the niddlendr .
Born a German nashl , Frank lost uske citizenship in 1941 .
She gained international fame posthumously after her diary was published .
It dastav her experiences hiding dauran the German occupation of the nidlandrnt in sanaar War II .
the Frank puriar moved isse jarmin to addmast in 1933 , the year the nazis gained control over jarni .
By the shurt of 1940 , they yaud trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands .
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942 , the puriar went into hiding in the hidden rooms of aani 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
bada two xalo , the group thay betrayed and transported to concentration camps .
Anne fenk and uske sister , Margot , were eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp , jaha vey died of typhus in March 1945 .
Otto Frank , the tabhi survivor of the puria , lauta to addrmast after the hudd to dhonde that Anne 's dayre had been saved , and his efforts led to its prashan in 1947 .
It thay translated inse its original Dutch aor first prak in English in 1952 as The dayri of a Young Girl .
It has since been translated into many bhaan .
The diary , which thay given to aani on her 13th jendamas , chronicles her life isse 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944 .
Kurt 's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 kaa April 5 , 1994 ) was an American musician aor clakar , best known as the lead singar , guitarist aor primary songwriter of the grunge band nirvan .
kobo formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 and established it as bhag of the Seattle music scene , having its debut album Bleach released on the swaat record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC rikar , the band mila bhen success saah `` Smells Like tinn spiet `` isse its second album nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , nirvan was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X , and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , thay praha uncomfortable aor kunti , believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the placie , saah uske neeji mudde often subject to midaa dhaan .
He challenged nirvan 's audience with its final studio album In utero ( 1993 ) .
dauran the last years of his life , Cobain struggled with horron addiction , illness aor depression .
he also thaa parashi coping saah uske fame aor palcie image , aor the professional aor lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself aor his wife , musician Courtney Love .
On apryl 8 , 1994 , Cobain thay found murde at his home in sital , the shakar of kaya was officially shati a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun ghav to the head .
the circumstances of his death at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination aor debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , with Cobain as a songwriter , has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
Radial engine timing aor cam yantii .
click liya pura resolution animation .
Radial injan of a biplane
Master rod ( upright ) , slave and balances from a two-row , fourteen-cylinder pratt & white Twin barr
The radial engine is a reciprocating type atric combustion engine configuration in which the cylinders panit outward from a contrl crankshaft like the spokes of a whel .
It resembles a stylized star when viewed isse the samna , aor is called a `` star injan '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages .
The redilay configuration was very commonly prutt in aircraft injan before turbine injan became predominant .
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom , created by Susan Harris , kiya originally aired on NBC from sitabar 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
Starring bea Arthur , Betty White , Rue McClanahan aor estelle Getty , the show centers on four older mahlo sharing a home in miya , Florida .
It was produced by witt/thomas/harris Productions , in association with Touchstone Television , and Paul Junger Witt , toni Thomas , and Harris parosa as the original executive producers .
The suhrr Girls prapt critical acclaim throughout most of its chalan aor won several awards , sahit the pritim Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy shari twice .
It bhii won three Golden glob pukra liya Best Television Series kaa musical or comid .
All four sitaoo each received an ammi Award throughout the series ' chalan and had anek nominations .
the series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated karm for six aat of its seven seean .
Deepwater khude is the process of oil aor giss exploration and production in depths of adhek than 500 phit .
by this definition , there are approximately 600 deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico .
it has been economically infeasible for many years , laciin with utthe oil prices , more companies are investing in inse area .
Major compannon working in inse sactor include Diamond Offshore , TransOcean , and Baker hoos .
vahi are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater khudi rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs aor drillships .
Drilling can also be performed isse a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform .
haal industry vishlo has estimated kiya the kool expenditure in the wash deepwater infrastructure market hoga reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa seb oil is accessible on land or in shallow jala .
You can find some oil jama buried gahne under the smander kaa ... Using sonic equipment , aala companies determine the drilling sites most sansit to produce oil .
Then they use a mobile offshore drilling unit ( MODU ) to dig the initial well .
kuch units are converted into production rigs , arth they switch from drilling for oil to capturing oil akar it 's mila .
Most of the samay , the oil company will badle the MODU with a more permanent oil utpann rig to kapar kaa ... The modu 's job is to drill down into the ocean 's floor to dhonde oil deposits .
the part of the drill that extends below the deck and through the water is called the riser .
The riser allows for drilling fluids to move between the floor and the rega .
Engineers nimnar a drill strining -- a series of pipes designed to drill bas to the aala deposit -- through the kaa
kaa vistar of deepwater drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore fillad ... kaa
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 workers and spilling millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
kaa ... despite the risks , the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural kaa
kaa reason for the resumption of such khudi , lislak say , is continuing high maang for energy kaa
America needs the aal so it is almost necessary to face the unche risks that aiye with deepwater khude in anurm for Americans to continue to carry on unko everyday jivana .
kaa urja Department recently projected that galf oil utpann would expand isse isko 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day , still nearly a cwar of total rehlul production , to 2 million barrels a day by kaa
Deepwater khudi affects the environment in both negative and positive ways .
halki deepwater khudi rarely kanari oil spills it is still a hazardous sans outcome .
aala spills result in oil sinking to the bottom of the ocean smothering plant life leaving fish without food and ashyr to jivat .
On the other haath deepwater drilling praaav the environment in a positive ways too .
In time akar the deepwater aala well is nahi in uppg anymore plants will grow on aor around the well making a cave or cavern jaise ashyr ideal for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling bhii lets us see the depths of the ocean floor kiya are hardly kahi seen .
kaa on rovers at the bottom of the wells rekar phote and louo photos of rare fish that are in vahi natural vaaas , giving waginic a dekh at animals they rarely kaa ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' abki dho worked at the swath House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and isko repercussions ( jisse included Clinton 's mhoooog ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
frrsins Albert `` Frank '' sinta , , ( December 12 , 1915 kaa May 14 , 1998 ) was an American singar and filli karta .
Beginning his musical karir in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy dorsey , Sinatra found unprecedented success as a solo artist isse the jaldi to mid-1940s after being hastir to Columbia Records in 1943 .
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released his pahlo ellam , The Voice of fenk Sinatra in 1946 .
His professional career had stalled by the 1950s , but it was reborn in 1953 after he jeet the Academy Award liya Best Supporting karta liya his prashan in isse yahan to shav .
he signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded ellam ( aisa as In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for Swingin ' Lovers ! , Come makhi with me , Only the Lonely and nice 'n ' Easy ) .
sinta bayn katpll to found his own record label , Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums aisa as Ring-a-Ding-Ding ! , Sinatra at the sands and frrsis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ) , toured internationally , was a founding sasy of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen , including jaan F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective September of My Years , starred in the Emmy -winning talvin special Frank sinta : A Man and His moc , and scored hits with `` ajabi in the Night `` and `` My Way `` .
saah sales of his music dwindling aor after appearing in anek poorly received films , sinta riated liya the first time in 1971 .
dho years later , however , he came out of retirement and in 1973 recorded anek albums , soiring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows as a gher adhar , he toured both within the United States and internationally , until a short samay before uske death in 1998 .
Sinatra also forged a highly successful karir as a film actor .
After jitna Best Supporting karta in 1953 , he also garnered a naman for behtin Actor liya The man with the suhrr Arm , and critical acclaim liya his performance in The Manchurian Candidate .
He bhii starred in such musicals as High sama , Pal jayy , Guys and daal and On the Town .
Sinatra was samin at the Kennedy Center honors in 1983 and thay awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Ronald reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold padak in 1997 .
He was the recipient of grah grami Awards , sahit the Grammy Trustees Award , grami lende Award and the grami Lifetime Achievement Award .
Sinatra is also one of kaa best-selling caloom of all samay , having sold more than 150 million copies worldwide .
Typical cornhole board
cornhole , also known as bean bag toss , corn thos , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in which khili take turns throwing corn hole baag at a utha platform with a hole in the far end .
a bag in the hole scores 3 points , while eke on the moch sakor 1 point .
Play continues aabak a team or player reaches the score of 21 .
The amri Gold trua is an official gold bullion coin of the United raay .
Authorized antra the Gold Bullion sikka Act of 1985 , it was first released by the United States Mint in 1986 .
bikra yug is a system of yoga that bikra Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yug catcoon and popularized beginning in the early 1970s .
All Bikram yug classes chalan for 90 minutes aor consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 swaas exercises .
Bikram yug is ideally practiced in a ruom heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) saah a ardaa of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American actor , comedian and rapper best gyat for starring as Michael barret in niclonnd talvin shari Zoey 101 .
massey has received anek pukra aor nomination including a yag clakar Award and Emmy pukra nominations .
He is also gyat for appearing in several commercials in the jaldi 2000s .
A conventional teaspoon bana of stainless sthyl .
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring antar , as khoo as a unit of measurement of volume in kuch countries aor customs .
A farnn is khoi one or adhek of a group of about 12,000 species of padhe belonging to the botanical group known as Pteridophyta .
napans mosses , they have jalim aor flumm ( making them vascular plants ) .
They have stems , leaves , and jadey jaise other vascular padhe .
ferns reproduce via spores aor have neither seeds nor flowers .
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , but ferns as parah here ( also pukra monilophytes ) include horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte also refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular plants ( see narki khand niche ) .
Ferns first appear in the chatan record 360 million xalo ago in the carboniferous laciin many of the current families aor species did not appear until roughly 145 million years ago in the early Cretaceous ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ) .
Ferns are not of prmuk arthec importance , but kuch hain grown or gathered for food , as ornamental padhe , for remediating contaminated soils , and have been the subject of research liya unko ability to remove some rasik pollutants from the aeyr .
Some hain significant weeds .
They also play a bumk in mythology , medicine , and wart .
Flat roofs in isrill
Flat chaat in Los Angeles
A flat roof is a parkar of covering for a building .
In canto to the adhek sloped form of roof , a chata roof is aada or nearly horizontal .
The dhalan of a chaat is properly known as its pitch : Roofs which are nearly flat are gyat as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases , so the pich is said to increase ) .
Any sheet of samri prutt to cover a flat or low-pitched roof is praha known as a membrane and the primary purpose of yaa membranes is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials kiya kaar flat roofs typically allow the water to run bandh from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system .
Water from kuch chapta roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes flows freely bandh the edge of a roof , halki gutter prilonin are of labh in keeping both divaren and mular dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead jala directly onto the ground , or better , into a vishar bana soakaway .
drenj on larger roofs praha lead jala into the rainwater drainage pralil of any built up area .
occasionally chapat roofs though hain designed to collect jala in a pool , praha for aesthetic purposes , or for rainwater buffering .
Flat roofs exist all over the world and each chartel has its own tradition or preference liya materials prutt .
In warmer climes where rainfall is kaam aor freezing is unlikely to occur , many flat roofs are simply built of masonry or kantri and inse is shoh at keeping out the umsho of the sun aor susti and easy to build where timber is not readily apaalan .
In chatti jaha the roof could become srnpt by barat aor leak , or jaha water soaked into the brickwork could freeze to barf and yaun lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are nahi suitable .
Traditionally most flat roofs in the pachii sanaar meke use of tar or more praha tarol paper applied over chaat alakar to kharna a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in farr covered in baari to keep the suory 's heat , UV rays aor weather off it and helps protect it from cracking or blistering aor degradation .
chaat alakar is usually of plywood , chipboard or osb boards ( OSB = Oriented Strand Board , also gyat as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness .
the tarol coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid , heated in a tar kettle , or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued down and sealed together at joints by hot tarol - once it has cooled , the gravel is syer evenly over it .
a main karnne liya failure of yaa traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance where people or events karna the baari to be moved or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing , yaun exposing it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually jala gets in .
tarpaper is praha a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tarol .
as baari can not protect tarpaper surfaces where vey rise vertically from the roof such as on munder walls or upstands , tarpaper variants are itpid saah fine gravel applied to the hot tarol dauran the prakm of manufacture such kiya a sthai layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship and training of those applying it to upaj adhek or kaam successful results .
in some sux climates or shaded ctetto these blki 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can pichla well in relation to the cost of materials purchase aor cost of laying unhe , however the cost of adhuok membranes such as epdm has aiye down over recent years to make them more aor more affordable .
There hain now more firms supplying adhun alternatives and there is generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability .
If a leak karta occur on a flat roof then khsti often goes unnoticed liya long periods of samay during jisse jala penetrates and soaks the alakar and any insull and/or dhana beneath it .
inse can seese to expensive damage isse the rot which often develops aor if bayn can weaken the roof structure .
There are also vinnin health risks to people and animals breathing the sache beoon : the severity of inse health rark remains a debated point .
One frboom with maintaining flat roofs is kiya if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long rasta before causing visible damage or leaking into a bhann where it can be seen .
yaun it is not asaan to see where it is leaking in anuom to mart it .
Once underlying roof alakar is soaked it often sags causing a further saghan or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens .
A cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed compact disc which contains data .
The naam is an exirmin jisse stands liya `` Compact Disc read-only memory `` .
Computers can read CD-ROMs , but can nahi write on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer tantra , including video khel aor multimedia arpon , halic any data can be nandrt ( up to the khshta limit of a disc ) .
kuch cds , called unta CDs , hold both computer ankda aor aodo with the latter capable of hona nimi on a CD player , abki data ( such as software or digital veeo ) is only usable on a computer ( aisa as ISO 9660 format pc cd-roms ) .
The Yellow kitab is the tanke standard kiya defines the format of cd-roms .
One of a niyat of color-bound books that contain the technical vishati liya all CD formats , the pila Book , created by sone and Philips , thay the first extension of kampett diskk dital Audio .
It adapted the swro to thami any form of data .
joon `` Jo '' roling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , kalmi naam J. K. Rowling , is a British novelist , behatin gyat as the lakkk of the Harry kumar fantasy series .
The Potter books have gained worldwide attention , won anek awards , and sold more than 400 million copies .
They have become the best-selling kitab shari in history , and been the adhar liya a series of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had overall approval on the scripts as khoo as maintaining creative control by serving as a nirma on the final instalment .
Born in Yate , Gloucestershire , roling was working as a shora and bilingual secretary liya Amnesty anthrri jajb she conceived the idea for the hairi Potter series on a vilat tren from Manchester to London in 1990 .
The seven-year period kiya followed entailed the moua of uske mother , talak from her first husband aor poverty until Rowling finished the pahlo ankh in the series , Harry Potter aor the Philosopher 's stoon ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently prik 6 kaa pichla , Harry Potter aor the deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) kaa khoo as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , Rowling parted with her agency and resumed writing in the form of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
roling has khaa dho is phala working on two kaa aimed liya adults , the anya for children younger than the hairi Potter audience , and she expects the latter to be published first .
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story , in which she progressed isse living on state labh to multi-millionaire akat bhitr pach xalo .
She is the sont Kingdom 's best-selling author since rikar began , with sales in excess of kaan .
The 2008 Sunday Times samrd List estimated Rowling 's fortune at kaa million ( $ 798 lakho ) , ranking her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom .
forbs ranked roling as the forty-eighth sabse satli celebrity of 2007 , and TIME magazine named her as a runner-up for isko 2007 Person of the saal , noting the social , moral , and political inspiration dho raai diye her fans .
in October 2010 , roling was named the `` sabse Influential Woman in Britain '' by leading magazine editors .
dho has become a notable philanthropist , supporting aisa charities as Comic rahta , One Parent Families , Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great bretten and Lumos ( formerly the children 's High Level smoh ) .
auburndale is a city in Polk County , Florida , United raay .
The population was 11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005 , the city had a population of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland kaa shit Haven Metropolitan Statistical chartel .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit dauran Expedition 7 of the International sgec stashon .
The nazar , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands , vishan of tivra cyclones , are clearly visible in this view from space .
a tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure center surrounded by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen jajb water evaporated isse the ocean is released as the srnpt air rises , resulting in condensation of jala vapor contained in the moist aeyr .
They hain fueled by a different umsho yantii than anya cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters , uoripy windstorms , and polar lows .
The characteristic kiya separates tivra cyclones isse other cyclonic systems is that at any height in the atmosphere , the center of a tivra cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` garma core `` tufan systems .
The term `` tivra '' refers both to the geographical origin of these systems , which praha form in tivra regions of the globe , and to their gathan in maritime tropical aeyr masses .
The term `` ccvar '' refers to aisa tufan ' cyclonic priti , with counterclockwise wind prava in the Northern Hemisphere aor clockwise wind flow in the dhasinn Hemisphere .
The vipart disha of the wind prava is a result of the Coriolis force .
Depending on its location and strength , a tropical cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm , cyclonic tufan , tivra vasad , and simply cyclone .
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely powerful hawan and torrential barat , they are also able to upaj unche waves , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
vey develop over visal laase of warm water , and lose their strength if they move over land due to increased surface friction aor loss of the garma ocean as an urja source .
This is why coastal regions can prapt significant khsti from a tropical cyclone , while inland regions are acrat safe isse receiving strong winds .
Heavy rains , however , can produce significant flooding inland , aor storm surges can produce extensive tatiy flooding up to isse the coastline .
halki their effects on human populations can be devastating , tivra cyclones can relieve drought conditions .
vey also carry heat urja away from the cindhnn aor transport it toward temperate latitudes , which makes them an important part of the global dovelin circulation mechanism .
As a result , tropical cyclones help to maintain suntal in the Earth 's troposphere , and to maintain a relatively stable aor warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical cyclones develop when the atmospheric conditions around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable .
the background environment is modulated by climatological cycles aor patterns such as the madden-julian oscillation , El kaa Oscillation , and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation .
anya roop when other parkar of cyclones acquire tivra characteristics .
tivra systems are taba stint by purahla winds in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
on the anya end of the nark , if the sharte around the praliy deteriorate or the tropical ccvar makes landfall , the system weakens and hakar dissipates .
It is nahi possible to artificially induce the dissipation of yaa prilonin with current technology .
Kirk dgals ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; dismar 9 , 1916 ) is an American stet and film actor , filli nirma and lakkk .
His popular films include aut of the Past ( 1947 ) , chainn ( 1949 ) , Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ) , The kharab and the khubte ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ) , Lust liya jivan ( 1956 ) , Paths of Glory ( 1957 ) , gunfight at the O.K . corral ( 1957 ) , the wannix ( 1958 ) , Spartacus ( 1960 ) , Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in May ( 1964 ) , The Heroes of telemark ( 1965 ) and muskl yaro ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the amri Film Institute 's list of the mataam male American screen legends of seb time , banana him the highest-ranked living person on the list .
In 1996 , he received the Academy Honorary Award `` for 50 years as a creative and moral force in the gati picture community . ''
He is one of the pichla surviving actors from Hollywood 's `` golden age '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6 , 1945 ) is an American rock aor fenke singer-songwriter , guitarist and pianist .
As a locally kamab Detroit-area artist , he performed and recorded as Bob Seger and the Last sona and bob seger System throughout the 1960s .
By the early 1970s , he thaa dropped the `` System '' from his recordings and continued to niet for broader kama with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver goli Band , a group of Detroit-area musicians , with whom he became most successful on the nashl level with the album Live Bullet , recorded seav saah the candi Bullet band in 1975 at Cobo ghol in Detroit , mixang .
In 1976 , he hasil a national breakout saah the stiyi album Night Moves .
On his studio albums , he bhii worked extensively with the alabama-based Muscle Shoals laya khand , which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rakar with a clasic raspy , shouting voice , Seger wrote aor recorded songs that dealt with love , women , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger raai ankit many hitas , including `` Night chale , '' `` farre the Page , '' `` We 've mila Tonight , '' `` virdh the Wind , '' and shakedown kiya was written for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` jaise a Rock , '' and also co-wrote the egls ' number-one hit `` Heartache tonight . ''
uske iconic readiinin of `` Old Time Rock and Roll `` was named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning pach decades , Seger continues to perform aor rekar today .
seger was inducted into the Rock and fenk Hall of kitri in 2004 and the songwriters ghol of kitri in 2012 .
Richard milhous Nixon ( janri 9 , 1913 kaa April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States , serving from 1969 to 1974 , when he became the only president to resign the office .
Nixon had previously parosa as a Republican u.S. representative aor sintre from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
nisna thay born in yorba linda , California .
He graduated isse Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University School of Law in 1937 , returning to California to practice law .
he and uske biwi , Pat Nixon , moved to vashitn to karya for the federal government in 1942 .
he subsequently parosa in the United raay Navy dauran World War II .
nisna was elected in chllirniia to the House of Representatives in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the alger Hiss mamla established his pratha as a agri anti-communist , aor elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower , the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon served liya eight years as vice addhs .
He waged an unsuccessful addhisya aiaan in 1960 , narrowly losing to John F. kende , and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran again liya the presidency and was nicv .
Although nisna initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened raaicim sandh between the two nations , and he initiated kaa and the Anti-Ballistic Missile sandhi with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , uske administration generally embraced policies that transferred power from vashitnn to the states .
Among other things , he launched pahlo to lado cancer aor illegal drugs , imposed wage and price controls , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools , and established the prrviy surkha Agency .
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning with Apollo 11 , he scaled waps manned space exploration .
He thay re-elected by a bulknn in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of revelations prachy the vartag scandal and anya misconduct by members of the prashan .
the scandal escalated , costing nisna much of uske political support , and on agst 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the phans of almost nisht mhoooog and removal from office .
bada his ista , he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor , Gerald ghata .
in retirement , Nixon 's karya as an elder statesman , authoring anek books and undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his palcie image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18 , 1994 , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
{ { Infobox Senator
The doman gantar annexation treaty caused bitter contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
bredi 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to amri imperialism in the Caribbean aor fearful that annexation would seese to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of hatti , became convinced kiya bhathar lay piche the treaty , and that men bandh to the addhs shared in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate vidhe sandh kamit , Sen. Sumner initially withheld uske opinion on the sandhi on janri 18 , 1870 .
Sen. sumner thaa marhu leaked information from shauk Secretary of State , bancroft Davis , that U.S . naval ships were being used to protect President kaa .
Sen. sumner 's kamit voted against annexation and at Sen. kaa suwa aor quite sansht to shej the party isse an ugly fight or the addhs isse embarrassment , the sinte held its bhaas of the sandhi behind closed doors in executive session .
addhs Grant persisted and sent sansee to cornes in favor of annexation on March 14 , 1870 , aor may 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. sumner spoke out virdh the treaty ; warnng kiya vahi would be difficulty with the foreign naroim , noting the chronic vidro that took plale on the island , and the risk kiya the independence of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be khoya .
sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. neve as a protectorate thay a ulnn of anthriy law and asaakin .
hakar , on June 30 , 1870 the sandhi was voted on by the Senate and pifal to labh the jarri 2/3 majority for treaty doohi .
The following day , President grant , aaaas betrayed by Sen. Sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa close dost J. Lothrop motley , dut to bretten .
by autumn , sumner 's personal dusmon to the president was palcie knowledge , and he blamed the Secretary of raay liya failing to have resigned , rather than let Grant have his rasta .
The dho meen , friends until then , cooled into kadwa enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo domon somehow , Sumner gave a fiercely critical speech accusing the addhs of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary of raay hamati machli , thaa initiated a aiaan to depose sumner from the addcht of the Senate Foreign sandh kamit .
halic Sumner stated he thay an `` prashan man '' , in jod to having stopped grant 's doman Republic treaty attempt , Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act , blocked Grant 's naman of sikder Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury , and been a constant harassing force pushing punman policies faster than Grant thaa been willing to go .
Grant resented Sumner 's badpan of manner , as well .
Told once that sumner did not believe in the bael , the addhs is supposed to have khaa that he was nahi surprised : `` he did n't likhe it . ''
As the darar between Grant aor Sumner increased , kaa health began to decline .
jajb the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on kuch 4 , 1871 , sitro affiliated with President grant , known as kaa kaa voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate vidhe Relations kamit chairmanship .
Business achar ( also corpetto ethics ) is a form of lagoo ethics or pesher ethics that examines netak sidaa aor moral or netak problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies to all aspects of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire santhan .
Business ethics has both normative and descriptive aaman .
As a corporate practice and a karir specialization , the field is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to understand business bartav employ warnat methods .
the range and quantity of business netak issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior saah non-economic concerns .
Interest in caaar ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s , dano within major corporations and within academia .
liya example , aage most major corporations promote their commitment to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes aor social jimar charters .
Adam Smith said , `` People of the same trade seldom mile together , even for merriment and diversion , but the talva ends in a dhantar virdh the public , or in kuch contrivance to raise prices . ''
sarke uppg laws and regulations to point caaar bartav in what they perceive to be faade directions .
achar implicitly regulates areas aor details of behavior that suth purar governmental control .
the emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the smando in jisse they operate trat the vikas of accric ethics regimes .
a barna is a type of injury to flesh or seecen caused by umsho , electricity , chemicals , garhhan , or radiation .
Most burns affect tabhi the sathi skin ( known as sathi or first degree ) or extend into the deeper skin lackin do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( gyat as partial moti or duori degree ) .
Rarely seb layers of the sikne or deeper tissues , such as masispi or asthi can be ghal in jisse case the burn is either pura moti ( third degree ) or chath degree .
The treatment jarri depends on the severity of the barna .
Superficial burns sansht pranh with choti more than simple paida hattra while major burns may require prolonged treatment in specialized burn centers .
Cooling with tap jala may aid pain and decrease damage however if exapar is prolonged it may result in kaam body temperature .
Partial thickness burns may require cleaning with soap and jala followed by dressings .
pholo should typically be left unbroken .
purr thickness burns praha aakta saral treatments aisa as skin grafting aor extensive burns often require visal amount of intravenous fluids .
The most common complications of burns hain samnin to sankan .
While visal burns can be fatal , modern treatments viksit in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes , especially in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million people talas medical treatment and 300,000 people die isse burns .
In the United States , of those admitted to a burn center , approximately 4 % die isse their choto .
The long term outcome is primarily related to the akar of burn and the aoo of the person effected .
The atalac Ocean , nahi including Arctic and Antarctic regions
This video was liya by the crew of expedition 29 on board the ISS .
The pass starts from just north-east of the Island of Newfoundland over the North atalac smander to central Africa , over South Sudan .
The atalac Ocean is the second-largest of the world 's oceanic vinaan .
With a total area of about , it covers approximately 20 percent of the Earth 's satah and about 29 percent of its water satah chartel .
the pahlo part of its name refers to Atlas of yuni mythology , banana the atalac the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest known zikr of `` Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 bc ( Hdt . 1.202.4 ) : atalint thlla ( yuni : kaa kaa ; angrij : smadra of Atlas ) .
The pada Ethiopic Ocean , nikla from ithya , thay lagoo to the dhasinn Atlantic as late as the mid-19th sadi .
pahlo Europeans khoja other oceans , the term `` smander '' itself thay synonymous saah the waters pura the Strait of jiblert that we abhi know as the atalac .
the jaldi Greeks believed inse ocean to be a gigantic river encircling the sanaar .
The Atlantic smander occupies an elongated , S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia aor Africa to the istt , and the Americas to the vaste .
As one component of the interconnected global smander , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( jisse is sometimes considered a smadra of the atalac ) , to the Pacific Ocean in the chhdshad , the Indian sander in the southeast , and the Southern Ocean in the south .
( Other definitions describe the Atlantic as extending southward to ataric . )
the equator subdivides it into the North atalac smander and dhasin Atlantic smander .
Due to their long-term hath , and the need for a unique identifier in issuing forecasts and warnings , tropical cyclones aor subtropical cyclones are given names according to policy ( see tivra ccvaat naming ) .
The following hain lists isse jisse these tivra and upphsn cyclone names are derived .
swath light is dispersed by a prism into the colors of the atpical spectrum .
The visible spectrum is the portion of the elactictenne spectrum kiya is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation in inse daura of wavelengths is called visible layit or simply layit .
A typical human nazar will respond to wavelengths isse prachy 390 to 700 nm .
In sharte of frequency , this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa THz .
A light-adapted nazar generally has isko adatam sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ) , in the grean region of the optical nark ( see : luminosity jalne ) .
The spectrum does not , however , contain all the colors that the human eyes and brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors aisa as pink , or purple variations such as magenta , hain absent , liya example , because vey can be bana only by a mix of anek wavelengths .
Colors containing only eke wavelength are also called pure rango .
drasy wavelengths pass through the `` optical khide `` , the region of the electromagnetic spectrum which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
An udarn of this phenomenon is that clean air scatters blue layit more than red wavelengths , and so the midday sky appears bllu .
the optical window is also pukra the dras window cumi it overlaps the human visible response spectrum .
the nikat infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the human dushi , as khoo as the Medium wavelength ir ( MWIR ) window and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though anya animals may experience them .
Many species can dekhi light with frequencies outside the `` dras spectrum , '' which is parah in terms of insan dushi .
Bees aor many anya kiet can detect parani light , jisse helps them find nectar in flowers .
santrr species that nirra on insect pollination may owe reproductive success to their appearance in paragi light , rather than kasa rangnn vey appear to humans .
Birds , too , can see into the ultraviolet ( kaa nm ) , and some have sex-dependent markings on unko plumage kiya hain visible only in the ultraviolet daura .
Many pesu kiya can dekhi into the paragi range , however , can not see red light or any other reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' dras spectrum ends at about 590nm , just before the orange wavelengths start .
Birds , however , can dekhi kuch red wavelengths , laciin not as many as humans .
zebras ( or ) are several species of African equids ( horse puria ) united by their distinctive black and white dharnn .
unko stripes come in different patterns , adviti to each individual .
They are generally sowal animals that live in small harems to large herds .
Unlike their closest relatives , ghode and asses , zebras have never marum truly domesticated .
vahi are three species of zebras : the maidan zebra , the kaa 's jabra aor the mountain zebra .
the plains zebra and the mountain jabra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , but kaa 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus .
the latter resembles an ass , to which it is closely related , while the former dho are more horse-like .
All three belong to the genus Equus , along with other jeena equids .
The adviti stripes of zebras make them one of the pesu most familiar to people .
They occur in a variety of habitats , such as grasslands , savannas , woodlands , thorny scrublands , mountains , aor tatiy hills .
however , vinnin anthropogenic carom have had a severe impact on zebra populations , in particular hunting for khale and habitat destruction .
kaa 's zebra and the pahad zebra are endangered .
While plains zebras hain much more plentiful , one subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the late 19th century kaa though there is currently a plan , called the Quagga Project , kiya aims to breed zebras that hain phenotypically saaman to the quagga in a process called breeding back .
Barry swats , born Barry yujin Carter ( kaa ) , was an American composer and singer-songwriter .
a two-time grami Award -winner gyat for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image , White 's greatest kama came in the 1970s as a solo singer and saah the Love Unlimited Orchestra , crafting anek enduring soul , durg , and disco songs aisa as uske two biggest hits , `` You 're the First , the Last , My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love , Babe . ''
Along saah Isaac Hayes , swath is maano by Allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the jaldi 1970s .
During the course of uske career in the music business , swath achieved 106 gold albums worldwide , 41 of jisse also attained platinum status .
White had 20 sunha and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide sales in excess of 100 million , according to critics Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan .
His praaav shaml Rev . James Cleveland , Ray Charles , Aretha frichin plals motown artists The Supremes , the haarr Tops aor Marvin Gaye .
Angelina goli ( , born anjl Jolie Voight ; juon 4 , 1975 ) is an American actress , film director , aor screenwriter .
She has received an Academy Award , two Screen Actors Guild pukra , aor three Golden Globe Awards , and was named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes , aor is noted for her work with refugees as a khaas Envoy and former Goodwill dut for the sont Nations High Commissioner liya Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as the sanaar 's `` most beautiful '' stri , a sherak for which dho has received substantial midia dhaan .
goli made her serin debut as a child alongside uske pita jon vout in Lookin ' to milenge Out ( 1982 ) , but her filli career began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
uske pahlo leading bumk in a major film thay in the cyber-thriller hear ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films zarg Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ) , and won an adami Award for Best Supporting aahiti for her prashan in the drama ladke , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
goli achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video khel heroine Lara Croft in Lara Croft : mabra redrer ( 2001 ) , and established herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood saah the sequel the Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She gari her action star career saah Mr. & mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated commercial successes to kaa received further critical acclaim for her prashan in the dramas A mighty Heart ( 2007 ) aor Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a naman liya an Academy Award liya behatin Actress .
Jolie made uske directorial debut saah the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ) .
talak from actors jani liele milar aor Billy Bob thrtnn , Jolie now jivana with karta Brad Pitt , in a relationship notable for fervent media dhaan .
Jolie and pitt have three biological children and tinn adopted children .
a natural mahra utpid by the erosion of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
apadn is the prakm by which marda and chatan hain removed from the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes such as wind or jala prava , and then transported and deposited in other sthai .
While erosion is a pratic process , insan activities have increased by 10-40 times the rayte at which erosion is occurring globally .
excessive erosion causes problems such as marularin , decreases in agricultural productivity due to land degradation , sedimentation of waterways , and ecological patan due to loss of the nutrient samdh upper soil layers .
jala and hona erosion are abhi the dho primary kanari of land degradation ; combined , they hain responsible for 84 % of degraded acreage , banana excessive apadn one of the most significant global environmental problems .
Industrial agriculture , deforestation , roads , anthropogenic climate change aor shari sprawl hain amongst the sabse significant human kremone in lila to their praaav on stimulating erosion .
however , there are many available alternative land use practices kiya can curtail or limit apadn , aisa as chaat -building , no-till agriculture , and revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on MTV from dismar 3 , 2009 to December 20 , 2012 in the United States .
The series follows the lives of eight housemates bita their summer at the Jersey Shore in the u.S. state of nayi Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the thanda northeast shit to miya Beach , with Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore .
The fourth season , filmed in itli , premiered on August 4 , 2011 .
The show returned for a paavo season , at Seaside Heights on janri 5 , 2012 .
The paavo ritu finale aired on March 15 , 2012 .
On kuch 19 , 2012 , amveti pushi that the series would wapsi liya unko chate season .
On August 30 , 2012 , MTV announced kiya the shari hoga end after the chate season , which premiered on aktru 4 .
the series finale aired on December 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / guidette , '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes , aor scrutiny from locals cumi the cast members were not residents of the area .
the shari garnered record ratings for amveti , making it the sajal 's sabse viewed series telecast ever .
The shari ' cast have also been credited with introducing unique lexicon and phrases into amri popular culture .
The vilhoov of Chicago aor the University of ohla are among the shank santhon that have had classes or conferences about the show .
In 2010 , the daala of jarsi Shore thay named on barba walters ' 10 sabse fascinating logo list , aor the series has since been exported to darno of countries worldwide .
There are anek remakes of the dikha in other deso , saah two set in the United Kingdom ; the well gyat Geordie shore , set in Newcastle upon Tyne , England .
The other is the Valleys , the Welsh equivalent , which is filmed aor set in Cardiff .
The only other official remake of the dikha is kaa Shore , set in kaa , sepan .
right
United States territory is any extent of region under the chastar of the sanhhy government of the sont States , sahit seb waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) and seb U.S . Naval vessels .
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign adhrol for exploring , exploiting , conserving , aor menjing its territory .
This extent of territory is all the chartel belonging to , aor under the dominnen of , the United States sanhhy government ( jisse shaml tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative aor other purposes .
The United raay kool territory shaml a subset of raaatic vinan .
The U.S. government is a government with prativet shatiyo antra the sont States Constitution .
`` The powers nahi delegated to the United raay by the Constitution , nor prohibited by it to the raay , hain reserved to the States respectively , or to the people '' by the daswa Amendment .
Terminator 3 : vrdhi of the mashen ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 vigaan fiction action film directed by jathn Mostow aor starring arndn Schwarzenegger , upna Stahl , Claire Danes aor Kristanna loken .
it is the duori sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ) .
After ckinent fails to kill Sarah Connor before uske bete is born aor to kill John himself as a child , it sends waps another Terminator , the t-x , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible .
This includes John 's future biwi , but not John himself as uske whereabouts hain unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is placed in khatre jajb the t-x accidentally finds him .
A cord of wood
The cord is a kayi of measure of shusk volume used in Canada and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the amount of wood kiya , jajb `` ranked and well stowed '' ( arranged so pieces hain aligned , parallel , choo and compact ) , occupies a aage of .
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high , long , aor deep ; or any other arrangement of linear measurements that yields the vahi volume .
the naam cord probably comes isse the use of a cord or string to measure it .
The , is an 8-bit handheld video khel device viksit and manufactured by Nintendo .
It was released in Japan on , in North America in , and in Europe on .
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy line , and was created by Gunpei yokoi and neeto shadh & Development 1 kaa same staff jau had designed the Game & dekhe series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
redesigned versions were released in 1996 aor 1998 , in the form of khel ladke Pocket , and Game ladke Light ( Japan only ) , respectively .
the Game ladke is Nintendo 's duori handa system following the Game & dekhe series introduced in , and it sonte shuvien isse both the nento Entertainment System and khel & dekhe .
It thay originally bundled with the pahle game Tetris .
as bhag of the fourth generation of gaming , the Game ladke competed with the Sega Game Gear , Atari linnx , and the TurboExpress .
Despite yaa other technologically superior handheld consoles , the khel Boy was a jwart success .
The Game Boy and its successor , the Game Boy Color , have both sont bechi 118.69 million units worldwide .
Upon its reezl in the United States , it sold its entire sipment of one million ikii within sapath .
the World Trade bech is a complex of buildings under construction in Lower minthen , nayi yaak City , United States , replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings saahh the same name on the same sayit .
the original World Trade bech featured landmark twin minare , jisse khole on arpyl 4 , 1973 and were nasht in the September 11 attacks of 2001 , along with 7 sanaar Trade bech .
The other imatre in the jatl were chustit in the hamle , aor their ruins were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers and a memorial to those killed in the hamle .
, only one skyscraper has been completed ; the other four are expected to be smapt pahlo 2020 .
One sanaar wapar Center will be the lead building for the new complex , reaching more than 100 khaninn at isko completion .
It became the tallest building in New yaak City on April 30 , 2012 , and is expected to be finished by 2013 .
A sixth minar is awaiting confirmation .
At the samay of unko completion , the asli 1 World Trade Center ( the utar minar ) and 2 World Trade bech ( the South Tower ) , known collectively as the `` Twin Towers '' , were the tallest buildings in the world .
The other buildings included 3 WTC ( the marte sanaar Trade Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC , and 7 WTC .
seb of these imarte yau built between 1975 and 1985 .
The lagat liya the construction thay $ 400 lakho ( $ in dollars ) .
The complex was located in the heart of nayi York City 's downtown financial district and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 lakho m2 ) of daftr space .
the World Trade Center experienced a fire on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 aor a robbery on , 1998 .
In 1998 , the Port Authority decided to privatize the World Trade Center , leasing the buildings to a private compnni to manage , and awarded the lease to Silverstein gune in .
On the morning of September 11 , 2001 , Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the complex , one into each tower , in a sannit atwacedi attack .
After burning liya 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by the utar Tower ( 1 ) , with the hamle on the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753 mauto .
girna debris from the towers , combined saah fires that the debris initiated in several surrounding buildings , led to the aanic or complete collapse of all the other buildings in the jatl and caused antrik khsti to teen other large structures in the surrounding area .
The process of cleanup and recovery at the World wapar Center sayit took arth months .
Over the following years , yonna for a rebuilt World Trade Center took form .
The pahlo nayi building at the site thay 7 World wapar Center , jisse opened in .
The nimnar Manhattan vikas Corporation ( lmdc ) , sthpt in to oversee the rebuilding process , visth competitions to select a site yagana and marrolor design .
Memory Foundations , designed by deniyl libeskind , was selected as the master plan , but this went through substantial changes in denain .
The new World wapar Center jatl hoga shaml One World wapar Center , tinn other high-rise daftr towers , and the nashl September 11 Memorial & samrrhle .
San Gabriel Mountains
San bernardino Mountains , saahh Mt . San gorgonio in the foreground and Big Bear Lake in the fushri .
the Transverse Ranges hain a group of mountain ranges of southern California , in the Pacific coast siemon physiographic pradesh in North amriaa .
the Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the California Coast siemon and lie between santa Barbara aor San deego counties .
They derive the naam Transverse siemon due to their East-West anvicas , making them transverse to the general North-South orientation of most of California 's coastal mountains .
Periodic talac with ilcrlitn shewl
an electron shell may be thought of as an orbit followed by electrons around an ano 's nucleus .
The closest shell to the cendrak is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` l shell '' ) , then the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` M shell '' ) , and so on dhur aor dhur from the nucleus .
The shell ashrr k , L , M , ... , used in the X-ray santee , are alphabetical .
Each shell can contain tabhi a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can thaam up to two electrons , the 2nd shell can thaam up to arth electrons , the 3rd shell can thaam up to 18 , and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on .
chunki electrons hain electrically attracted to the cendrak , an ano 's electrons will generally occupy outer shewl only if the adhek inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this is nahi a strict requirement : Atoms may have two or even three incomplete bahari shells .
( See Madelung niem liya more vivar . )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in these shells see electron configuration .
The electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shells ) determine the chemical properties of the ano ; it is called the valence shell .
pratk shewl consists of one or adhek subshells , and each subshell consists of one or more paron orbitals .
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( kaa Hogan ; November 28 , 1967 kaa farr 8 , 2007 ) , gyat by uske moniker Anna nikol Smith , was an American model , actress , and television ittc .
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy , becoming the 1993 Playmate of the Year .
She modeled for clothing compannon , sahit Guess jins and Lane Bryant .
smith dropped aut of high school aor was married in 1985 .
Her atdich publicized duori marriage to aala business mogul , J. Howard marsha , 62 years her senior , resulted in atkele that dho married the octogenarian for his dhan , which she asvec .
following Marshall 's death , Smith began a lengthy vidak battle over a share of his estate .
uske case , Marshall v. Marshall , reached the U.S. pram Court on a question of federal jurisdiction , aor again on a sawal of dipana adalt authority ( now called stern v. marsha ) .
smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , Florida hotel rum as a result of an overdose of nuska drugs .
Within the phaila chaa months of uske life , smith was the foss of a renewed press karve surrounding the death of her bete , Daniel , and the paternity aor catdii battle over her vanat daughter , Dannielynn .
The is one denomination of japani yaan .
The varman denain was first minted in 1959 using japani characters known as the `` new script `` , and yhood also minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters .
five-yen sikke date to 1870 ( when , due to the much higher value of the yeen , they were minted in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice santrr growing out of the water , with `` five yen '' written in kanji ; the back is stamped with `` Japan '' aor the year of issue , bhii in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic elements of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries , the key elements of the Japanese first-sector economy .
Around a chade , there is a gear that represents industry .
It is the only japani coin in circulation to lack Arabic numerals on either face .
tlc is an amri girl smoh whose repertoire spanned R & B , hep hop , attm , funk , and new jack sula .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' wantala , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer Rozonda `` chilli '' Thomas , the smoh found unprecedented success in the 1990s abki bhii enduring a series of spats saah the law , each other , and the smoh 's rakar label .
initially , TLC achieved wyniik success following the reezl of their debu ellam ooooooohhh ...
on the TLC tep , which bechi 6 million copies worldwide .
However , it was their second ellam , crazysexycool , that catapulted the group to superstar status .
CrazySexyCool gari on to be certified damn by the RIAA kaa a first liya a female group , aor hakar sold 23 lakho copies worldwide .
Five xalo later , the smoh released unko tisra album FanMail , jisse became the group 's first album to debut at number eke aor bechi adhek than 11 million copies worldwide .
The subsequent tour following FanMails release became the utcham grossing daura of all time by a female band .
In 2002 , lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car accident in Honduras .
Seven mahino later , t-boz aor Chilli released the group 's fourth ellam 3D , which sold 2 million copies worldwide , it featured unreleased vocals from bayn Eye .
Billboard magazine crem tlc as one of the greatest musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003 , the band accumulated ten shers teen singles , haar number eke singles , four multi-platinum albums , and haar Grammy Awards .
at the end of 1999 , TLC was ranked as the seventh sabse successful adhinn of the 1990s by bilorbid .
In 2008 , the smoh was inducted into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of kitri by the same patricoa , at 56th place .
That year it was also sudhhd as the # 25 R & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has bechi adhek than 65 lakho raadar wisy aor they are ranked as the duori best selling female group of all time , and the best selling mada R & B smoh of all samay .
In 2012 , TLC crem 12th on VH1 's 100 mataam Women in muck , being crem the cramak one seb ladki group on that suchi .
tarjan is a 1999 amri animated adherer film itpit by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt dijne Pictures .
the 37th film in the Walt Disney anaemed Classics , it is based on the story tarjan of the Apes by Edgar Rice barof , and is the only prmuk motion hitrr version of the story Tarzan property to be animated .
Directed by criss Buck and Kevin Lima with a screenplay by Tab Murphy , Bob Tzudiker , and Noni swath , Tarzan features the aave of toni Goldwyn , minnie Driver , Glenn Close , and rogi O'Donnell with Brian dhani , Lance henriksen , Wayne Knight , and nigal Hawthorne .
it thay the last bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the jaldi 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its purvitin hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the samay of its release , isko production baje of $ 130 lakho made it the most expensive animated film kahi made , until awal by dijnne 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
it thay bhii the first Disney animated feature to open at # 1 since Pocahontas .
This was the pichla major box office kamay of the Disney punna .
aal Platform P-51 off the brayay coast is a semi-submersible platform .
aala platform Mittelplate in the North sea
An aala platform , ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a large structure with suvition to drill wells , to extract aor prakm oil and natural gas , aor to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and wipan .
In many mamle , the mach contains facilities to haas the workforce as well .
Depending on the circumstances , the platform may be fixed to the smander manjil , may consist of an artificial island , or may flache .
Remote subsea wells may also be connected to a platform by flow lines aor by umbilical konnsocs .
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea wells , or of one or more manifold centres for anek wells .
Slaughter is the killing of animals , usually that of domestic livestock for food .
the pesu most commonly slaughtered for khana hain cattle , water buffalo ( for beff and veal ) , sheep , goats ( for lamb aor matnn ) , pigs ( for pork ) , horses ( liya horse meat ) , and fowl , largely morooni , turkeys , and ducks aor increasingly fish isse the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ) .
The White House , the president 's official residence aor center of the administration
antra the United States swanhann , the addhs of the United States is the head of raay and head of government of the sont States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the presidency is the highest raaatic office in the United States by influence aor manta .
the addhs is also the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
The addhs is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of prtthin should the Electoral College fail to award an absolute bhuut of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second amendment to the United raay Constitution in 1951 , no person may be nicv addhs more than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a pada to which someone else was nicv may be nicv more than once .
Upon the death , ista , or removal from office of an lalima President , the Vice President assumes the office .
The addhs jarur be at tanik 35 years of age aor a `` natural born '' citizen of the sont States .
inse list shaml only those wantoon who yau sworn into office as president following the ratification of the United States Constitution , which took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
liya American leaders before this ratification , see addhs of the Continental corgens .
The list does not include any ectitning Presidents under the Twenty-fifth amendment to the sont States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as goor Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as dano the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , haar died in office of natural causes ( William Henry harsic , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. harding , and Franklin D. rujvelt ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham lincoln , jems A. Garfield , William McKinley , and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard nisna ) .
George vashitn , the first president , was adatan in 1789 after a sarvat vote of the Electoral kalag .
leveu Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in daftar with 32 days in 1841 , aor Franklin D. Roosevelt karhh the longest with over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the tabhi president to serve adhek than two terms , aor a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after hairi Truman , thay passed to limit the number of tammias an individual can be nicv president .
Andrew Jackson , the satva president , was the first to be elected by men of seb classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from matan were repealed .
Warren harding was the first elected after malaon gained voting adhro in 1920 .
History rikar four presidents kaa John q adms , rafdor B. haz , Benjamin Harrison and zarg W. bosh kaa who lost the popular vote laciin assumed office .
John F. Kennedy has been the tabhi president of Roman chalic faith , and the varman president , Barack Obama , is the first president of afri descent .
Several firearms with detachable suppressors , isse shers to niche : An Uzi , An AR-15 , a Heckler & koch USP Tactical , A beretta 92FS , and a SIG Mosquito .
Bolt karve rimfire rifle saahh suppressor
AWM-F sniper rail with attached suppressor .
A suppressor , sound suppressor , or sound moderator , is a device attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , and usually the rashi of muzzle flash , generated by firing the weapon .
A suppressor can be used both with a firearm aor with compressed aeyr gaane .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , inse term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a projectile , especially one chalti faster than the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater than 300 meters ) can lessen , or retard , the report at the moment of impact , and create the impression of silence near the target .
The noise heard near the muzzle as a projectile pette the barul , though subdued , is not silent at all .
A suppressor is praha a metal cylinder saah internal mechanisms to reduce the dhani of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the gati of the bullet .
Early suppressors were nirm around the beginning of the 20th century by several aarika .
amri inventor Hiram Percy khat ( not to be confused saah Hiram Stevens khat , Hiram prssi 's pita , and the aarika of the Maxim Machine Gun ) , is credited with inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim gave his device the trademarked name Maxim Silencer .
The muffler liya atric combustion injan was viksit in parallel with the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the early 20th sadi , using anek of the same techniques to provide quieter-running engines ( in anek European deso atmolo mufflers are still called silencers ) .
The sabd silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in faili upag , although it has chunki fallen out of hasna saah some , especially among the firearms industry , hona replaced with the more literally steek term dhani suppressor or baae suppressor , because a `` sound suppressor '' does nahi `` khasi '' any hathir , blki it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonk pressure of a firearm discharging .
aam usage aor U.S. legislative language favor the historically earlier pada , silencer .
In u.S. vidhi , the sharte `` firearm muffler '' and `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous .
Suppressors yhood regularly used by agents of the United States Office of rentik Services , who favored the newly designed High Standard hdm .22 Long Rifle pistl during World War II .
OSS nidsk William Joseph `` Wild Bill '' doon demonstrated the pistol for President Franklin D. rujvelt at the White House .
According to OSS shadh chief Stanley Lovell , doon ( an old and visewia dost of the addhs ) was harra into the owal daftr , jaha rujvelt thay dictating a letter .
While Roosevelt smapt his message , Donovan turned uske waps and fired ten shots into a sandbag he thaa brought saah ussy , hogt kaya he thaa done and haat the smoking ganne to the astonished addhs .
The British soe ( Special Operations kariila ) Welrod assassination pistol with an ahin suppressor thay also prutt by the American OSS on clandestine purahla in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second sanaar hudd .
beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur ( May 13 , 1922 kaa April 25 , 2009 ) thay an amri aahiti , comedienne , and singer jinke career spanned seven saako .
Arthur achieved fame as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the Family and Maude , aor as dorth Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden ladkoyan , winning ami Awards for dano bimiin .
a stage actress both before and after her talvin success , she jeet the toni Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical for her prashan as Vera Charles in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the Tekken video game shari , produced by Digital Frontier aor distributed by Asmik Ace entertainment in association saah Bandai Entertainment .
the film premiered in North amriaa by Bandai entertainment on julaya 26 , 2011 , aor in altrtara on July 27 , 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening .
It thay released on September 3 , 2011 in japani .
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on November 22 , 2011 for USA , and dismar 1 , 2011 liya Japan .
This film thay also released on dvd on November 22 , 2011 ( 2D Version only ) .
The film thay additionally included with the PlayStation 3 khel , tekken sankar , and the Nintendo 3DS title , tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For a chara of nonprofit , voluntary neighborhood advocacy groups , see paros samnh .
In the sont raay , a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a real aste developer for the purpose of wipan , managing , and selling of ghero and lots in a residential subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit financial aor legal jimar of the organization , typically by transferring swatt of the association to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined cramak of laut .
sasta in the homeowners samnh by a aavis khadar is typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't diye an option to reject it .
Most homeowner associations are incorporated , and hain subject to state statutes kiya govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
raay oversight of homeowner assionn is minimal , and mainly takes the form of laws which are inconsistent from raay to state .
Some states , aisa as Florida and chllrnfiiro , have a large deh of homeowner samnh law , and some states , aisa as Massachusetts , have virtually no homeowner samnh law .
The tivram growing form of housing in the sont States today is common-interest developments ( CIDs ) , a shari that shaml planned-unit developments of single-family homes , condominiums , and sahari armeten .
Since 1964 , homeowner assionnen have become increasingly common in the USA .
the Community Associations Institute trade association anaut that HOAs governed 24.8 lakho amri homes aor 62 lakho neeoone in 2010 .
A prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
There are many breeds of ginne suar which have been developed since its domestication ca . 5000 BC .
Breeds vary widely in roop and purpose , ranging from dikha breeds with long , bahti hair to those in use as maal organisms by science .
From ca . 1200 ad to the Spanish conquest of the Inca samay in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous South amri peoples resulted in many varieties of rehlu Guinea pigs , jisse roop the basis for some of the adhunk domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds yau primarily kept as agricultural nhadar for food , and efforts at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the adhuok era .
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century , the lashy in breeding shifted to foss on the vikas of appealing pets .
to this smapt , various prashi breeding organizations were founded by fanciers .
the amri Cavy Breeders Association , an adjunct to the American ragho Breeders samnh , is the governing deh in the United raay and kanda .
The British Cavy prashad governs cavy clubs in the United kidam .
saaman organizations exist in alrtaraa ( Australian National Cavy Council ) and New Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each club publishes its own Standard of Perfection and determines which breeds are yogya liya showing .
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st sadi .
Though there hain many breeds of Guinea pig , only a few breeds are commonly mila on the dikha table as paltu .
Most Guinea suor found as paltu were either mila undesirable by breeders or were bred to be pleasant pets regardless of kasa well they mile the nsal standard of perfection .
The short iaall , Abyssinian , Peruvian and sheltie ( aka Silkie ) breeds hain those most frequently seen as pets , and the purva three are the core breeds in the ithes of the competitive showing of Guinea suor .
in addition to their standard roop , nearly all breeds come in a satan variant .
Satins , due to their khola hair shafts , possess coats of a khaas gloss and shine .
however , there is growing evidence kiya the genes jimer for the satan coat also can karnne severe asthi problems , including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease .
Showing satan visaan is prohibited by some cavy breeders ' associations because of animal welfare reasons .
seb cavy breeds have some shared general standards : the head profile should be rounded , saahh large eyes and large , chikna ears .
the body chahe be madar and of compact build .
Coat ranga chahe in all variations be clearly parah and thorough from root to tip .
These standards are best mila by long established , commonly bred breeds , as their breeders have thad enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The kote ranga ideal of shoh definition aor thoroughness is rarely met by other than the chikna coated breeds , which have had khoo established , prath breeding lines liya different colours .
raay slooo ( bhii known as public sulcoon or government sulcoon ) generally refer to primary or secondary sulco mandated liya or offered to all children bagar charge paid liya , in whole or in part , by taxation .
The term may also refer to institutions of post-secondary sisha vitti , in whole or in bhag , aor overseen by government .
the ribosome assembles polymeric protin aoon whose sequence is controlled by the anurm of maxar RNA aoon .
This is required by all jeena cells and associated viruses .
the ribosome ( from ribonucleic esid aor the Greek soma , meaning `` deh '' ) is a visal aor complex molecular machine , mila bhitr seb living cells , kiya serves as the prathak site of biological protin synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link amnio acids together in the anuom specified by messenger rna ( mRNA ) molecules .
ribosomes consist of two major kaa small ribosomal subunit reads the mrna , abki the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is rchit of one or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) molecules aor a variety of proteins .
The anurm of diyne encoding liya a protein may be kalpi anek times into maxar rna ( mRNA ) chains of a saaman sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA kadi and use it as a template for determining the sahi sequence of amino acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids are chant , collected and carried to the ramoo by transfer rna ( tRNA molecules ) , which enter one bhag of the ribosome and bind to the maxar RNA chain .
The attached amino acids are taba linked together by another part of the ribosome .
akar the protin is produced , it can then 'fold ' to produce a vishit functional three-dimensional dacha .
a ribosome is made from complexes of RNAs and proteins and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ramoo is divided into two subunits : the choti subunit binds to the mRNA pattern , while the larger subunit bantaa to the trna and the amino acids .
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule , yaa two subunits split apart .
ribosomes are ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase kalp kiya links amino acids together is performed by the ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea aor eukaryotes ( the three domen of life on Earth ) differ in unko size , sequence , structure , and the ratio of protein to rna .
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to maar bacteria by inhibiting unko ribosomes , while leaving insan ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria aor archaea , more than one ribosome may move along a singl mRNA chain at one time , each `` reading '' its anurm and producing a corresponding protein molecule .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble many features of those in jivon , reflecting the likely vixadi origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude , Christian de Duve , and George Emil Palade were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in 1974 , for the discovery of the ribosomes .
The nabule Prize in Chemistry 2009 thay awarded to Venkatraman ramanh , thamas A. Steitz and Ada E. yonath liya determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The simplified internal structure of a chloroplast
awako of the Calvin sayal aor karbann fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and anya compounds into gooc .
These reactions occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
yaa pration take the light-dependent reactions and perform further chemical prinion on them .
There hain three phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively pukra the Calvin cycle : karbann fixation , katate reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( rubp ) regeneration .
Despite its name , this prakm occurs only jajb light is available .
Plants do not carry out the Calvin cycle by night .
They , bajay , reezl sucrose into the phloem from their mand reserves .
This prakm happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 karbann fixation , aor Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; kamo padhe storr malic acid in their vacuoles every night and reezl it by day in order to make this pram work .
In mathematics , a square number or perfect square is an purnk that is the varar of an purnk ; in other sabd , it is the product of some integer saah itself .
For example , 9 is a square cramak , chunki it can be written as .
The usual notation liya the formula for the vargar of a number is not the product , but the equivalent exponentiation , usually pronounced as `` squared '' .
The name varar number aata isse the name of the shape ; see below .
Square sakhnn are non-negative .
Another way of saying that a ( non-negative ) cramak is a square number , is kiya isko square roots are again integers .
For udarnn , = kaa , so 9 is a square number .
a positive integer that has no perfect varar divisors except 1 is pukra square-free .
For a non-negative integer , the th varar cramak is , with being the zeroth square .
The concept of varar can be extended to some other number systems .
If trant sakhnn hain shaml , then a square is the anpat of dho square integers , and , conversely , the ratio of two square integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , there hain square numbers up to and including , where the expression represents the manjil of the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political history of the United raay that reflected a sense of national purpose and a khish for unity among Americans in the aftermath of the napoleonic Wars .
the era saw the collapse of the federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan disputes between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party dauran the First Party prali .
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making uske nominations , with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics .
the period is so closely sandh with Monroe 's presidency ( kaa ) and his administrative lashy kiya his naam and the era are virtually synonymous .
the era of shoh Feelings marked a transition in amri rajanti with the end of the Federalist Party as amrraa began to develop after the War of 1812 .
abki America thay experiencing vikas aor prosperity after the war with Britain , this era bhii marks the first udarnn of arthec troubles in the growing sont raay .
Mirroring the amri System proposed by hanir mitti , protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second banko of the United States complicated the tension between the North and South saah the coming of the first financial sanket .
abki the term kaa of Good kaa is usually viewed with irony because of the political turmoil , economic factors caused animosity between the North and South .
The naman of the period by historians as one of kaa kaa is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the ithes of the era was one in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive , vishar among gira bhitr the Monroe administration aor the Republican parti .
The phrase kaa of Good kaa was coined by Benjamin rasll , in the Boston Federalist maatr , Columbian Centinel , on July 12 , 1817 , following Monroe 's vike to bostan , muccots as part of uske good will daura of America .
Mariel Margaret `` miya '' Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is a retired American professional soccer khili .
hamm played many years as a aage for the United raay women 's national sokar team and was a founding sasy of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international lashy , adhek than any other player , male or female , in the ithes of soccer and is the third most capped female khili in sokar ithes behind kristine Lilly aor cristil Rampone , appearing in 275 international matches .
Hamm was named the women 's phfa World Player of the Year the first dho times that award was diye ( in 2001 aor 2002 ) , and is sudhh as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by kaa ) .
dho was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as khoo as the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame and Texas khel Hall of Fame .
She is the lakkk of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer aor jivan aor appeared in the HBO virtar Dare to Dream : the stori of the U.S. Women 's sokar toli .
vashiton Post columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm , `` Perhaps the most important athlete of the last 15 years . ''
Hamm takes a corner laata .
The New York redd Bulls is an American professional soccer toli aarat in Harrison , nayi Jersey , representing the New York mahagar area .
The team competes in the poove smalne of Major League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is eke of the ten chatr clubs of mls , having competed in the ling since isko inception .
the team was a founding member of mls ( 1996 ) , lackin raai gone through several naam pravatin .
The team was originally gyat as the New York/New Jersey MetroStars through 1997 .
From the 1998 ritu through the 2005 season , the team thay known as the MetroStars .
on March 9 , 2006 , the team was sold to redh sand GmbH , agri to the toli 's current name .
They hain the tabhi original mls franchise not to have won any significant trophy ( including regular season , playoffs , and naat competition ) since inception .
The team 's best pranamn in the MLS was the MLS khap final in 2008 .
In the us Open Cup , the metrostars reached three semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , pahlo reaching unko first phaila in 2003 , khone kaa to the Chicago aag .
on agst 26 , 2000 , the Metros ' Clint mathis niyat an MLS rekar by scoring pach goals in a game virdh the Dallas barna .
kuch well-known players that have niya for the team shaml Giovanni savarese , Tim hard , Tony Meola , Tab Ramos , alexi lalas , cllit Mathis , jozy Altidore , Michael Bradley , Claudio Reyna , aidi Pope , Roberto Donadoni , Lothar kaa , aafoe Valencia , youri Djorkaeff , amado ganra , juon Pablo kaa , Thierry hanir , juninho Pernambucano , Jan Gunnar Solli , rafal maase , and Tim Cahill .
The team has also had well-known coaches , including Carlos Queiroz , Carlos Alberto parreira , Bora kaa , bob Bradley , Mo johnston , Bruce arana and Hans backe .
Confucianism , Taoism , aor buddhism are one , a painting in the litang style portraying tinn meen laughing by a river stream , 12th sadi , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world , or in many countries , is difficult due to definitional mudde as well as practical problems of enumeration .
to begin saah , the religious beliefs , practices , aor pahan of East ashiya ( jau comprise the majority of the world 's badho by any measure ) praha blend buddhism with other traditions including Confucianism , the Chinese folk dharm , daoism , Shinto , and korri shamanism .
Most ankura of Buddhism do nahi belong to curnint congregations , or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as taking Refuge , making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
an additional challenge is the hostility of anek nasal sarke ( often Communist ones such as China or North korri ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government netoon in yaa deso may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence , resulting in official totals that may drastically underestimate the number of dharm practitioners in these countries .
anman of the wipsy Buddhist population range from 350 million to over eke billion , but cluster nearer to the pahlo figure .
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 million .
By major branches , the numbers are as follows:
( 1 ) mahan Buddhism , sahit East Asian Buddhism , with no kaam than 185 lakho adherents , and possibly several tamis that anek ( again , depending on definitional mudde ) .
This is the predominant roop of Buddhism practiced in China , South korri , Japan , taava , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) thrvad Buddhism , with no fewer than 125 million adherents .
This is the predominant roop of Buddhism practiced in Cambodia , Thailand , Laos , Sri Lanka , and barma .
( 3 ) Vajrayana buddhism , with approximately 20 million adherents .
This roop predominates in the vrh Tibetan and magllone regions , as well as in the Himalayas .
besides the independent countries of Mongolia aor Bhutan , and vinnin territories within kaya is now western China , jarva is pragat to nisht regions of roos ( e.g . Kalmykia , burti ) , India ( e.g . ladkh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , bhii known as Tibetan buddhism , is often conflated saah tantink Buddhism , but this is imprecise , as shingon and other form of East asyy Buddhism bhii practice tantra .
at least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka , thaldh , Cambodia , Laos , Burma , Bhutan , and magol ) have unambiguous baddh majorities .
depending on how one calculates chaizin aor other istt asyy adherents , this figure might vistar to include anek more countries .
In addition , buddhism is the raay religion of Cambodia and Bhutan , and receives prominent zikr in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
In northern India and Nepal , the land where buddhism thay born , the religion severely declined during the first milaum .
Whether this decline thay due to the Islamic conquest of northern indiaa , or to other factors , remains visad .
See the article Decline of Buddhism in indiya .
James Butler Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 kaa agst 2 , 1876 ) , behtar gyat as Wild Bill hickok , was a folk hero of the American budha West .
uske koshl as a gunfighter aor scout , along saahh his reputation as a lawman , provided the basis for his fame , although some of his reported karna are fictionalized .
Born aor utha on a farm in rural ilonicos , hickok gari west at aoo 18 as a bhode from justice , first working as a stagecoach driver , pahlo he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
He lada for the Union Army during the amri sewal War , and gained publicity after the hudd as a scout , marksman , actor , and professional gambler .
Between uske law-enforcement duties and gambling , which easily overlapped , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
he thay shat and maare while playing poker in the Nuttal & Mann 's Saloon in Deadwood , kata Territory ( now South kata ) .
Artist 's conception of the jigsa rover vaporizing chatnn on magal .
The rover landed on magal in August 2012 .
A magal rover is an automated motor gadi which propels itself across the surface of the planet Mars after lending .
roves have several advantages over stationary landers : vey jache more territory , they can be directed to dilap features , they can plale themselves in suni sthai to masam winter mahino and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very rimat robotic gadi control .
There have been four successful robotically sanhls Mars roves .
the jeete Propulsion Laboratory managed the mangl pathfinder mishan and isko now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages the Mars Exploration Rover mishan 's cresyol Opportunity rover and inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A vitti audit , or adhek accurately , an audit of financial statements , is the verification of the financial kathan of a legal antii , with a drasi to express an aedit raai .
The audit raai is intended to provide reasonable assurance , laciin nahi absolute assurance , that the financial statements hain prust fairly , in all material respects , and/or give a true and fair drasy in accordance with the financial roptonin framework .
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective swatt praksa of the financial statements , which increases the value and credibility of the financial statements idpit by management , thus badan user confidence in the vittiy bayan , reduce investor risk and natane reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing accountants jau are visha in vittiy roptoting .
The financial audit is one of many assurance functions provided by hisab firms .
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors , jau do not attest to financial reports but focus mainly on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors may choone to place limited rilans on the work of internal auditors .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures bana by an organization , therefore would likely to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
internationally , the anthriy manko on Auditing ( isa ) issued by the International Auditing aor Assurance Standards Board ( iaasb ) is considered as the benchmark liya audit prakm .
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or a local vinta of the ISA .
Dollar sikke have marhu minted in the United States in sunhar , silver , and base matl versions .
The term silver doller is often used for khoi large white metal sikka gari by the United raay with a face value of one dollar , although purists insist that a dollar is not silver unless it contains some of kiya matll .
Silver dollars , the first dollar sikka issue , were minted beginning in 1794 .
Gold dollars and gold-colored dollars have also marum produced by the United States .
The Sacagawea and Presidential dollars are often referred to as `` golden doller '' .
In modern times , dollar coins have not marhu very popular in the United States .
despite efforts by the sarki to promote unko use , most Americans currently use the one dollar dheek rather than doller coins .
In straight and sthrr flight lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ) .
In a banked farre of kaa , lifti equals double the wazan ( L=2W ) .
the pilot anoov 2g and a doubled weight .
The steeper the bank , the greater the g-forces .
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate from zero to in 0.86 senda .
This is a horizontal twarn of 5.3 g. sont with the vertical g-force in the stationary mamla the Pythagorean theorem yields a g fors of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gurakh ) is a term for accelerations felt as weight aor measurable by accelerometers .
it is not a force , per se , but a force per unit mass .
Since such a force is perceived as a weight , any g-force can be described as a `` wazan per unit draman '' ( see the synonym specific weight ) .
the g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for pratke unit of an object 's mass , and ( shej for certain electromagnetic fors influences ) is the karnne of an aakt 's twan in relation to free-fall .
inse acceleration experienced by an object is due to the vector yug of non-gravitational shatiyo ectitting on an object free to mowa .
The accelerations that hain not produced by gravity are termed proper accelerations , and it is tabhi these that are measured in g-force ikii .
They cause tanoo and strains on objects .
Because of these strains , visal g-forces may be destructive .
Gravitation acting alone karta nahi produce a g-force , even halic g-forces are expressed in multiples of the twan of a standard gravity .
Thus , the maank gurakh twarn at the Earth 's satah produces g-force only indirectly , as a result of resistance to it by mechanical shatiyan .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's satah is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward direction by the maidan , keeping the object isse going into free-fall .
The upward fors isse the ground ensures that an object at rest on the darti 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition , which is the paath that the object would follow jajb falling freely toward the Earth 's center .
Objects antum to free-fall in an inertial trajectory antra the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
inse is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' sharte ander a freely girna elevator falling toward the Earth 's bech ( in vacuum ) , or ( to shoh approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in darti orbit .
These are examples of coordinate acceleration ( a change in velocity ) without a sunne of weight .
the experience of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is produced , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the absence of gravitational fillad , or in dishan at right angles to unhe , proper aor coordinate accelerations hain the same , aor any coordinate acceleration jarur be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
an udarn here is a rocket in jhri space , in jisse saral changes in velocity are idtit by the engines , aor produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur holding a lituus , the curved wand often prutt as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur thay a priest aor official in the sastir world , vishar ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main bumk thay to interpret the will of the devat by studying the udan of birds : whether vey hain udte in groups or alone , kaya noises vey meke as vey makhi , direction of udan and what kind of pashyon vey are .
This was gyat as `` taking the auspices . ''
The rasm aor function of the augur was central to any prmuk undertaking in Roman kaa or kaa matters of war , comsar , and religion .
The roman itaara livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who does not know that this city was sapit tabhi bada taking the auspices , that everything in war aor in salam , at gher and abroad , was kiya only after lene the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent jatio in southeastern mixangn .
It is the second largest city in Oakland County in the u.S. state of mixhing .
Its population thay 79,740 at the 2010 yankise .
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of mahag Detroit and is also northeast of downtown Ann arbor .
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as eke of the safest cities in the United States , as khoo as in the raay of Michigan .
In 2010 , the chartela ranked as the 30th safest nuagar in America .
halic the two sharm have separate services aor pata , Farmington and Farmington Hills are often vichar of as the vahi community .
Features of the community include a recently renovated downtown , boutiques , a vintage seema , numerous rastro , exotic car dealerships , art galleries , and public parks including Heritage Park .
There are several ataic sites including the longacre House aor the Governor Warner Mansion .
Both cities are served by Farmington Public Schools .
Farmington Hills serves as a major business center liya the greater Detroit chartel .
Present-day impression of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town seal ( matrix ) of kaa from 1570
a seal is a antar for making an impression in wax , mitti , paper , or some other medium , sahit an embossment on paper , and is bhii the chhap thus made .
the original purpose was to authenticate a document , a wrapper for one such as a modern lifa , or the cover of a saaaak or package pakaar valuables or anya objects .
the sealing prakm is essentially that of a mould , with the final image represented on the device liya making the impression by a mirror-image design , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
the seal-making device is bhii referred to as the seal mearicees or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or , adhek rarely , the sealing ) .
If the impression is made purely as a rahta resulting from the vrh pressure on the paper where the high bhag of the mentric tach , the muhrr is known as a dry seal ; in all anya cases a drav or liquified medium ( such as ink or mamo ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
For legal udshy , the definition of a seal may be extended to shaml barr stamps , or likne nirt words ( `` seal '' or `` l.s . `` ) .
In the United States , the word `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ) , which may be used in a variety of contexts including architectural jamte , on dwar , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for example , the gree muhr of the sont raay , among anya uses , appears on the rivarc of the one-dollar dheeek ; and anek of the seals of the U.S. states appear on unko respective raay flags .
In uoripy , halki coats of bahi aor heraldic beej may well visha in aisa contexts as khoo as on seals , the seal design in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
the study of seals is gyat as sigillography or sphragistics .
Groundhog dena ( penalaiaa German : Grundsaudaag , Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges isse its burrow on inse day , then spring will come early ; if it is sunny , the groundhog hoga supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into isko burrow , and the winter weather hoga continue for six more weeks .
Modern customs of the aaak involve jasna where early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog emerging from its burrow .
in southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog Lodges ( grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the aaak with fersommlinge , social karm in which food is served , speeches are bana , aor one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) hain performed for entertainment .
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language spoken at the event , and those who speak angrij ada a penalty , usually in the form of a nickel , dime , or cwar per word spoken , with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table .
The largest groundhog Day jasna is held in Punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized aor popular paraa , prapt widespread dhaan as a result of the 1993 film Groundhog Day , jisse thay niyat in Punxsutawney , PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney phila .
High resolution hitrr of Tampa Bay region
The Tampa Bay chartel raai a ardr subtropical climate ( Koppen cfa ) , with garma and humid summers saah frequent thunderstorms and drier sardiyan saah freezing temperatures occurring every kaa years .
The area experiences a significant garman wet ritu , as nearly two-thirds of the salan varhh falls in the months of June through September .
The chartel is listed by the United raay Department of Agriculture ( usdi ) as being in hardiness zone 10 , which is prachy the northern limit of jaha narrila haliian aor royal palms can be grown .
Highs usually range between 65 aor 95 kaa ( 18 and 35 kaa ) saal round .
Though known liya hot summers , Tampa 's official high has never phonch 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
St. Petersburg 's all-time rekar high is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
Pinellas County suth on a prawi between tampa Bay and the galf of Mexico , and much of the nuagar of Tampa lies on a smaller prawi jutting out into Tampa khadi .
This nikta to visal laase of water dano moderates temperatures and introduces large amounts of ardaa into the atmosphere .
In general , the laol communities farthest isse the coast have larger tapan ranges , both during a single day aor throughout the seean of the year .
A arekh of the electromagnetic spectrum , prish various properties across the range of barbant aor wavelengths
the electromagnetic spectrum is the daura of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The `` electromagnetic nark '' of an object has a different arth , aor is bajay the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic vikrinn emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The elarctitinn nark extends from below the low barbant used for modern radio communication to gama radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from hazaro of kilometers bas to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the akar of the brand itself , while it is thought that the choti wavelength seema is in the vicinity of the Planck length , although in principle the spectrum is anat and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and anya probing interactions , as ways to study aor characterize matter .
In addition , radiation isse various parts of the spectrum raai found many other uses for communications and nirman ( dekhi electromagnetic radiation for adhek arpon ) .
Legend
frichin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; janri 30 , 1882 kaa April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his initials , FDR , thay the 32nd addhs of the United raay ( kaa ) and a central pigar in sanaar events during the mid-20th century , agri the United raay dauran a time of worldwide economic vasad aor total war .
A prabpll nata of the Democratic Party and the only American addhs elected to more than two terms , he built a New sade Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932 , as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle tisra of the 20th sadi .
With the bouncy lercoria song `` prann Days hain Here again `` as his aiaan theme , FDR defeated lalima rapblonn harbat Hoover in nambar 1932 , at the depth of the gree vasad .
Energized by his neeji victory over poloy , FDR 's unfailing optimism and sacrtaro contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with angove prahan Minister vintan Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies virdh Germany aor Japan in World War ii , and restoring prosperity to the swesh 's economy .
in his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt patraaan prmuk legislation and gari a profusion of executive orders that instituted the nayi Deal kaa variety of programs designed to upaj relief ( government karya for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic vikas ) , aor reform ( through regulation of waale goli , banks and transportation ) .
The arvasha improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , lackin then relapsed into a deep mandi .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the rahta karm when unemployment diminished during sanaar War II .
sabse of the regulations on business yhoo ended prachy kaa , except for the vinnim of Wall Street by the proti aor ecchsng aag , which still exists .
Along saah several smaller karm , major surviving programs include the sanhiyn Deposit Insurance Corporation , which was created in 1933 , and sohll Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As sanaar War ii loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of China aor the aggression of naji Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic aor vittiy support to China and Great bretten , while remaining officially nturl .
uske goal was to make amrraa the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` jisse would salai munitions to the allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional swieti , provided Lend-Lease shata to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
saah bhoot strong national support , he made war on Japan aor Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7 , 1941 , colling it a `` date which will seav in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war pratan .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall hudd strategy on dho fronts that ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bambar .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American naroim .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended , and the addoii arvasha grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new karya in hudd centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 malaon were drafted or volunteered for military sewa .
Roosevelt chrv the amri political scene not tabhi dauran the barah years of uske prissi , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of voters kiya created the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions , big nuagar mashene , swath ethnics , African amrie and gramin swath Southerners .
he bhii influenced the later creation of the United Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently reated by vedo as eke of the top tinn u.S. Presidents , saah with Abraham Lincoln aor George vashitnn .
A liberal dokret , Roosevelt parah his cwarcia stith as `` a little left of center . ''
a sont Committee is a pada in politics kiya is prutt to refer to a kamit made up of members of both chambers of a bicameral legislature .
in anya contexts , it refers to a committee with saxy from more than eke santhan .
The regulation of prostitution in the United raay is not among the enumerated shatiyon of the federal government ; antra the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is isli exclusively the domain of the raay to permit , prohibit , or varna regulate wyniik sex , except insofar as corgens may regulate it as bhag of interstate commerce with laws jaise the Mann adhinn .
in most raay , prostitution is maano a misdemeanor in the category of public order crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a community .
it thay at eke samay considered to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only raay to allow brothel prostitution , the terms of which hain stipulated in the nafa Revised Statutes .
Only 8 counties currently contain active brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las kaa mahag area ) , Washoe County ( jisse contains Reno ) , Carson City , Douglas County , and Lincoln County .
The other counties theoretically allow brothel vastiv , laciin some of these counties currently have no active brothels .
goli prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living bandh of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under nafa law , as elsewhere in the desh .
as with other countries , prostitution in the United States can be divided into tinn broad categories : goli prostitution , brothel prostitution , aor escort prostitution .
the national dwar of the sont raay of America , praha baae referred to as the amri flag , consists of tarh equal horizontal stripes of redd ( shers and bottom ) alternating saah swath , with a blue aatar in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of chaa stars ( top and bottom ) alternating saah rows of pach stars .
The 50 sitaoo on the flag represent the 50 states of the sonte States of America and the 13 dharni represent the thirteen British colonies that hogti swatta from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the samnh .
Nicknames liya the dwa include the `` Stars and Stripes '' , `` Old Glory `` , and `` The Star-Spangled dwar . ''
indiya is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight states and seven union territories .
The raay and territories are further subdivided into giele and so on .
congressional districts for the 113th United raay corgens
2010 yankiti change:
