a partly submerged himne gufa on perito moroo himne .
the barf mukhar is lagch 60 m unche
barf formations in the titlis himne gufa
a himne gufa is a gufa formed bhitr the barf of a himne .
himne guffan hain praha pukra barf guffan , laciin inse pada is properly prutt to describe bedrock guffan kiya contain year-round barf .
in bhoti , golar gati is a gati of an aakt saah the prrhida of a vrat or rotaon saahh a galar paath .
it can be vaddi , saah nirtar koni rayte of roteon ( aor nirtar gati ) , or non-uniform saah a badnla rayte of rotaon .
the rotaon around a ficd ash of a three-dimensional deh involves galar gati of isko bhag .
the equations of gati describe the gati of the bech of draman of a deh .
udarnn of galar gati shaml : an crutrim ugrah orbiting the darti at nirtar unchi , a stoon jisse is tied to a rassi aor is hona swung in vrat , a car turning through a wakr in a rees track , an ilariten chalti labtv to a vaddi chumbe fillu , aor a gier turning ander a yatrin .
chunki the aakt 's gati vaktor is constantly badnaa disha , the chalti aakte is undergoing twarn by a abhirri fors in the disha of the bech of rotaon .
bagar inse twarn , the aakt hota mowa in a sidha lakir , according to nutan 's kanun of gati .
aplo panth is a fictional ashrr isse the raki films , initially portrayed as the undisputed hevit chainn of the sanaar .
he thay niya by karle weathers .
panth thaa anek nicknames , sahit the nupun of viptt , the kinning of stiin , the nacha vinsak , the prins of panch , the eke aor tabhi aor the ginti of mote fisto .
shari lende raay kiya apolo panth 's naam is a wordplay on the rulo ' panth , a bayan of visaa prutt in isai charh .
seb of aplo 's chapis jadhe you annunn liya the 15 galar ulaa .
chapis jhade kiya nahi badle isse 15 rounds to 12 rounds aabak 1987 .
raki balwa is praha wrongly credited saah popularizing the redd , swath , aor blon trunks ; panth thay the pahla man to pahne unhe ( latterly worn by raki balwa in the 3rd aor 4th kistoo aor hakar by tamm `` the antar '' gunn ( tamm morsio ) in the 5th kist ) halki samnth he pahna redd aor swath , as dekhi in raki ii .
balwa 's hastar rango yaud blaec aor kaa he prutt in the navata film .
in the sonk raay , the sherak of sanhhy ndeshy praha arth a ndeshy niak by the addhs of the sont raay aor pushi by the sont raay sinte pursuant to the nitki clause in aleh ii of the sont raay swanhann .
in jod to the pram adalt of the sunt raay , jinke astivat aor kuch faluo of jinke chastar hain purar the swankh sakti of corgens to alter , adhiomon of corgens have sthpt 13 nyloy of appeals ( bhii pukra `` sakit nyloy '' ) saah appellate chastar over alag regions of the sont raay , aor 94 sont raay jila nyloy .
pratok ndeshy niak to aisa a adalt may be categorized as a sanhhy ndeshi ; aisa sthai shaml the mukhy ins aor sandh justices of the pram adalt , sakit dhythoii of the nyloy of appeals , aor jila dhythoin of the sont raay jila nyloyan .
seb of yaa dhythoii varn yaun dhur hain referred to sometimes as `` aleh iii dhythoin '' cumi vey kasta the nyak sakti vested in the nyak shokh of the sanhiyn sarki by aleh iii of the u.S. swanhann .
in jod , dhythoii of the adalt of anthriy wapar kasta nyak sakti pursuant to aleh iii .
anya dhythoin seat in the sanhiyn nyloy , sahit jaxitertt dhythoin aor dipana dhythoin , hain bhii sometimes referred to as `` sanhhy dhythoin '' ; however , vey hain neither niak by the addhs nor pushi by the sinte , aor unko sakti garbhi isse aleh i bajay .
dekhi aleh i aor aleh iii adrion .
the beretta 21a babket is a choti pocket-sized semi-automatic pistl designed by beretta in itli .
utpann began in latt 1984 , solely in the beretta u.s.A. swida in accokeek , mariland .
it is a further vikas of the beretta maal 20 , jinke utpann ended in 1985 .
parvitinn sarvik jivan bima ( praha shortened to vul ) is a parkar of jivan bima kiya builds a naddi maana .
in a vul , the nadi maana can be invested in a chaude kismo of prath khate , saaman to prspar nidhe , aor the chana of jisse of the apaalan prath khate to uppg is entirely up to the andhun malic .
the 'variable ' ghatak in the naam refers to inse khshta to invest in prath khate jinke maana kaa vary cuyi vey hain invested in nhadar and/or bandh bajar .
the 'universal ' ghatak in the naam refers to the chlpaan the malic raai in banana priemium bhugat .
the priemium can vary isse nothing in a diye maah up to maximums parah by the atric aaya kood liya jivan bima .
inse chlpian is in canto to purre jivan bima kiya raai fikd priemium bhugat kiya typically can nahi be chooi bagar lapsing the niti ( halic eke may kasta an swalth priemium rinn visha , or atpan dividends to ada a purre jivan priemium ) .
paritive sarvik jivan is a parkar of sthai jivan bima , cku the moua labh hoga be shusl if the insured marta khoi samay as long as vahi is sufficient nadi maana to ada the lagat of bima in the niti .
saahh sabse if nahi seb vuls , napans purre jivan , vahi is no endowment aoo ( the aoo at jisse the nadii maana barai the mota labh rashi , jisse liya purre jivan is typically 100 ) .
inse is yet another kunje labh of vul over purre jivan .
saah a ther purre jivan niti , the mota labh is simit to the phans rashi nirt in the niti , aor at endowment aoo , the phans rashi is seb kiya is shusl aut .
yaun saah either mota or endowment , the bima compnni keeps khoi nadi maana nirm up over the xalo .
however , kuch participating purre jivan netyo prasav raisirs jisse batan kiya khoi dividends shusl on the niti be prutt to kharde `` shusl up prarwaran '' to the niti jisse badan dano the nadi maana aor the mota labh over samay .
if nivesh bana in the prath khate out-perform the samay khata of the bima compnni , a uchar rate-of-return can occur than the ficd rates-of-return ther liya purre jivan .
the samon over the xalo of no endowment aoo , continually increasing mota labh , aor if a unchi rate-of-return is arj in the prath khate of a vul niti , inse could pranamn in uchar maana to the malic or lathare than kiya of a purre jivan niti saah the vahi amounts of dhan shusl in as priemium .
the bahari lacdi baller is a tupaar of the clasic lacdi stov adapted liya set-up bahari abki sthil transferring the umsho to atricim imarte .
a mound of ladki skat kouk .
inse mound contains 74 baax of kouke
ladke skat kouke hain kouk bechi by ladke skat of the yusi ( gsusa ) as eke of isko prmuk fundraisers liya laol skat ikii .
saany of the gsusa have marhu selling kouk chunki 1917 to hathe nidhe .
ladkoyan jau participate can earn pukar liya unko pratan .
vahi hain bhii kayi patanot if the kayi as a purre kurta khoo .
as of 2007 , bakri you anaut at prrchy 200 lakho baax prti saal .
vilhoov ghol
purdue vilhoov , stith in vaste lafayette , indian , is the lephs vishoon of the six-campus purdue vishoon praliy .
purdue thay sapit on may 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant vilhoove jajb the indian samay subha , lene labh of the morrill adhinn , swaqk a daane of jamin aor dhan isse lafayette bijann jaan purdue to sthpt a kalag of vigaan , prikii , aor krshi in uske naam .
the pahlo varg yhoo aagt on sitabar 16 , 1874 , saah chaa instructors aor 39 vidhhi .
aage , purdue is a sasy of the biga teen smalne , aor is a khoo gyat world-class shadh santha .
purdue enrolls the duori largest chaar deh of khoi vilhove in indian as khoo as the choth largest anthriy chaar yankit of khoi vilhoov in the sont raay .
purdue offers dano undergraduate aor greet karm in over 211 prmuk chatti of padha , aor is khoo gyat liya isko prashi aariiii curricula .
the vilhoov raai bhii marhu atdich influential in amrraa 's ithes of vimanin , having sthpt the pahlo kalag cretita offered in udan prashan , the pahlo four-year stank 's upadi in vimanin , aor the pahlo vilhoov visanter ( purdue vishoo visanter ) .
purdue 's vimanin prikii karm remains eke of the sabse prashi aviation-specific karm in the sanaar .
in the mid-20th sadi , purdue 's vimanin karm vistar to encompass unta spaceflight prikdi giving vrdhi to purdue 's upna , palna of astronauts .
twenty-three purdue graduates have gayi on to become astronauts , sahit ghg grissom ( eke of the asli para saath astronauts ) , neil araat ( the pahlo witt to tulna on the chandrma ) , aor yujin cernan ( the sabse haal witt to tulna on the chandrma ) .
a vasay gaath ( ) is a pada kiya loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( bhii gyat as epidermal cysts ; l72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( bhii gyat as trichilemmal cysts ; l72.1 ) .
cuyi an epidermoid gaath originates in the epidermis aor a piller gaath originates isse iball follicles , by paraha , neither parkar of gaath is sakti a vasay gaath .
the naam is regarded as a misnomer as the vasiy , swath , semi-solid samri in dano of yaa gaath entities is nahi sebum , laciin keratin .
furthermore , antra the sudsiri neither antii contains vasay grehthon .
in abaas , however , the sharte hain praha prutt interchangeably .
`` sacha '' vasay cysts hain acrat wirle aor hain gyat as steatocystomas or , if anek , as steatocystoma malticees .
adhun pointe jute .
the kinare of the touo pad , jisse is inserted between the paar aor touo baas liya cushioning , can be dekhi on the sahi paar .
a pointe juto is a parkar of juto worn by bele nartak jajb performing pointe karya .
pointe jute viksit isse the khash liya nartak to appear weightless aor sylph -like aor have viksit to enable nartak to nrt en pointe ( on the nuske of unko toes ) liya vistar avhdi of samay .
vey hain samnth worn by mada nartak , halic pursh nartak may pahne unhe liya arapan bioan aisa as the bhada stepsisters in sindr , niche in a midsummer ratri 's sapna , or meen performing as malaon in nrt compannon aisa as lesa natkom trockadero aor grandiva .
vey hain manufactured in a kismo of rango , sabse commonly in sheds of layit lulai .
inse tablespoon raai a khshta of prrchy 15 ml .
measuring spoons
in the us aor bhag of kanda , a tablespoon is the largest parkar of macha prutt liya khane isse a catro .
in the uk , uoripy aor sabse dhartal deso , a tablespoon is a parkar of visal macha praha prutt liya seat .
in deso jaha a tablespoon is a seat macha , the nitaom smatll to the us tablespoon is either the mitha macha or the seap macha .
a tablespoonful , nominally the khsta of eke tablespoon , is commonly prutt as a maa of aage in cuking .
it is abbreviated as t , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
the khsta of ordinary tablespoons is nahi regulated by vidhi aor is vishy to considerable vinna .
in the yusy eke tablespoon ( mapan kayi ) is lagch 15 ml ; the khshta of an tastic tablespoon ( daiing utensil ) siemon isse 7 ml to 14 ml .
in altriara eke tablespoon ( mapan kayi ) is 20 ml .
hairi kumar is a shari of saath calpick novels lika by the angoj lakkk J. K. roling .
the kitab vrat the adventures of a judar , hairi kumar , aor uske mitro rold vigle aor harmini grenjer , seb of zisko hain vidhhi at gorvart sula of chooll aor wizardry .
the prmuk stori chhap chiyten hairi 's cwoste to overcome the adhera judar rab voldemort , jinke aims hain to become amar , jite the wizarding sanaar , subjugate non-magical logo , aor nasht seb those jau stand in uske rasta , vishar hairi kumar .
chunki the reezl of the pahlo ankh hairi kumhr aor the paros 's stoon on 30 juon 1997 , the kitab have gained immense laccaria , nauj acclaim aor wyniik kama wisy .
the shari raai bhii thaa kuch share of alcha , sahit chinta liya the increasingly adherr tono .
, the kitab shari raai bechi prachy 450 lakho naal , banana it the best-selling kitab shari in ithes , aor raai marhu andut into 67 bhaan .
the pichla haarr kitab consecutively niyat rikar as the fastest-selling kitab in ithes .
a shari of anek jata , sahit calpick aor coming of aoo ( saah tatv of rahs , thirl , adherer , aor romans ) , it raai anek santric meanings aor sandhr .
according to roling , the prmuk thema is mota .
vahi hain bhii anek anya vist in the shari , aisa as purva aor bhathar .
the araic prmuk prakk of the kitab yhoo bloomsbury in the sont kidam aor scholastic dabae in the sunk raay .
the kitab have chunki marhu prik by anek prakk wipsy .
the kitab , saah the satva kitab viat into dho bhag , have marum bana into an eight-part filli shari by warner bhai satve , the highest-grossing film shari of seb samay .
the shari bhii originated much tie-in merchandise , banana the hairi kumar brand layak in excess of $ 15 arab .
bhii due to the kama of the kitab aor films , hairi kumhr raai marhu prutt liya a thema paak , the wizarding sanaar of hairi kumar in sarvik paak & ristar 's ailedids of adherer .
rs-68 hona tested at naso 's stennis sgec bech .
the nearly parse exhaust is due to inse injan 's exhaust hona jyaaar attp hhap ( jala waah isse isko propellants , hardanin aor oxipinn )
viking 5c prastr injan
a prasta injan , or baae `` prasta '' , is a jeete injan kiya uppg tabhi nandrrt propellant draman liya forming isko unchi gati propulsive jeete .
prastr injan hain pratio injan aor obtain thrust in accordance saahh nutan 's tisra vidhi .
chunki vey need no baha samri to roop unko jeete , prasta injan can be prutt liya spacecraft nodn as khoo as sthali uppg , aisa as mixalen .
sabse prasta injan hain atric dhan injan , halki non-combusting form bhii mood .
prasta injan as a smoh have the utcham exhaust gatio , hain by dhur the lightest , laciin hain the tanik propellant koshal of seb parkar of jeet injan .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' is a sogn by amri reacornin clakar britney sgirs .
it parosa as sgyps 's debu singl aor sherak track isse uske debu stiyo ellam , ... baby eke adhek samay ( 1999 ) .
lika by adacht martin aor utpid by martin aor rami , `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' thay released on sitabar 30 , 1998 , by jive raad .
bada reacoidin aor sending a demoo tep saah an aurt sog isse toni braxton , sgaps hastrc a multi-album sade saah jive .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' is a tinn paap aor dance-pop sogn kiya refers to a ladki jau sentph tokar up saah uske borronder .
the sog prapt generally anku saanian isse achoo , jau praised isko samon .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' attained wasik kama , reaching cramak eke in pratke desh it charted .
it bhii prapt numerous certifications around the sanaar , aor is eke of the best-selling singles of seb samay , saahh over 10 lakho naal bechi .
an accompanying muc veeo , nishan by nigal land , portrays sgars as a chaar isse a chalic unche sula , jau starts to daydream kiya dho is gaaon aor nacha around the sula , abki watching uske priemium beaj isse afar .
the muck veeo thay bada sandhti in the muck veeo of `` if u talas ami `` ( 2008 ) , jaha sgars 's fictional bete is vash saah a saaman schoolgirl phana abki wearing lulai ribbons in uske iball .
in 2010 , the moc veeo liya `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' thay voted the tisra sabse influential veeo in the ithes of paap moc , in a paal aagt by jam ! .
sgars raai performed `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' in a cramak of seav diwaae aor in seb of uske kanter toor .
it thay the encore of the ... baby eke adhek samay daura ( 1999 ) aor sapna bhitr a sapna daura ( 2001 ) ; sgars bhii performed remixed sankan of the sogn dauran the uuff ! ...
i kiya it again sanaar daura ( 2000 ) , the gomed ghol daura ( 2004 ) , the m+m 's daura ( 2007 ) , the cars aubhin britney sgirs ( 2009 ) , aor the femme fatale daura ( 2011 ) .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' thay manti liya a grami pukrar liya behatin maada paap gaaon prashan , aor raai marhu shaml in suhhin by blender , roling stoon aor vh1 .
it raai marhu vika liya redefining the dhani of latt 1990s muck .
sgaps raai namit `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' as eke of uske panda gito isse uske karir .
it thay bhii the philal sog to be niya on the bisi 's muc karm shers of the baute .
haja is an sankan in the choti aant caused by the bacterium vibrio cholerae .
the prmukh lashan hain watery ataira aor ulti .
hatran occurs primarily by pina jala or khane khana kiya raai marhu contaminated by the maal ( barbad utp ) of an sankit witt , sahit eke saahh no apparent lashan .
the garrtt of the atarar aor ulti can seese to repid nirzen aor electrolyte astuln , aor mota in kuch mamle .
the prathak upaar is mauk pulkir chikta , typically saahh mauk pulkarn saaaan , to badle jala aor ilaricteot .
if inse is nahi tolerated or kurta nahi provide sudhar teaj prapt , intravenous fluids can bhii be prutt .
jivnde dawaon hain faade in those saah kathor bimar to shorten isko avhdi aor garrtt .
wipsy , it affects kaa lakho logo aor kanari kaa mauto a saal .
haja thay eke of the earliest infections to be padha by epidemiological vidhi .
the hitrr of doriin dhuser is the tabhi prik anko by askar wall , appearing as the seese stori in lippincott 's masik patricoa on 20 juon 1890 , mudri as the julaya 1890 samm of inse patricoa .
the patricoa 's smapar feared the stori thay abrr as suppad , so vey censored roughly 500 sabd , bagar walld 's gyann , pahlo prashan .
laciin bhii saahh kiya , the stori thay sthil greeted saah arrosh by angoe reviewers , kuch of zisko sujay kiya wall chahi be prosecuted on moral grounds , agri walld to caaav the ankh aggressively in ashrr to the angoe dabae .
wall bada sandh the stori liya kitab prasaon , banana substantial alterations , hatna visad passages , adding nayi adhya aor sahit an aphoristic preface jisse raai chunki become prishad in isko apna sahi .
the amended sankan thay prik by vard , tala aor compnni in apryl 1891 .
kuch vidon manana kiya wall hota aage have chahi us to pada the sankan he originally supad to lippincott 's .
the ankh tells of a aag man namit dorrin dhuser , the vishy of a penting by clakar besll hallward .
besl is pravit by dorrin 's sandar aor becomes infatuated saah ussy , believing uske sandra is jimer liya a nayi vidhi in uske wart .
dorrin meets rab hanir wotton , a dost of besll 's , aor becomes enthralled by rab hanir 's sanaar drasy .
espousing a nayi hedonism , rab hanir suggests the tabhi baate layak pursuing in jivan hain sandar aor fulfilment of the hosh .
realizing kiya eke dena uske sandar hoga fica , dorrin ( whimsically ) expresses a khish to bech uske attm to ensure the porte besil raai chitr hota aoo blki than he .
dorrin 's kosh is fulfilled , aor jajb he subsequently pursues a jivan of vilat , the porte serves as a smarn of the praaav pratke adhinn raai upon uske attm , saahh pratk seene prishit as a disfigurement of uske roop , or through a chhan of vadaa .
the hitrr of dorrin dhuser is maano a karya of clask ghtick fiction saahh a madar faustian theme .
kaa kaa ( born 6 farr 1917 ) , gyat as zor zor gabbar ( ) , is a hangrri -born amri aahiti jau acted in supporting bioan in fillo , on brawade , aor occasionally on talvin .
gabbar thay bhii a socialite .
dho began uske stet karir in veya at aou 15 , aor thay pahana mixa hangrri in 1936 .
dho emigrated to the sont raay in 1941 aor became a sought-after aahiti saah `` uoripy fluer aor sthali '' , saah a ittc kiya `` exuded arshann aor angh '' .
uske pahla film bumk thay as supporting aahiti in paare to dekh at .
dho bada acted in we 're nahi shadud !
aor niya eke of uske few agri bimien in moulin rooj ( 1952 ) , nisdan by jaan hastan , jau varnn uske as a `` visepinn '' aahiti .
besides uske filli aor talvin diwaae , dho is behtan gyat liya having nano pattoy , sahit ghol marhhari conddr hilat aor karta zarg sendrs .
dho akar stated , `` meen have sada liked me aor i have sada liked meen .
laciin i jaise a mannish man , a man jau knows kasa to vaat to aor davat a stri kaa nahi baae a man saah mashapian . ''
bross liele ( pragat : kaa ; born liele jun-fan ; 27 nambar 1940 kaa 20 julay 1973 ) thay a chaizin amri martial clakar , karta , martial kela prashak , paros , aor filar .
the saapas of jeet kune do , liele thay the bete of cantonese apparo sthr liele hoi-chuen .
he is widely maano by ticrom , achoon , midaa aor anya martial caloom to be eke of the sabse influential martial caloom of seb samay , aor a paap santi pretikh of the 20th sadi .
he is praha credited saahh helping to badle the rasta ashiya yaud prust in amri films .
liele thay born in chaun , sein fanko on 27 nambar 1940 to aarak isse hong kaang aor thay utha in kolon saah uske privar aabak uske latt khshor .
he thay introduced to the filli udgo by uske pita aor appeared in anek films as a challad karta .
liele stirt to the sont raay at the aoo of 18 to prapt uske uchar sisha , aor it thay dauran inse samay kiya he began shikn martial kela .
uske hong kaang aor holid upaj films elevated the pragat hong kaang martial kela filli to a nayi sthrr of laccariat aor acclaim , sparking a surge of beaj in chaizin martial kela in the vastt in the 1970s .
the disha aor tono of uske films badala aor baawa martial kela aor martial kela films in hong kaang aor the baaki of the sanaar .
he is vika liya uske bioan in pach feature-length films : lo vaye 's the biga boss ( 1971 ) aor mutti of foori ( 1972 ) ; rasta of the drann ( 1972 ) , nisdh aor lika by liele ; warner bhoyo ' daale the drann ( 1973 ) aor the khel of mota ( 1978 ) , dano nisdh by rabrt clouse .
liele became an iconic pigar gyat throughout the sanaar , vishar among the chainanj , as he portrayed chainns rashad in uske films .
he initially prish in wing chun , lackin bada astvet well-defined martial wart shalia , favouring bajay the uppg of catcoon isse vinnin srot , in the spiet of uske neeji martial kela dasnrr , jisse he utlle jeet kune do ( the rasta of the intercepting mutti ) .
liele aagt duol nagrat of hong kaang aor the sont raay .
he died in kolon tong on 20 julay 1973 at aoo 32 .
dirlcil obstructive pulmonary bimar ( copd ) , bhii gyat as dirlcil obstructive peeon bimar ( thanda ) , dirlic obstructive airway bimar ( coad ) , dirlico airflow limitation ( calori ) aor dirlcoe obstructive respiratory bimar ( cord ) , is the occurrence of dirlic brentic or emphysema , a jodi of commonly co-existing rogo of the fefede in jisse the aerva simit over samay .
inse hud airflow to aor isse the fefede , causing shortness of saans ( dyspnea ) .
in nadic abaas , copd is parah by isko characteristically kaam airflow on peeone jalne prashan .
in canto to dama , inse limitation is poorly reversible aor praha gets progressively badtar over samay .
copd is caused by noxious ano or gass , sabse commonly isse tamboo dhorpan , jisse triggers an asaan jalne jawab in the peeon .
the nidan of copd requires peeoo jalne prashan .
marhan prabhann ranti hain dhorpan cessation , vaccinations , punars , aor drag chikta ( praha using inhalers ) .
kuch merij go on to aakta long-term oxipinn chixa or peeon pratan .
wipsy , copd crem as the chate agri karnne of mota in 1990 .
it is prast to become the choth agri karna of mota wipyi by 2030 , due to an badan in dhorpan daro aor yankise pravatin in anek deso .
copd is the tisra agri karna of mota in the u.S. , aor the arthec bujh of copd in the u.S. in 2007 thay $ 42.6 arab in swast paava lagat aor khoya utda .
annelies `` aani '' maare fenk ( , ? , ; 12 juon 1929early kuch 1945 ) is eke of the sabse discussed yhode piditoon of the holocaust .
uske dayre raai marhu the adhar liya anek plays aor films .
born in the nuagar of fint am prmuk in viira jarni , dho jiya sabse of uske jivan in or nikat addmast , in the niddlendr .
born a jarni nashl , fenk khoya uske nagrat in 1941 .
dho gained anthriy kitri maran bada uske dayre thay prik .
it dastav uske anoov chapan dauran the jarni occupation of the niddlendr in sanaar hudd ii .
the fenk privar sthrn isse jarni to addmast in 1933 , the saal the nazis gained contol over jarmin .
by the shurt of 1940 , vey yaud funs in addmast by the naji occupation of the nidlandr .
as persecutions of the yhod yankise increased in julaya 1942 , the pravir gari into chapan in the chupa sash of aani 's pita , otto fenk 's , daftr bhann .
bada dho xalo , the smoh thay gadri aor transported to visha seero .
aani fenk aor uske sister , margot , yhoo hakar transferred to the bergen-belsen visha seer , jaha vey died of senah in kuch 1945 .
atto fenk , the tabhi utri of the privar , lauta to addmast bada the hudd to dhonde kiya aani 's dayre thaa marhu saved , aor uske pratan led to isko prashan in 1947 .
it thay andut isse isko asli bach aor pahlo prik in angrij in 1952 as the dayri of a yag ladki .
it raai chunki marhu andut into anek bhaan .
the dayre , jisse thay diye to aani on uske 13th jendamas , crensll uske jivan isse 12 juon 1942 aabak 1 aag 1944 .
karte 's hastar
karte dond kobo ( farr 20 , 1967 kaa apryl 5 , 1994 ) thay an amri santarr aor clakar , behatin gyat as the seese singar , guitarist aor prathak songwriter of the grunge band nirvan .
kobo formed nirvan saah krist novoselic in bardin , vashitnn in 1985 aor sthpt it as bhag of the sital moc saaki , having isko debu ellam bleech released on the swantr rekar leble sub paap in 1989 .
bada hastar saahh prmuk lable dgc raad , the band mila bhann kamay saahh `` khobo jaise tinn spiet `` isse isko duori ellam nevermind ( 1991 ) .
following the kama of nevermind , nirvan thay labeled `` the lephis band '' of pedhe x , aor kobo hailed as `` the parka of a pedhe '' .
kobo , however , thay praha asha aor kunti , believing uske sansee aor kalari dushi to have marhu misinterpreted by the palcic , saah uske neeji mudde praha vishy to midaa dhaan .
he challenged nirvan 's daras saah isko phaila stiyi ellam in utero ( 1993 ) .
dauran the pichla xalo of uske jivan , kobo struggled saah horron wasne , bimar aor vasad .
he bhii thaa parashi coping saahh uske kitri aor placie hitrr , aor the pesher aor lifelong neeji pressures surrounding kood aor uske biwi , santarr kortin priemimm .
on apryl 8 , 1994 , kobo thay mila murde at uske gher in sital , the shakr of kaya thay officially shasi a atth by a self-inflicted shotgun ghav to the sair .
the halto of uske mota at aoo 27 have become a tapic of palcie fascination aor bhaas .
chunki unko debu , nirvan , saahh kobo as a songwriter , raai bechi over 25 lakho allam in the u.S. , aor over 50 lakho wisy .
redilay injan samay aor kamo yantii .
click liya purr reus anmichin .
redily injan of a balpenn
nupun lati ( katra ) , slave aor balances isse a two-row , fourteen-cylinder pratt & white juda barr
the redily injan is a prtaii parkar atric dhan injan vinas in jisse the silender paitin outward isse a contrl crankshaft jaise the tilayi of a whel .
it resembles a stylized sthrr jajb viewed isse the samna , aor is pukra a `` sthr injan '' ( jarni sternmotor ) in kuch bhaan .
the redily vinas thay bhoot commonly prutt in yavan injan pahlo tarbin injan became predominant .
the sunhe ladkoyan is an amri sitcom , nirm by sooan haris , kiya originally aired on ansi isse sitabar 13 , 1985 , to may 9 , 1992 .
abhin bea arthr , betti swath , rue mcclanahan aor estelle getty , the dikha centers on haar purine mahlo sharing a gher in miya , florrrr .
it thay utpid by witt/thomas/harris prandosn , in samnh saah touchstone talvin , aor paal junger witt , toni thamas , aor haris parosa as the asli kariila nirma .
the sunhe ladkoyan prapt naun acclaim throughout sabse of isko chalan aor jeet anek pukrar , sahit the pritim ammi pukar liya bika comide shari twice .
it bhii jeet tinn suhrr gloob pukra liya behtan talvin shari kaa musical or comii .
seb haar sitroo pratok prapt an ami pukra throughout the shari ' chalan aor thaa anek nominations .
the shari bhii crem among the shers teen highest-rated karm liya chaa aut of isko saat seean .
deepwater khudi is the prakm of aala aor gaas khoje aor utpann in ghrrioo of adhek than 500 phit .
by inse prahi , vahi hain lagbh 600 deepwater kuon in the galf of masko .
it raai marhu economically infeasible liya anek xalo , lackin saah utthe aal kimti , adhek compannon hain nivesh in inse chartel .
prmuk compannon working in inse sactor shaml damn offshore , transocean , aor bekar hoos .
vahi hain morp dho kinds of mabul deepwater khudi rigs : semi-submersible khudi rigs aor drillships .
khudi can bhii be performed isse a fixed-position sapnta aisa as a flothng spar ( mach ) or tension-leg mach .
haal udgo vishle raai anaun kiya the kool vey in the wash deepwater aacaran maket hoga phonn $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa seb aal is accessible on jamin or in utle jala .
tuma can dhone kuch aal jama dhann gahne antra the smander kaa ... using sonk upkar , aala compannon determine the khude sait sabse sansit to upaj aal .
tab vey uppg a mabul offshore khude kayi ( modu ) to khudi the araic khoo .
kuch ikii hain privit into utpann rigs , arth vey swach isse khudi liya aal to capturing aal akar it 's mila .
sabse of the samay , the aala compnni hoga badle the modu saah a adhek sthii aala utpann rega to kapar kaa ... the modu 's jaab is to drrli bas into the smander 's manjil to dunne aala jama .
the bhag of the drrli kiya extends niche the deak aor through the jala is pukra the riser .
the riser allows liya khudi fluids to mowa between the manjil aor the rega .
insers nimnar a drrli strining -- a shari of paap designed to drrli bas to the aala jama -- through the kaa
kaa vistar of deepwater khudi is happening despite durton in offshore fillad ... kaa
in 2010 a visal vistt occurred hatya 11 madrur aor spilling lakho of galan of aal into the galf of masko abki a bp aala rega thay khude in gahne waters .
kaa ... despite the risks , the deepwater khude trend is spreading in the bharmeg aor bandh the coast of istt afri bada a string of visal discoveries of pratic kaa
kaa karna liya the resumption of aisa khudi , lisla kah , is continuing unchi maang liya urja kaa
amriaa needs the aal so it is lagbh juri to phans the unchi risks kiya aiye saah deepwater khude in anuom liya amrie to continue to carry on unko raaj jivana .
kaa urja viga recently prast kiya galf aal utpann hota vistar isse isko 2011 sthrr of 1.3 lakho barrels a dena , sthil nearly a cwar of kool rehlul utpann , to 2 lakho barrels a dena by kaa
deepwater khudi affects the paran in dano tanrak aor dhantak trrke .
halik deepwater khudi rarely kanari aala spills it is sthil a hazardous sansit nisha .
aal spills pranamin in aal doob to the niche of the smander smothering santrr jivan leaving machli bagar khana aor ashyr to jivat .
on the anya haath deepwater khudi praaav the parva in a dhantak trrke too .
in samay akar the deepwater aala khoo is nahi in upag anymore padhe hoga grow on aor around the khoo banana a gufa or cavern jaise ashyr adesh liya pesu to thrive in .
deepwater khudi bhii lets us dekhi the ghrrioo of the smander manjil kiya hain hardly kahi dekhi .
kaa on roves at the niche of the kuon rekar tooje aor louo foto of wirle machli kiya hain in vahi pratic vaaas , giving waginic a dekh at pesu vey rarely kaa ( shawan nigm ) . ''
monco samille lewinsky ( born julay 23 , 1973 ) is an amri stri saah zisko sont raay addhs dheek cletin admitted to having thaa an `` improper sandh '' abki dho worked at the swath haas in 1995 aor 1996 .
the affair aor isko parkna ( jisse shaml cletin 's mhoooog ) became gyat as the lewinsky kand .
frasin alar `` fenk '' sinta , , ( dismar 12 , 1915 kaa may 14 , 1998 ) thay an amri singar aor filli karta .
shurt uske musical karir in the sula era saah hairi gems aor tamm dorsey , sinta mila unprecedented kamay as a xolo clakar isse the jaldi to mid-1940s bada hona hastrc to collanba rikar in 1943 .
hona the idll of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released uske pahlo ellam , the aage of fenk sinta in 1946 .
uske pesher karir thaa stalled by the 1950s , laciin it thay punman in 1953 bada he jeet the adami pukra liya behatin supporting karta liya uske prashan in isse yahan to shav .
he hastir saah kapatl rikar in 1953 aor released anek critically lauded ellam ( aisa as in the mut choti ghanto , gito liya swingin ' priemian ! , aiye makhi saah me , tabhi the nirzan aor nice 'n ' asaan ) .
sinta bayn katpll to mila uske apna rakar lebll , reprise raad in 1961 ( dunna kama saah ellam aisa as ring-a-ding-ding ! , sinta at the sands aor frrsins alar sinta & antooia carlos jobim ) , toured internationally , thay a founding sasy of the chooha paak aor fraternized saah hastin aor cutnooi , sahit jaan F. kende .
sinta turned 50 in 1965 , ankit the retrospective sitabar of my xalo , stakhra in the ami -winning talvin khaas fenk sinta : a man aor uske muck , aor scored hitas saah `` ajabi in the ratri `` aor `` my rasta `` .
saah bakri of uske muck dwindling aor bada appearing in anek poorly prapt films , sinta riated liya the pahla samay in 1971 .
dho xalo bada , however , he aaye aat of rintem aor in 1973 ankit anek ellam , soring a shers 40 hit saah `` ( thema isse ) nayi yaak , nayi yaak `` in 1980 .
using uske lalaa vegas shows as a gher adhar , he toured dano bhitr the sont raay aor internationally , aabak a choti samay pahlo uske mota in 1998 .
sinta bhii forged a atdich kamab karir as a filli karta .
bada jitna behatin supporting karta in 1953 , he bhii garnered a naman liya behatin karta liya the man saah the suhrr buja , aor naun acclaim liya uske prashan in the currounn pratiy .
he bhii stakhrr in aisa musicals as unche sama , pal jaya , yaro aor daal aor on the casa .
sinta thay samin at the kende bech honors in 1983 aor thay awarded the addhisya padak of swatta by rold reagan in 1985 aor the congressional sunha padak in 1997 .
he thay the parta of grah grami pukra , sahit the grami trustees pukra , grami lende pukrar aor the grami aavan upari pukkar .
sinta is bhii eke of kaa best-selling caloom of seb samay , having bechi adhek than 150 lakho naal wisy .
ther cornhole falak
cornhole , bhii gyat as seem thala thos , makai thos , baggo or baag , is a laana khel in jisse khili louo turns fonna makai chede baag at a utha mach saahh a chade in the dhur smapt .
a thala in the chade sakor 3 ank , abki eke on the moch sakor 1 paitin .
khel continues aabak a toli or khili phoch the sakor of 21 .
the amri sunha trua is an adhak sunhar bullion sikka of the sonk raay .
prakhat antra the sunha bullion sikka adhinn of 1985 , it thay pahla released by the sont raay minte in 1986 .
bikra yug is a prali of yug kiya bikra choudhury synthesized inse pratan hatha yug catcoon aor popularized shurt in the jaldi 1970s .
seb bikra yug varg chalan liya 90 mintes aor consist of the vahi shari of 26 postures aor 2 swaas exercises .
bikra yug is ideally practiced in a rumm heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) saah a ardta of 40 % , .
crestar maical massey ( born 26 janri 1990 ) is an amri karta , hasi aor rapper behatin gyat liya abhin as maical barret in niclondn talvin shari zoey 101 .
massey raai prapt anek pukra aor naman sahit a yag clakar pukra aor ammi pukra nominations .
he is bhii gyat liya appearing in anek commercials in the jaldi 2000s .
a conventional teaspoon bana of beaag sthyl .
a teaspoon is an mad of cutlery and/or a measuring antar , as khoo as a kayi of mapan of aage in kuch deso aor kastom .
a farnn is khoi eke or adhek of a smoh of prrchyi 12,000 prati of padhe belonging to the vastpit smoh gyat as pteridophyta .
napans mosses , vey have jalim aor flumfi ( banana unhe vascular phode ) .
vey have tana , pette , aor jadey jaise anya vascular phode .
ferns reproduce via beoon aor have neither beej nor pushpi .
by dhur the largest smoh of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , laciin ferns as parah yahan ( bhii pukra monilophytes ) shaml horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , aor ophioglossoid ferns .
the pada pteridophyte bhii refers to ferns aor a few anya bijart vascular padhe ( dekhi narka khand niche ) .
ferns pahlo appear in the chatnn rakar 360 lakho xalo pahlo in the carboniferous laciin anek of the varman paioon aor prati kiya nahi appear aabak roughly 145 lakho xalo pahlo in the jaldi cretaceous ( bada flowering padhe aaye to dominate anek environments ) .
ferns hain nahi of prmuk arthec matth , lackin kuch hain grown or gathered liya khana , as shoaan padhe , liya remediating contaminated soils , aor have marhu the vishy of shadh liya unko khshta to haten kuch rasino pruskuk isse the aeyr .
kuch hain significant weeds .
vey bhii khel a bumk in mythology , arranin , aor wart .
chata roofs in isrill
chapat chaat in lalsa enjicls
a chata chaat is a parkar of covering liya a bhann .
in canto to the adhek sloped roop of chaat , a chapta chaat is aada or nearly aada .
the dhalan of a chaat is properly gyat as isko pich : roofs jisse hain nearly chapta hain gyat as low-pitch roofs ( as the kaun of dhalan increases , so the pich is khaa to badan ) .
khoi chadar of samri prutt to kaar a chapat or low-pitched chaat is praha gyat as a jilli aor the prathak purpose of yaa lillo is to waterproof the chaat chartel .
samri kiya kaar chapat roofs typically allow the jala to chalan bandh isse a patla inclination or camber into a gutter pralil .
jala isse kuch chapat roofs aisa as on gardan sheds sometimes bahti freely bandh the kinare of a chaat , halik gutter prilonin hain of labh in keeping dano divaren aor mulaar shusk .
drenj on choti roofs praha seese jala sidhe onto the maidan , or behtar , into a vishar bana soakaway .
drenj on larger roofs praha seese jala into the rainwater nale praliy of khoi nirm up chartel .
occasionally chapat roofs halki hain designed to collect jala in a pool , praha liya aesthetic udsey , or liya rainwater buffering .
chata roofs mood seb over the sanaar aor pratk chartel raai isko apna paraa or varta liya samri prutt .
in warmer climes jaha varsha is kaam aor jamne is asalin to occur , anek chapat roofs hain baae nirm of chini or kantit aor inse is shoh at keeping aut the umsho of the suory aor susti aor asaan to nirman jaha timber is nahi readily apaalan .
in ctetto jaha the chaat could become srnpt by barat aor lika , or jaha jala soaked into the brickwork could ferj to barf aor yaun seese to 'blowing ' ( tokar up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the vistar of barf as it form ) yaa roofs hain nahi upkot .
traditionally sabse chata roofs in the pushi sanaar meke upag of tarol or adhek praha tarol pepar lagoo over chaat alakar to kharna a bhann watertight .
the tarol or tarpaper is in farr covered in baari to kharna the suory 's umsho , uv kirne aor masam bandh it aor helps protect it isse cracking or blistering aor degradation .
chaat alakar is praha of fluvi , chipboard or osb falak ( osb = unm strand falak , bhii gyat as strining falak ) of around 18mm moti .
the tarol cotting is lagoo in eke or adhek coats as a hot drav , heated in a tarol ketly , or as chadre of tarol impregnated 'paper ' chapae bas aor sealed saahh at joints by hot tarol - akar it raai cooled , the baari is syer evenly over it .
a prmuk karna liya vifaia of yaa pragat roofs is angama or kami of mentos jaha logo or karm karna the baari to be stirt or removed isse the tarol or tarpaper waterproofing , yaun exposing it to masam aor suory whereupon cracking aor blistering occurs over samay aor hakar jala gets in .
tarpaper is praha a 'paper ' or fibre samri soaked or impregnated in tarol .
as baari can nahi protect tarpaper saatho jaha vey vrdhi khada isse the chaat aisa as on munder divaren or upstands , tarpaper visaan hain idtit saah theek baari lagoo to the hot tarol dauran the prakm of manufacture aisa kiya a sthai pret of baari is stuck to it in anurm to deya it gari surkha .
tarpapers vary in visha as kurta the karri aor prahhsin of those applying it to upaj adhek or kaam kamab pranamn .
in kuch sux climates or chant ctetto yaa blki 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can pichla khoo in sandh to the lagat of samri kharide aor lagat of lata unhe , however the lagat of adhuok lillo aisa as epdm raai aiye bas over haal xalo to meke unhe adhek aor adhek susti .
vahi hain abhi adhek firms supplying adhun kilk aor vahi is generally a growing jugat of unko prashan aor uplata .
if a lika kurta occur on a chata chaat taba khsti praha goes unnoticed liya long avhdi of samay dauran jisse jala penetrates aor soaks the alakar aor khoi insull and/or dacha beneath it .
inse can seese to mahngi khsti isse the dorgan jisse praha develops aor if bayn can weaken the chaat dhana .
vahi hain bhii vinnin swast risks to logo aor pesu swaas the sache beoon : the garrtt of inse swasth rark remains a debated paitin .
eke frboom saah maintaining chapta roofs is kiya if jala kurta ghus the arrove covering ( be it praat or a adhuok jilli ) it can safar a long rasta pahlo causing dras khsti or pakti into a bhann jaha it can be dekhi .
yaun it is nahi asaan to dekhi jaha it is paktte in anurm to mart it .
akar underlying chaat alakar is soaked it praha sags causing a further saghan or puddling of jala in kiya chartel aor the frboom worsens .
a cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed kampatt diskk jisse contains ankda .
the naam is an exirmon jisse stand liya `` kampett diskk read-only merri `` .
computr can pada cd-roms , laciin can nahi likhe on unhe .
cd-roms hain popularly prutt to vitra compott tantra , sahit veeo khel aor maltida arop , halki khoi ankda can be nandrrt ( up to the khsta seema of a diskk ) .
kuch cds , pukra unta cds , thaam dano computr ankda aor aodo saah the latter saxh of hona niya on a cd khild , abki ankda ( aisa as tantra or dital veeo ) is tabhi usable on a computr ( aisa as aeso 9660 swro pc cd-roms ) .
the pila kitab is the tanke maank kiya defines the swrop of cd-roms .
eke of a niyat of color-bound kitab kiya contain the tanke vishat liya seb cd seup , the pila kitab , nirm by sone aor peel , thay the pahlo ectatin of kampatt diskk dital aodo .
it adapted the swrop to thaam khoi roop of ankda .
joon `` jo '' roling ( ) , ( born 31 juliy 1965 ) , kalmi naam J. K. roling , is a angove upnaar , behatin gyat as the lakkk of the hairi kumar calpick shari .
the kumar kitab have gained wipyi dhaan , jeet anek pukra , aor bechi adhek than 400 lakho naal .
vey have become the best-selling kitab shari in ithes , aor marhu the adhar liya a shari of films jisse raai become the highest-grossing filli shari in ithes .
roling thaa overall swieti on the scrit as khoo as maintaining thanak contol by seat as a nirma on the philal kist .
born in yate , tlastar , roling thay working as a shara aor dumiya cchrv liya mafee anthriy jajb dho conceived the vichar liya the hairi kumar shari on a vilat trenn isse manter to landan in 1990 .
the seven-year kala kiya followed entailed the mota of uske maan , talak isse uske pahlo husband aor grrbi aabak roling smapt the pahlo anko in the shari , hairi kumar aor the paros 's stoon ( 1997 ) .
roling subsequently prik 6 kaa pichla , hairi kumar aor the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) kaa khoo as 3 purak to the shari .
in 2012 , roling parted saah uske ansi aor resumed likne in the roop of a tragicomedy anko aimed at wask readership , hakar the kajul rikti .
roling raai kaha dho is filal working on dho kaa aimed liya wasko , the anya liya children younger than the hairi kumar daras , aor dho expects the latter to be prik pahlo .
roling raai led a `` rags to amri `` jivan stori , in jisse dho progressed isse jeena on raay labh to multi-millionaire akat bhitr pach xalo .
dho is the sont kidam 's best-selling lakkk chunki rikar began , saah bakri in excess of kaa .
the 2008 sande tammis sardh suchi anaut roling 's saaya at kaa lakho ( $ 798 lakho ) , ranning uske as the barva richest stri in the sunk kidam .
forbs crem roling as the forty-eighth sabse satli hasti of 2007 , aor samay patricoa namit uske as a runner-up liya isko 2007 witki of the saal , noting the sowal , moral , aor raaatic prana dho raai diye uske prash .
in aktru 2010 , roling thay namit the `` sabse influential stri in bretten '' by agren patricaa smapar .
dho raai become a notable lacke , supporting aisa dhart as comic rahta , eke gank paioon , anek kathiy sama of gree bretten aor lumos ( formerly the children 's unche sthrr smoh ) .
auburndale is a nuagar in polk kanti , flordar , sont raay .
the yankiti thay 11,032 at the 2000 yankise .
according to the u.s yankis estimates of 2005 , the nuagar thaa a yankise of 12,381 .
it is bhag of the lakeland kaa shit hawan mahag sankhy chartel .
hurricane isal ( 2003 ) as dekhi isse sasha dauran expedition 7 of the anthriy sgec statio .
the nazar , eyewall , aor surrounding rainbands , vishat of tivra cyclones , hain clearly dras in inse dras isse sgec .
a tivra ccarva is a tufan praliy characterized by a low-pressure bech ghire by a parpil wasth of thunderstorms kiya upaj madar hawan aor bhari barat .
tivra cyclones strengthen jajb jala cafur isse the smander is released as the srnpt aeyr udai , resulting in sannnn of jala waah contained in the name aeyr .
vey hain fueled by a alag umsho yantii than anya cyclonic windstorms aisa as nor'easters , uoriyp windstorms , aor drewiy chaav .
the characteristic kiya separates tivra cyclones isse anya cyclonic prylloninn is kiya at khoi unchi in the mahal , the bech of a tivra ccarva hoga be warmer than isko pravesh ; a ghatna pukra `` garma camer `` tufan prylloninn .
the pada `` tivra '' refers dano to the chagol utti of yaa prilonin , jisse praha roop in tivra regions of the gloob , aor to unko gathan in mariam tivra aer masses .
the pada `` ccarva '' refers to aisa tufan ' cyclonic proti , saah counterclockwise hona prava in the utare galhad aor clockwise hona prava in the dhasin gllar .
the vipart disha of the hona prava is a pranamin of the corrilos fors .
depending on isko sthan aor sackit , a tivra ccarva is referred to by names aisa as hurricane ( , ) , tufan ( ) , tivra tufan , cyclonic tufan , tivra vasad , aor base ccarva .
abki tivra cyclones can upaj atdich satli hawan aor malhar barat , vey hain bhii smath to upaj unchi lahre , damaging tufan surge , aor tornadoes .
vey develop over visal laase of garma jala , aor khoo unko sackit if vey mowa over jamin due to increased satah garhhan aor ghata of the garma smander as an urja corse .
inse is kyon tatiy regions can prapt significant khasti isse a tivra ccarva , abki adtrdiyo regions hain acrat surtit isse receiving madar hawan .
bhari rains , however , can upaj significant baad adtrdiyo , aor tufan surges can upaj extensive tatiy baad up to isse the takha .
halik unko praaav on insan populations can be vinker , tivra cyclones can relieve sukha sharte .
vey bhii carry umsho urja dhur isse the cinkhnn aor hatran it toward shithon latitudes , jisse makes unhe an marhan bhag of the wash dovelim parana yantii .
as a pranam , tivra cyclones shata to maintain suntlun in the darti 's bhsnl , aor to maintain a acrat stable aor garma tapan wisy .
anek tivra cyclones develop jajb the dovelin sharte around a kajar disturbance in the mahul hain anku .
the fushri parva is modulated by climatological chakra aor patan aisa as the madden-julian doln , el kaa doln , aor the atalac multidecadal doln .
anya roop jajb anya parkar of cyclones acquire tivra vishate .
tivra prilonin hain taba sthrn by purahla hawan in the bhnnl ; if the sharte remain anku , the tivra disturbance intensifies , aor can bhii develop an nazar .
on the anya smapt of the nark , if the sharte around the prali deteriorate or the tivra ccarva makes landfall , the praliy weakens aor hakar dissipates .
it is nahi sans to artificially induce the dissipation of yaa prilooin saahh varman prikii .
kirk dgals ( born issur danielovitch , ; dismar 9 , 1916 ) is an amri stes aor filli karta , filli nirma aor lakkk .
uske lercoria films shaml aut of the paste ( 1947 ) , chainn ( 1949 ) , ikka in the chade ( 1951 ) , the kharab aor the khubte ( 1952 ) , 20,000 ling antra the smadra ( 1954 ) , havas liya jivan ( 1956 ) , rahe of mahima ( 1957 ) , gunfight at the o.k . corral ( 1957 ) , the wannix ( 1958 ) , staatsr ( 1960 ) , nirzan hain the ver ( 1962 ) , saat deno in may ( 1964 ) , the naak of telemark ( 1965 ) aor muskl yaro ( 1986 ) .
he is no.17 on the amri filli santhan 's suchi of the mataam pursh amri serin muruh of seb samay , banana ussy the highest-ranked jeena witt on the suchi .
in 1996 , he prapt the adami mand pukar `` liya 50 xalo as a tarank aor moral fors in the gati hitrr jatio . ''
he is eke of the pichla surviving airtoon isse holoid 's `` sunhe aoo '' .
rabrt claak `` bob '' seger ( born may 6 , 1945 ) is an amri chatnn aor fenke singer-songwriter , guitarist aor pianist .
as a locally kamab detroit-area clakar , he performed aor ankit as bob seger aor the pichla sona aor bob seger pralil throughout the 1960s .
by the jaldi 1970s , he thaa dropped the `` prali '' isse uske renaidin aor gari to niet liya broader kama saah anya vinnin bands .
in 1973 , he put saahh the candi goli band , a smoh of detroit-area santroi , saah zisko he became sabse kamab on the nashl sthrr saah the ellam seav goli , ankit seav saah the candi goli bend in 1975 at cobo ghol in detr , mixagnn .
in 1976 , he hasil a nasal bret saah the stiyi ellam ratri chale .
on uske stiyi ellam , he bhii worked extensively saah the alabama-based masisme shoals laya khand , jisse appeared on anek of seger 's best-selling singles aor ellam .
a jade rakar saah a clask raspy , chilaa aage , seger lika aor ankit gito kiya dealt saah priemium , mahlo , blue-collar vist aor thay an exemplar of heartland chatan .
seger raai ankit anek hitas , sahit `` ratri chale , '' `` farr the pees , '' `` we 've mila tonight , '' `` virdho the hona , '' aor shakedown kiya thay lika liya bewli phaan cop ii aor `` jaise a chatan , '' aor bhii co-wrote the egls ' number-one hit `` heartache tonight . ''
uske iconic readiinin of `` budha samay chatan aor fenke `` thay namit eke of the gito of the sadi in 2001 .
saah a karir spanning pach saako , seger continues to perform aor rakar aage .
seger thay inducted into the chatan aor fenke ghol of kitri in 2004 aor the songwriters ghol of kitri in 2012 .
rihard milhous nisna ( janri 9 , 1913 kaa apryl 22 , 1994 ) thay the 37th addhs of the sont raay , seat isse 1969 to 1974 , jajb he became the tabhi addhs to ista the daftar .
nisna thaa previously parosa as a rapblonn u.S. prtthin aor sintre isse cllnrinri aor as the 36th vaisa addhs of the sont raay isse 1953 to 1961 .
nisna thay born in yorba linda , cllaronri .
he greet isse whittier kalag in 1934 aor dyok vishoo sula of vidhi in 1937 , returning to chllaroine to abaas vidhi .
he aor uske biwi , paete nixan , sthan to vashiton to karya liya the sanhhy sarki in 1942 .
he subsequently parosa in the sont raay neve dauran sanaar hudd ii .
nisna thay nicv in cllaronri to the haas of prtthin in 1946 aor to the sinte in 1950 .
uske pursuit of the alger hiss mamla sthpt uske pratha as a agri anti-communist , aor elevated ussy to nashl prominence .
he thay the karsyloa mate of dwiat D. anjar , the rapblonn parti adchya nominee in the 1952 chana .
nisna parosa liya arth xalo as vaisa addhs .
he waged an unsuccessful adchya aiaan in 1960 , narrowly khone to jaan F. kende , aor khoya a rees liya rajal of chlliroir in 1962 .
in 1968 , he bhaga again liya the prissi aor thay nicv .
halik nisna initially escalated amriaa 's baarde in the nitan hudd , he subsequently ended u.S. baarde in 1973 .
nisna 's vikit to the logo 's gantar of chhin in 1972 khole raaic sandh between the dho rashrr , aor he initiated kaa aor the anti-ballistic masil sandhi saahh the sovet samnh the vahi saal .
domestically , uske prashan generally embraced netyo kiya transferred sakti isse vashitnn to the raay .
among anya baate , he shurm pahlo to lado karte aor illegal dawaon , imposed madri aor daam nitran , enforced desegregation of kuch dhasinn sulcoon , aor sthtp the prrviy surkha ansi .
halic he presided over the chandra atran shurt saah aplo 11 , he scaled waps manteen seep khoje .
he thay re-elected by a bulknn in 1972 .
nisna 's duori pada dekhi an arab aala embargo , the ista of uske vaisa addhs , spiro agnew , aor a continuing shari of khulas prachy the vartagen kand aor anya misconduct by saanoy of the prashan .
the kand escalated , costing nisna much of uske raaatic support , aor on aag 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the phans of lagbh nisht mhoooog aor hatna isse daftr .
bada uske ista , he controversially prapt a pardon gari by uske successor , jardl ghata .
in rintemn , nisna 's karya as an elder statesman , authoring anek kitab aor undertaking anek vidhe yatriae , helped to rehabilitate uske palcie hitrr .
he suffered a debilitating strok on apryl 18 , 1994 , aor died haar deno bada at the aoo of 81 .
{ { infobox sintre
the doman gantar annexation sandhi caused kadwa contention between addhs grant aor sen. sumner .
bredi 1869 ] ]
sen. sumner , opposed to amri savra in the caribbean aor fearful kiya annexation hota seese to the conquest of the neighboring blaec gantar of hatti , became kaal kiya bhathar lay piche the sandhi , aor kiya meen bandh to the addhs saza in the bhathar .
as addhs of the sinte vidhe sandh kamit , sen. sumner initially withheld uske raai on the sandhi on janri 18 , 1870 .
sen. sumner thad marhu lika sucha isse shauk cchrvi of raay , bancroft device , kiya u.s . naval jazan yhoo hona prutt to protect addhs kaa .
sen. sumner 's kamit voted virdh annexation aor at sen. kaa suwa aor cofee sansht to shej the parti isse an bhada lado or the addhs isse sharmin , the sinte aegt isko bhaas of the sandhi piche bandh dwara in kariila suthra .
addhs grant persisted aor bhaja sansee to corgens in hasan of annexation on kuch 14 , 1870 , aor may 31 , 1870 .
in bandh suthra , sen. sumner spoke aut virdh the sandhi ; warnng kiya vahi hota be parashe saah the vidos naroim , noting the dirlcil vidro kiya took plale on the dewp , aor the rark kiya the swatta of hati , pahan by the sont raay in 1862 , hota be khoya .
sumner stated kiya grant 's upag of the u.S. neve as a prottet thay a ulnn of anthriy vidhi aor asaakin .
hakar , on juon 30 , 1870 the sandhi thay voted on by the sinte aor pifal to labh the jarri 2/3 bhuut liya sandhi doohi .
the following dena , addhs grant , aaaas gadri by sen. sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa bandh dost J. lothrop motley , dut to bretten .
by ptatad , sumner 's neeji dusmin to the addhs thay palcic gyan , aor he blamed the ccevi of raay liya failing to have resigned , blki than let grant have uske rasta .
the dho meen , mitro aabak taba , cooled into kadwa dusmon .
in dismar , 1870 , sthil fearful kiya grant meant to acquire sento domon somehow , sumner diya a fiercely naun waka accusing the addhs of usurpation aor babcock of unethical conduct .
already , addhs grant , smarth by uske cchrv of raay hamati machli , thaa initiated a aiaan to depose sumner isse the addcht of the sinte vidhe sandh kamit .
halki sumner stated he thay an `` prashan man '' , in jod to having roka grant 's doman gantar sandhi attempt , sumner thad prrat grant 's pura repeal of the karyal of daftr adhinn , avert grant 's naman of sinder stiver to u.S. cchrv of rashh , aor marhu a nirtar harassing fors pushing punman netyo teaj than grant thaa marhu willing to go .
grant resented sumner 's badpan of manner , as khoo .
batai akar kiya sumner kiya nahi manana in the bael , the addhs is supposed to have khaa kiya he thay nahi chaket : `` he kiya n't likhe it . ''
as the darar between grant aor sumner increased , kaa swast began to manhi .
jajb the 42nd u.S. corgens convened on kuch 4 , 1871 , sitro sandh saah addhs grant , gyat as kaa kaa voted to oust sen. sumner isse the sinte vidhe sandh kamit addcht .
caaar achar ( bhii cortes achar ) is a roop of lagoo achar or pesher achar kiya examines netak siddan aor moral or netak samnsy kiya utaa in a caaar parva .
it applies to seb faluo of caaar conduct aor is pranic to the conduct of individuals aor sunnr santhan .
caaar achar raai dano normative aor tarnakk aaman .
as a cortes abaas aor a karir specialization , the fillu is primarily normative .
lada attempting to samze caaar bartav employ tarnakk vidhi .
the daura aor maatr of caaar netak mudde reflects the bacht of profit-maximizing bartav saahh non-economic chiyten .
beaj in caaar achar trat dramatically dauran the 1980s aor 1990s , dano bhitr prmuk corporations aor bhitr academia .
liya udarnn , aage sabse prmukh corporations prahr unko pratha to non-economic maana antra headings aisa as achar kood aor sohll jimar charters .
adam smith khaa , `` logo of the vahi wapar seldom mile saah , bhii liya merriment aor diversion , lackin the talva ends in a dhantar virdh the palcie , or in kuch contrivance to hathe kimti . ''
sarke uppg kanun aor regulations to paitin caaar bartav in kaya vey perceive to be faade dishin .
achar implicitly regulates chatto aor vivan of bartav kiya suth pura sarki contol .
the emergence of visal corporations saah simit sandh aor swasha to the smandon in jisse vey operate trrt the vikas of accric achar regimes .
a barna is a parkar of chote to flesh or sikne caused by ushmo , vido , rasan , garhan , or vikrinn .
sabse burns affect tabhi the sathi sikne ( gyat as sathi or pahlo upadi ) or extend into the deeper sikne lackin do nahi involve the pura moti of the sikne ( gyat as aanic moti or duori upadi ) .
rarely seb parto of the sikne or deeper utko , aisa as masisi or asthi can be ghal in jisse mamla the barna is either pura moti ( tisra upadi ) or choth upadi .
the upaar jarri depends on the garrtt of the barna .
sathi burns sansht pranh saah choti adhek than saral paida hattra abki prmuk burns may aakta prolonged upaar in specialized barna centers .
colling saah tap jala may shata paida aor ghati khsti however if exapar is prolonged it may pranam in kaam deh tapan .
aanic moti burns may aakta safai saahh saboon aor jala followed by dressings .
pholo chahi typically be bayn khand .
pura moti burns praha aakta saral upaar aisa as sikne kalmi aor extensive burns praha aakta visal rashi of intravenous fluids .
the sabse aam jatooi of burns hain samnin to sankar .
abki visal burns can be fatal , adhunk upaar viksit in the pichla 50 xalo have significantly improved the outcomes , vishar in children aor yag waskl .
globally prachy 11 lakho logo talas chikta upaar aor 300,000 logo die isse burns .
in the sonte raay , of those admitted to a barna bech , lagbh 4 % die isse unko choto .
the long pada nisha is primarily samnin to the akar of barna aor the aoo of the witt effected .
the atalac smander , nahi sahit artic aor antaak regions
inse veeo thay liya by the crom of expedition 29 on falak the iss .
the pass starts isse base north-east of the dwap of nilfanded over the utar atalac smander to contrl afri , over dhasin sudan .
the atalac smander is the second-largest of the sanaar 's oceanic vinaan .
saah a kool chartel of prachy , it kaar lagch 20 pritt of the darti 's satah aor prachy 29 pritt of isko jala satah chartel .
the pahlo bhag of isko naam refers to atalas of yuni mythology , banana the atalac the `` smadra of atalls '' .
the oldest gyat zikr of `` atalac '' is in the histories of hiroos around 450 bc ( hdt . 1.202.4 ) : atalint thllaa ( yuni : kaa kaa ; angrij : smadr of atalls ) .
the pada ethiopic smander , nikla isse ithyaa , thay lagoo to the dhasinn atalac as latt as the mid-19th sadi .
pahlo europeans khoja anya maaaar , the pada `` smander '' itself thay synonymous saah the waters pura the wasnich of jiblert kiya we abhi jaan as the atalac .
the jaldi yonon believed inse smander to be a gigantic nadi encircling the sanaar .
the atalac smander occupies an elongated , s-shaped jalay extending longitudinally between uoryshar aor afri to the istt , aor the americas to the vaste .
as eke ghatak of the interconnected wash smander , it is kante in the utar to the artic smander ( jisse is sometimes maano a smadra of the atalac ) , to the prast smander in the chhdshan , the bhartia smander in the southeast , aor the dhasinn smander in the dhasin .
( anya prahypi describe the atalac as extending southward to ataric . )
the equator subdivides it into the utar atalac smander aor dhasin atalac smander .
due to unko long-term hatt , aor the need liya a adviti pachar in issuing forecasts aor chation , tivra cyclones aor upsh cyclones hain diye names according to niti ( dekhi tivra ccvaat naaanna ) .
the following hain suchin isse jisse yaa tivra aor upphsn ccvar names hain nikla .
swath layit is dispersed by a primj into the rango of the atpical nark .
the dras nark is the portion of the elactictenne nark kiya is dras to ( can be detected by ) the insan nazar .
elactictenne vikrinn in inse daura of wavelengths is pukra drasy layit or base layit .
a ther insan nazar hoga respond to wavelengths isse prachy 390 to 700 nm .
in sharte of rvrti , inse corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa thz .
a light-adapted nazar generally raai isko adacht swashati at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ) , in the grean pradesh of the atpical nark ( dekhi : depti jalne ) .
the nark kurta nahi , however , contain seb the rango kiya the insan aakhe aor dimag can fark .
aratt rango aisa as lulai , or jamin visaan aisa as magenta , hain anupitt , liya udarnn , cumi vey can be bana tabhi by a mixar of anek wavelengths .
rango containing tabhi eke wavelength hain bhii pukra pure rango .
drasy wavelengths pass through the `` atpical khide `` , the pradesh of the elarctitinn nark jisse allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the darti 's mahal .
an udarnn of inse ghatna is kiya saaf aeyr scatters blon layit adhek than redd wavelengths , aor so the midday asaan appears bllu .
the atpical khide is bhii pukra the dras khide cumi it overlaps the insan dras jawab nark .
the nikat indrrde ( nir ) khide suth base aut of the insan dushi , as khoo as the media wavelength ir ( mwir ) khide aor the long wavelength or dhur indrrde ( lwir or fir ) khide halki anya pesu may anuv unhe .
anek prati can dekhi layit saahh barbant bahar the `` dras nark , '' jisse is parah in sharte of insan dushi .
machoni aor anek anya kiet can detect paragin layit , jisse helps unhe dhonde mard in pushpi .
santrr prati kiya nirra on kiet paran may owe reproductive kama to unko roop in paragi layit , blki than kasa rangnn vey appear to inson .
pashyon , too , can dekhi into the parani ( kaa nm ) , aor kuch have sex-dependent markings on unko plumage kiya hain dras tabhi in the paragi daura .
anek pesu kiya can dekhi into the parani daura , however , can nahi dekhi redd layit or khoi anya reddish wavelengths .
machomi ' dras nark ends at prachy 590nm , baase pahlo the nargi wavelengths pranh .
pashyon , however , can dekhi kuch redd wavelengths , lackin nahi as anek as inson .
zebras ( or ) hain anek prati of afri equids ( ghoda privar ) sont by unko distinctive blaec aor swath dharni .
unko dharni aiye in alag patan , advit to pratke wiqtit .
vey hain generally sohll pesu kiya seav in choti harems to visal herds .
napans unko closest reshoro , ghode aor asses , zebras have never marhu truly domesticated .
vahi hain tinn prati of zebras : the maidan jabra , the kaa 's jabra aor the pahad jabra .
the maidan jabra aor the pahad jabra belong to the subgenus hippotigris , lackin kaa 's jabra is the akaar prati of subgenus dolichohippus .
the latter resembles an gadha , to jisse it is closely samnin , abki the purva dho hain adhek horse-like .
seb tinn belong to the genus equus , saah saahh anya jeena equids .
the adviti dharni of zebras meke unhe eke of the pesu sabse prabhi to logo .
vey occur in a kismo of habitats , aisa as grasslands , savannas , vuddlind , thorny scrublands , kyu , aor tatiy phaan .
however , vinnin anthropogenic carom have thaa a kathor praaav on jabra populations , in particular shakar liya khale aor aavas vinsh .
kaa 's jabra aor the pahad jabra hain endangered .
abki maidan zebras hain much adhek plentiful , eke subspecies , the quagga , became vilup in the latt 19th sadi kaa halic vahi is filal a yagana , pukra the quagga prottet , kiya aims to nsal zebras kiya hain phenotypically saaman to the quagga in a prakm pukra pranan waps .
bairi swath , born bairi yujin kaatr ( kaa ) , thay an amri composer aor singer-songwriter .
a two-time grami pukra -winner gyat liya uske distinctive baaas aage aor romatic hitrr , swath 's mataam kama aaye in the 1970s as a xolo singar aor saah the priemim asit arkara , crafting anek enduring attm , durg , aor disko gito aisa as uske dho biggest hitas , `` tuma 're the pahla , the pichla , my subk `` aor `` ca n't milenge prapt of apna priemimm , beab . ''
saah saah ishak haze , swath is maano by allmusic.com as a paiior of disko muc in the jaldi 1970s .
dauran the corss of uske karir in the muck caaar , swath hasil 106 sunhar ellam wisy , 41 of jisse bhii attained pletinem akat .
swath thaa 20 sunha aor 10 pletinem singles , saah wisy bakri in excess of 100 lakho , according to achoon ed hogne aor ved kergan .
uske praaav shaml reve . jems cloved , rayr charlas , arthia fricolin plals motown caloom the supremes , the haar taap aor marvi gaye .
annji goli ( , born annji goli vout ; juon 4 , 1975 ) is an amri aahiti , filli nidsk , aor screenwriter .
dho raai prapt an adami pukra , dho serin aithoon gill pukra , aor tinn sunhe glob pukrar , aor thay namit holid 's highest-paid aahiti by forbs in 2009 aor 2011 .
goli promotes humanitarian kanari , aor is vika liya uske karya saah shartoon as a khaas envoy aor purva sokh dut liya the sont rashra unchi khanir liya sharthon ( unhcr ) .
dho raai praha marhu cited as the sanaar 's `` sabse khubrt '' stri , a sherak liya jisse dho raai prapt substantial midia dhaan .
goli bana uske serin debu as a chailad alongside uske pita jon vout in lookin ' to milenge aat ( 1982 ) , lackin uske filli karir began in schai a shaq bada saah the low-budget utpann sarbog 2 ( 1993 ) .
uske pahlo agri bumk in a prmuk filli thay in the cyber-thriller hicsa ( 1995 ) .
dho stakhra in the critically acclaimed biographical talvin films zarg valas ( 1997 ) aor gia ( 1998 ) , aor jeet an adami pukar liya behtan supporting aahiti liya uske prashan in the natak ladke , badit ( 1999 ) .
goli hasil chaude kitri bada uske portrayal of veeo khel naic larla cref in larla cref : mabra redrir ( 2001 ) , aor sthtp herself among the highest-paid ahrritno in holid saah the sequel the palna of jivan ( 2003 ) .
dho gari uske karve sthr karir saah mr. & mrs. smith ( 2005 ) aor chahe ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated wyniik salaao to kaa prapt further naun acclaim liya uske prashan in the dramas a mighty dila ( 2007 ) aor changeling ( 2008 ) , jisse arj uske a naman liya an adami pukar liya behatin aahiti .
goli bana uske directorial debu saah the wartime natak in the jamin of rakt aor medo ( 2011 ) .
talak inse aithoon jani liele milar aor beli bob thrtnn , goli abhi jivana saah karta bredd pitt , in a sandh notable liya fervent midia dhaan .
goli aor pitt have tinn biological children aor tinn apnya children .
a pratic mahra idpit by the apadn of differentially weathered chatnn in jebel kharaz , jardan
apadn is the prakm by jisse marda aor chatan hain removed isse the darti 's satah by exogenetic prinion aisa as hona or jala prava , aor taba transported aor deposited in anya sthai .
abki apadn is a pratic pram , insan krenian have increased by 10-40 tamiam the rayte at jisse apadn is occurring globally .
excessive apadn kanari samnsy aisa as marulann , decreases in agricultural utda due to jamin degradation , sedimentation of galro , aor ecological patan due to ghata of the nutrient samrdh apar marda parto .
jala aor hona apadn hain abhi the dho prathak kanari of jamin degradation ; sont , vey hain jimer liya 84 % of degraded acreage , banana excessive apadn eke of the sabse significant wash prrviy smasye .
addoii krshi , nawa , sadke , anthropogenic alou badle aor shari sprawl hain amongst the sabse significant insan krynana in lieae to unko praaav on stimulating apadn .
however , vahi hain anek apaalin wapak jamin uppg practices kiya can katna or seema apadn , aisa as chaat -building , no-till krshi , aor revegetation of denuded soils .
jarsi shore is an amri vasta talvin shari jisse bhaga on amviti isse dismar 3 , 2009 to dismar 20 , 2012 in the sont raay .
the shari phalo the jivana of arth housemates bita unko garman at the jarsi shore in the u.S. raay of nayi jarsi .
ritu 2 followed the daala escaping the thanda puotar shit to mixi bech , saahh ritu 3 returning to the jarsi shore .
the choth ritu , filma in itli , premiered on agst 4 , 2011 .
the dikha lauta liya a paavo ritu , at seaside hattas on janri 5 , 2012 .
the paavo ritu finale aired on kuch 15 , 2012 .
on kuch 19 , 2012 , amveti pushi kiya the shari hota wapsi liya unko chate ritu .
on agst 30 , 2012 , amvet hogt kiya the shari hoga smapt bada the chate ritu , jisse premiered on aktru 4 .
the shari finale aired on dismar 20 , 2012 .
the dikha debuted amid visal amounts of vivad regarding the uppg of the sabd `` guido / guidette , '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes , aor scrutiny isse sthaniy cumi the daala saxy yaud nahi neecovan of the chartel .
the shari garnered rakar darja liya amveti , banana it the samal 's sabse viewed shari telecast kahi .
the shari ' daala have bhii marhu credited saah introducing adviti lexicon aor vaskhyn into amri lercoria santi .
the vishoon of shego aor the vishoon of ohla hain among the shank santhon kiya have thaa varg or samnlon prrchy the dikha .
in 2010 , the daala of jarsi shore thay namit on barba walters ' 10 sabse fascinating logo suchi , aor the shari raai chunki marhum exported to darno of deso wipyi .
vahi hain anek remakes of the dikha in anya deso , saahh dho niyat in the sont kidam ; the khoo gyat geordie shore , niyat in niscal upon tyne , inglid .
the anya is the ghatoon , the velsh smatll , jisse is filma aor niyat in cardi .
the tabhi anya adhak remak of the dikha is kaa shore , niyat in kaa , sepan .
sahi
sont raay territory is khoi extent of pradesh antra the chastar of the sanhiyn sarki of the sont raay , sahit seb waters ( around ailedids or mapadi tracts ) aor seb u.s . naval bartan .
the sont raay raai traditionally proclaimed the sovereign adhro liya exploring , exploiting , conserving , aor monjing isko territory .
inse extent of territory is seb the chartel belonging to , aor antra the dominnen of , the sont raay sanhhy sarki ( jisse shaml tracts lying at a ulhara isse the desh ) liya prashan aor anya udsey .
the sont raay kool territory shaml a upcham of raaatic vinan .
the u.S. sarki is a sarki saahh prativet shatiya antra the sont raay swanhann .
`` the shatiya nahi prativet to the sont raay by the swanhann , nor nisha by it to the raay , hain surkit to the raay crash , or to the logo '' by the daswa amendment .
tarmen 3 : vrdhi of the mashen ( commonly abbreviated as t3 ) is a 2003 vigaan fiction karve filli nisdh by juthn mostow aor abhin arndn swaaner , upnam stahl , clean danes aor kristanna loken .
it is the duori sequel to the tarmen ( 1984 ) .
bada ccien fails to maar saara connor pahlo uske bete is born aor to maar jaan kood as a chailad , it bhana waps another tarmen , the t-x , in an attempt to wipe aat as anek prithor ahrcoron as sansit .
inse shaml jaan 's shaviy biwi , lackin nahi jaan kood as uske whereabouts hain anjan to ckinent .
jaan 's jivan is lagay in khatre jajb the t-x accidentally pata ussy .
a cord of lacdi
the cord is a kayi of mea of shusk aage prutt in kanda aor the sont raay to mea adhnn aor pulpwood .
a cord is the rashi of lacdi kiya , jajb `` crem aor khoo stowed '' ( arranged so tukde hain lakir , smantar , choo aor kampatt ) , occupies a aage of .
inse corresponds to a khoo stacked woodpile unchi , long , aor gahne ; or khoi anya wasth of rakik mea kiya yields the vahi aage .
the naam cord sansht aata isse the uppg of a cord or strining to mea it .
the , is an 8-bit handa veeo khel antar viksit aor manufactured by nento .
it thay released in japani on , in utar amrraa in , aor in uoriyp on .
it is the pahlo handa kanjol in the khel ladke lakir , aor thay nirm by gunpei yokoi aor neeto shadh & vikas 1 kaa vahi starf jau thad designed the khel & dekhe shari as khoo as anek lercoria khel liya the neeto entertainment praliy .
redesigned sankar you released in 1996 aor 1998 , in the roop of khel ladke jeeb , aor khel ladke layit ( japani tabhi ) , crash .
the khel ladke is neeto 's duori handa prali following the khel & dekhe shari introduced in , aor it sont shuvien isse dano the nento entertainment praliy aor khel & dekhe .
it thay originally bundled saah the pahle khel teriis .
as bhag of the choth pedhe of eeming , the khel ladke competed saah the sega khel gier , atari linnx , aor the turboexpress .
despite yaa anya technologically shath handa consoles , the khel ladke thay a jwart kama .
the khel ladke aor isko successor , the khel ladke ranga , have dano sont bechi 118.69 lakho ikii wisy .
upon isko reezl in the sonte raay , it bechi isko sunnr sipment of eke lakho ikii bhitr sapath .
the sanaar wapar bech is a jatl of imatre antra nirman in nimnar mahate , nayi yaak nuagar , sont raay , replacing an pahlo jatl of saat imarte saah the vahi naam on the vahi sayit .
the asli sanaar waar bech prishit landrm juda minare , jisse khole on apryl 4 , 1973 aor yaud nasht in the sitabar 11 hamle of 2001 , saah saah 7 sanaar wapar bech .
the anya imatre in the jatl yau chustit in the hamle , aor unko tabah yhoo hakar demolished .
the sayt is hona rebuilt saahh pach nayi skyscrapers aor a marrolor to those maare in the hamle .
, tabhi eke skyscraper raai marhu smapt ; the anya haar hain apeictt to be smapt pahlo 2020 .
eke sanaar wapar bech hoga be the seese bhann liya the nayi jatl , reaching adhek than 100 khaninn at isko purtna .
it became the tallest bhann in nayi yaak nuagar on apryl 30 , 2012 , aor is apecht to be smapt by 2013 .
a chate minar is prictat pushi .
at the samay of unko purtna , the asli 1 sanaar waar bech ( the utar minar ) aor 2 sanaar waar bech ( the dhasin minar ) , gyat collectively as the `` juda minare '' , yaud the tallest imarte in the sanaar .
the anya imatre shaml 3 wtc ( the marte sanaar waar bech ) , 4 wtc , 5 wtc , 6 wtc , aor 7 wtc .
seb of yaa imarte yhoo nirm between 1975 aor 1985 .
the lagat liya the nirman thay $ 400 lakho ( $ in doller ) .
the jatl thay stith in the dila of nayi yaak nuagar 's shar vittiy jala aor contained 13.4 lakho varar phit ( 1.24 lakho m2 ) of daftar ssep .
the sanaar wapar bech anui a aag on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 aor a dakati on , 1998 .
in 1998 , the bardhoo phikar decided to privatize the sanaar wapar bech , patte the imarte to a neeji compnni to manje , aor awarded the patte to silverstein gune in .
on the morning of sitabar 11 , 2001 , al-qaeda sandh hijackers uday dho boing 767 jets into the jatl , eke into pratok minar , in a santit atwacedi arman .
bada burning liya 56 mintes , the dhasin minar ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour bada by the utar minar ( 1 ) , saahh the hamle on the sanaar wapar bech resulting in 2,753 mauto .
girna malba isse the minare , sonk saah faar kiya the malba initiated in anek surrounding imatre , led to the aanic or pura patan of seb the anya imarte in the jatl aor caused antrik khsti to teen anya visal structures in the surrounding chartel .
the prakm of clepn aor roove at the sanaar wapar bech sayit took arth mahino .
over the following xalo , yonan liya a rebuilt sanaar wapar bech took roop .
the pahlo nayi bhann at the sayit thay 7 sanaar wapar bech , jisse khole in .
the nimnar minthen vikas nigm ( lmdc ) , sthtp in to oversee the punman prakm , visth pritiyo to choone a sayit yagana aor marrolor denain .
merri mulaar , designed by deniyl libeskind , thay chant as the nupun yagana , laciin inse gari through substantial pravatin in denain .
the nayi sanaar wapar bech jatl hoga shaml eke sanaar waar bech , tinn anya high-rise daftr minare , aor the nasal sitabar 11 marrolor & samrrhle .
sein gibrill kyu
sein bernardino kyu , saahh mt . sein gorgonio in the agri aor biga bhao jhel in the fushri .
the anpustt sienn hain a smoh of pahad siemon of dhasinn chlrinrifa , in the prast coast sieno physiographic pradesh in utar amrraa .
the antpast sieno shoo at the dhasiin smapt of the chllrnfiiro coast siemon aor suth between santa barba aor sein deygo kanti .
vey derive the naam antpash siemo due to unko east-west anvicas , banana unhe anpustt to the samay north-south anvicas of sabse of cllaronri 's tatiy kyu .
aadick talac saah ilcrlitn shewl
an ilarianen shewl may be vichar of as an sasha followed by electrons around an ano 's cendrak .
the closest shewl to the cendrak is pukra the `` 1 shewl '' ( bhii pukra `` k shewl '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shewl '' ( or `` l shewl '' ) , tab the `` 3 shewl '' ( or `` m shewl '' ) , aor so on dhur aor dhur isse the cendrak .
the shewl ashrr k , l , m , ... , prutt in the x-ray sentee , hain varma .
pratok shewl can contain tabhi a ficd cramak of electrons : the 1st shewl can thaam up to dho electrons , the 2nd shewl can tham up to arth electrons , the 3rd shewl can thami up to 18 , aor 4th shewl can thaam up to 32 aor so on .
chunki electrons hain electrically achit to the cendrak , an ano 's electrons hoga generally occupy bahari shewl tabhi if the adhek bhiri shewl have already marhu completely bhar by anya electrons .
however , inse is nahi a sakt aakta : ano may have dho or bhii tinn adhure bahari shewl .
( dekhi madelung niem liya adhek vivan . )
liya an sthatran of kyon electrons mood in yaa shewl dekhi ilariane vinas .
the electrons in the outermost occupied shewl ( or shewl ) determine the rasino gune of the ano ; it is pukra the valence shewl .
pratk shewl consists of eke or adhek subshells , aor pratok subshell consists of eke or adhek paron orbitals .
vickie lynn marsha ( kaa hogne ; nambar 28 , 1967 kaa farr 8 , 2007 ) , gyat by uske moniker anna nikol smith , thay an amri maal , aahiti , aor talvin ittc .
smith pahlo gained laccaria in plable , banane the 1993 sannie of the saal .
dho modeled liya kapda compannon , sahit anda jins aor lene brent .
smith dropped aut of unche sula aor thay shadud in 1985 .
uske atdich publicized duori viva to aal caaar mogul , J. hard marsha , 62 xalo uske varth , resulted in atkele kiya dho shada the octogenarian liya uske dhan , jisse dho asvec .
following marsha 's mota , smith began a lengthy dheaak batll over a share of uske aste .
uske mamla , marsha v. marsha , phonch the u.S. pram adalt on a sawal of sanhhy chastar , aor again on a sawal of dipann adalt phikar ( abhi pukra stern v. marsha ) .
smith died on farr 8 , 2007 in a holid , florrrr ghol rumo as a pranamn of an overdose of nuska dawaon .
bhitr the phaila chaa mahino of uske jivan , smith thay the foos of a narvit dabae karve surrounding the moua of uske bete , deniyl , aor the paternity aor catdii batll over uske vanat bete , dannielynn .
the is eke denomination of japani yeen .
the varman denain thay pahlo minted in 1959 using japani warna gyat as the `` nayi scrit `` , aor yaud bhii minted isse 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' japani warna .
five-yen sikke tithi to 1870 ( jajb , due to the much uchar maana of the yaan , vey yhoo minted in sunha ) .
the samna of the sikka depicts a rais santrr growing aat of the jala , saah `` pach yaan '' lika in kanji ; the waps is stamped saahh `` japani '' aor the saal of smasya , bhii in kanji , alag by sprouts of a pepad .
the tinn grekic tatv of the sikka represent krshi aor fisheries , the kunje tatv of the japani first-sector arvasha .
around a chade , vahi is a gier kiya represents udgo .
it is the tabhi japani sikka in parana to kami arbi numerals on either phans .
tlc is an amir ladki smoh jinke rangal spanned r & b , hep hoap , attm , durg , aor nayi jokar sula .
originally consisting of singar tionne `` t-boz '' wataoms , rapper lisa `` bayn nazar '' lopes aor singar rozonda `` chilli '' thamas , the smoh mila unprecedented kamay in the 1990s abki bhii enduring a shari of spats saahh the vidhi , pratok anya , aor the smoh 's rakar lebll .
initially , tlc hasil wyniik kama following the reezl of unko debu ellam ooooooohhh ...
on the tlc tep , jisse bechi 6 lakho naal wipsy .
however , it thay unko duori ellam , crazysexycool , kiya catapulted the smoh to superstar akat .
crazysexycool gari on to be certified damnd by the riaa kaa a pahlo liya a mada smoh , aor hakar bechi 23 lakho naal wipei .
pach xalo bada , the smoh released unko tisra ellam fanmail , jisse became the smoh 's pahlo ellam to debum at cramak eke aor bechi adhek than 11 lakho naal wipyi .
the subsequent daura following fanmails reel became the utcham grossing daura of seb samay by a mada band .
in 2002 , lisa `` bayn nazar '' lopes died in a car durtan in hordus .
saat mahino bada , t-boz aor chilli released the smoh 's choth ellam 3d , jisse bechi 2 lakho naal wisy , it prishit unreleased vocals isse baya nazar .
bilarbid patricaa crem tlc as eke of the mataam musical trios .
between 1992 aor 2003 , the band sachint teen shers teen singles , haar cramak eke singles , haar multi-platinum ellam , aor haar grami pukrar .
at the smapt of 1999 , tlc thay crem as the satva sabse kamab adhinn of the 1990s by bilorbid .
in 2008 , the smoh thay inducted into the seb samay hot 100 clakar ghol of kitri by the vahi patricoa , at 56th plale .
kiya saal it thay bhii sudhhd as the # 25 r & b/hip-hop clakar of the preceding 25 xalo .
tlc raai bechi adhek than 65 lakho raad wisy aor vey hain crem as the duori behtan selling madaa smoh of seb samay , aor the behtin selling maada r & b smoh of seb samay .
in 2012 , tlc crem 12th on vh1 's 100 mataam malaoo in muck , hona crem the cramak eke seb ladki smoh on kiya suchi .
tarjan is a 1999 amri aneemid adherer filli idpit by walte dijne visha anmichin aor vitra by walte digne satve .
the 37th filli in the walte dijnn aneemed clasic , it is aarat on the stori tarjan of the apes by adgar rais baroj , aor is the tabhi prmuk gati hitrr sankan of the stori tarjan prapti to be anaemed .
nisdan by cress buck aor coven lima saah a patha by tab marfi , bob tzudiker , aor noni swath , tarjan shuvien the aave of toni goldwyn , minnie dravrr , glean bandh , aor rogi o'donnell saah braan dhan , talar henriksen , vena nati , aor nigal hawthorne .
it thay the pichla bona fide hit pahlo the digne slump of the jaldi 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically aor $ 448,191,819 wipyi , outgrossing isko purvitin hercules ( 1997 ) aor mulan ( 1998 ) .
at the samay of isko reezl , isko utpann baje of $ 130 lakho bana it the sabse mahng aneemed filli kahi bana , aabak awal by dijnne 's apna $ 140 lakho khazana graha in 2002 .
it thay bhii the pahlo digne anaemed visha to khole at # 1 chunki pocahontas .
inse thay the pichla prmuk baas daftar kama of the dijne punna .
aala mach p-51 bandh the brayay coast is a semi-submersible moch .
aal mach mittelplate in the utar smadra
an aala mach , ( offshore mach or colloquially aal rega ) is a visal dhana saahh suvithen to drrli kuon , to nikle aor prakm aala aor pratic gias , aor to temporarily storr utp aabak it can be brought to shore liya shann aor wipan .
in anek mamle , the mach contains suwiani to haas the workforce as khoo .
depending on the halto , the mach may be ficd to the smander manjil , may consist of an crutrim depw , or may flache .
rimat subsea kuon may bhii be kante to a mach by prav layno aor by umbilical konnsocts .
yaa subsea saaaan may consist of eke or adhek subsea kuon , or of eke or adhek manifold ceero liya anek kuon .
dha is the hatya of pesu , praha kiya of rehlu phudnn liya khana .
the pesu sabse commonly slaughtered liya khana hain chapn , jala bhains ( liya beff aor vila ) , seep , barkin ( liya mamne aor matnn ) , suor ( liya pork ) , ghode ( liya ghoda maans ) , aor fowl , largely morooni , turkeys , aor batho aor increasingly machli isse the aquaculture udgo ( machli khati ) .
the swath haas , the addhs 's adhak nivas aor bech of the prashan
antra the sont raay swanhann , the addhs of the sont raay is the sair of raay aor sair of sarkr of the sont raay .
as mukhy of the kariila shokh aor sair of the sanhhy sarki as a purre , the prissi is the utcham ratancij daftar in the sont raay by influence aor manta .
the addhs is bhii the commander-in-chief of the sonte raay haraad shatiya .
the addhs is indirectly nicv to a four-year pada by an choni kalage ( or by the haas of prtthin chahe the chonve kalage asal to pukar an ners bhuut of maat to khoi witt ) .
chunki the autaan of the twenty-second amendment to the sont raay swanhann in 1951 , no witt may be nicv addhs adhek than twice , aor no eke jau raai parosa adhek than dho xalo of a pada to jisse kisi else thay nicv may be nicv adhek than akar .
upon the mota , ista , or hatna isse daftar of an lajim addhs , the vaisa addhs assumes the daftr .
the addhs jarur be at tanik 35 xalo of aoo aor a `` pratic born '' nagric of the sont raay .
inse suchi shaml tabhi those wantoon jau you sworn into daftar as addhs following the autaan of the sont raay swanhann , jisse took praaav on kuch 4 , 1789 .
liya amri netoo pahlo inse autaan , dekhi addhs of the mapdii corgens .
the suchi karta nahi shaml khoi ectiting rastyoo antra the twenty-fifth amendment to the sont raay swanhann .
vahi have marhu 43 logo sworn into daftar , aor 44 presidencies , as goor cloved parosa dho non-consecutive sharte aor is gine khraada as dano the 22nd aor 24th addhs .
of the individuals nicv as addhs , haar died in daftr of pratic kanari ( vilau hanir harsion , zachary tell , varven G. harding , aor frincoin D. rujvelt ) , haar yau assassinated ( abrah lincoln , jems A. fardelfed , leve mckinley , aor jaan F. kende ) aor eke resigned ( rihardes nisna ) .
zarg vashitnn , the pahlo addhs , thay adatan in 1789 bada a sarva vote of the chonve kalag .
lilau hanir harsion karhh the shortest samay in daftar saahh 32 deno in 1841 , aor frnchil D. rujvelt karhh the longest saah over barah xalo , lackin died shortly into uske choth pada in 1945 .
he is the tabhi addhs to serve adhek than dho sharte , aor a swankh amendment , affecting rastyon bada hairi trmon , thay passed to seema the cramak of tammis an wiqtit can be nicrm addhs .
andryo jassan , the satva addhs , thay the pahlo to be nicv by meen of seb varg in 1828 bada sabse kann barring non-land-owners isse matan yhood repealed .
varven harding thay the pahlo nicv bada malaon gained matad adhro in 1920 .
ithes rikar haar rastyoo kaa jaan q admes , rafad B. haze , bennnn harsion aor zarg W. bosh kaa jau khoya the lercori vote lackin assumed daftr .
jaan F. kende raai marhu the tabhi addhs of roman chalic asta , aor the varman addhs , barak uba , is the pahla addhcs of afri descent .
anek firearms saahh detachable suppressors , isse shers to niche : an uzi , an ar-15 , a heckler & koch khast rentic , a beretta 92fs , aor a sig mahhar .
bolt karve rimfire rail saah suppressor
awm-f snipir rail saahh salaan suppressor .
a suppressor , dhani suppressor , or dhani mattrr , is a antar salaan to or bhag of the barul of a firearm jisse reduces the rashi of rarv , aor praha the rashi of muzzle flache , utnan by faaring the hathir .
a suppressor can be prutt dano saahh a firearm aor saah sepii aerr gaane .
halik it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , inse pada is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the dhani of a prash , vishar eke chalti teaj than the gati of dhani , through the aeyr can nahi be eliminated .
using a suppressor in long ulaa suthing ( i.e . vrh than 300 mitr ) can lessen , or retard , the prat at the paal of praaav , aor banan the chhap of khasi nikat the nisha .
the rava sona nikat the muzzle as a prash pette the barul , halki subdued , is nahi muk at seb .
a suppressor is praha a matll belan saahh atric mechanisms to reduce the dhani of faaring by slowing the escaping propellant gias aor sometimes by reducing the gati of the goli .
jaldi suppressors yau nirm around the shurt of the 20th sadi by anek aarika .
amri aarika hiram prssi khat ( nahi to be ulna saah hiram stavs khat , hiram prssi 's pita , aor the aarika of the khat antar ganne ) , is credited saah inventing aor selling the pahlo commercially kamab maal circa 1902 ( patented 30 kuch 1909 ) .
khat diya uske antar the trademarked naam khat silencer .
the mafar liya atric dhan injan thay viksit in smantar saah the firearm suppressor by khat in the jaldi 20th sadi , using anek of the vahi catcoon to provide quieter-running injan ( in anek uoripyo deso atmolo mufflers hain sthil pukra silencers ) .
the sabd silencer in sandhr to ganne suppressor remains in faili upag , halic it raai chunki girr aut of hasna saah kuch , vishar among the firearms udgo , hona replaced saah the adhek vasth steek pada dhani suppressor or baae suppressor , cumi a `` dhani suppressor '' karta nahi `` khasi '' khoi hathir , blki it eliminates muzzle flache aor reduces the sonk dawao of a firearm discharging .
aam upag aor u.S. vidan bhasa hasan the historically pahlo pada , silencer .
in u.S. vidhi , the sharte `` firearm mafar '' aor `` firearm silencer '' hain synonymous .
suppressors yau regularly prutt by aezen of the sunt raay daftr of rentik sevan , jau favored the newly designed unche maank hdm .22 long rail pistle dauran sanaar hudd ii .
oss nidsk leve josse `` genle dheek '' doon demonstrated the pistl liya addhs frichin D. rujvelt at the swath haas .
according to oss shadh mukhy sthil lovle , doon ( an budha aor visewia dost of the addhs ) thay harra into the owal daftr , jaha rujvelt thay dictating a ashrr .
abki rujvelt smapt uske sansee , doon turned uske waps aor fired teen golon into a sandbag he thaa brought saahh ussy , hogt kaya he thaa kiya aor ghaat the dhorpan ganne to the astonished addhs .
the angoe soe ( khaas purahlan kariila ) welrod hatya pistl saahh an ahin suppressor thay bhii prutt by the amri oss on clandestine purahlan in naji occupied uoriyp dauran the duori sanaar hudd .
beatrice `` bea '' arthr ( may 13 , 1922 kaa apryl 25 , 2009 ) thay an amri aahiti , comedienne , aor sinar jinke karir spanned saat saako .
arthr hasil kitri as the ashrr maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms seb in the privar aor maude , aor as dorhe zbornak on the 1980s sitcom the suhrr ladkoyan , jatna ammi pukra liya dano bioan .
a stet aahiti dano pahlo aor bada uske talvin kamay , dho jeet the toni pukra liya behatin prishit aahit in a musical liya uske prashan as virr charlas in the asli daala of mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 japani 3d computer-animated filli aarat on the tekken veeo khel shari , itpit by dital frontier aor vitra by asmik ikka entertainment in samnh saah bandai entertainment .
the film premiered in utar amriaa by bandai entertainment on juli 26 , 2011 , aor in alrtaar on julay 27 , 2011 in a khaas vish one-off seringing .
it thay released on sitabar 3 , 2011 in japani .
the filli thay released on blu-ray disk on nambar 22 , 2011 liya yusy , aor dismar 1 , 2011 liya japani .
inse filli thay bhii released on dvd on nambar 22 , 2011 ( 2d sankan tabhi ) .
the filli thay additionally shaml saah the paatten 3 khel , tekken sankar , aor the neeto 3ds sherak , tekken 3d : prahan sankan .
liya a chara of nonprofit , voluntary paros kalat smoh , dekhi paros samhh .
in the sont raay , a homeowner samnh is a nigm formed by a riyll aste devar liya the purpose of wipan , menjing , aor selling of ghero aor laut in a aavis subdivision .
it andan the dever vishar matad adhro in shasi the samnh , abki allowing the dever to nikas vittiy aor vidak jimar of the santhan , typically by transferring swatt of the samnh to the homeowners bada selling bandh a predetermined cramak of laut .
sasta in the homeowners samnh by a aavis khadrr is typically a condition of kharde ; a khadrr is n't diye an kilk to asvec it .
sabse homeowner assionnnn hain incorporated , aor hain vishy to raay statutes kiya govern non-profit corporations aor homeowner assionn .
raay oversight of homeowner assionn is minimal , aor mukth takes the roop of kann jisse hain asagt isse raay to raay .
kuch raay , aisa as florrrr aor chllrnfiiro , have a visal deh of homeowner samnh vidhi , aor kuch raay , aisa as muccotus , have vasth no homeowner samnh vidhi .
the tivram growing roop of vaaas in the sont raay aage is common-interest developments ( cids ) , a shari kiya shaml planned-unit developments of single-family ghero , condominiums , aor sahari armeten .
chunki 1964 , homeowner assionnen have become increasingly aam in the yusi .
the jatio assionn santhan wapar samnh anaut kiya hoas governed 24.8 lakho amri ghero aor 62 lakho neecovan in 2010 .
a prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
vahi hain anek breeds of gine suar jisse have marhu viksit chunki isko domestication ca . 5000 bc .
breeds vary widely in roop aor purpose , ranging isse dikha breeds saah long , bahti iaal to those in uppg as maal jivo by vigaan .
isse ca . 1200 ad to the sspnn conquest of the inka samry in 1532 , thanak pranan by swash dhasin amri peoples resulted in anek kismo of rehlul gine suar , jisse roop the adhar liya kuch of the adhunk rehlul breeds .
jaldi andean breeds yhoo primarily rakha as agricultural bhandar liya khana , aor pratan at improving the ginne suar as a khana corse continue to the adhun era .
saah the nirt of ginne suor to uoripy in the 15th sadi , the lashy in pranan shifted to foss on the vikas of appealing paltu .
to inse smapt , vinna prashi pranan santhan yhood sapit by fanciers .
the amri cavy pranak samnh , an adjunct to the amri ragho pranak samnh , is the shasi deh in the sont raay aor kanda .
the angove cavy prashad governs cavy clab in the sonte kidam .
saaman santhan mood in alrtaraa ( altriae nashl cavy prashad ) aor nayi jiland ( nayi jiland cavy cloo ) .
pratk cloo publishes isko apna maank of purtna aor determines jisse breeds hain yogya liya prish .
nayi breeds continue to emerge in the 21st sadi .
halic vahi hain anek breeds of ginne suar , tabhi a few breeds hain commonly mila on the dikha talac as paltu .
sabse ginne suar mila as paltu yhood either mila anchin by pranak or yau karva to be sukh paltu regardless of kasa khoo vey mile the nasal maank of purtna .
the choti iball , abyssinian , peruvian aor sheltie ( urja silkie ) breeds hain those sabse asar dekhi as paltu , aor the purva tinn hain the camer breeds in the ithes of the prashi prish of gine suor .
in jod to unko maank roop , nearly seb breeds aiye in a satan tupaar .
satins , due to unko khola iball shafts , possess coats of a khaas gloss aor chaak .
however , vahi is growing pram kiya the jeeno jimer liya the satan kote bhii can karnne kathor asthi samnsy , sahit osteodystrophy aor peete 's bimar .
prish satan vistag is nisha by kuch cavy pranak ' assionnnn cumi of inmll welfare karnne .
seb cavy breeds have kuch saza samay manko : the sair prafileu chahe be rounded , saah visal aakhe aor visal , chikna kano .
the deh chahe be madar aor of kampatt nirman .
kote ranga chahe in seb visaan be clearly parah aor thorough isse root to tep .
yaa manko hain behatin mila by long sthpt , commonly karva breeds , as unko pranaak have thaa prapt samay aor pesu to effectively nsal liya yaa qualities .
the kote ranga adesh of shoh paraha aor thoroughness is rarely mila by anya than the chikna coated breeds , jisse have thaa khoo sthtp , prath pranan layno liya alag ranga .
raay sulcoon ( bhii gyat as palcie slooo or sarki sulcoon ) generally refer to prathak or dwitek slooo mandated liya or offered to seb children bagar chaar shusl liya , in purre or in bhag , by kadaan .
the pada may bhii refer to santhon of post-secondary sisha vitt , in purre or in bhag , aor overseen by sarki .
the ramoo assembles polymeric protin aoon jinke anuom is nintr by the anurm of maxar rna aoon .
inse is jarri by seb jeena komiie aor sandh vaisar .
the ramoo ( isse ribonucleic esid aor the yuni shom , arth `` deh '' ) is a visal aor jatl ann antar , mila bhitr seb jeena komiie , kiya serves as the prathak sayit of biological protin salnshen ( andad ) .
ribosomes kadi amnio acids saah in the anurm nirt by maxan rna ( mrna ) aoon .
ribosomes consist of dho prmuk kaa choti ribosomal subunit padhe the mrna , abki the visal subunit joins amnio acids to roop a polypeptide kadi .
pratke subunit is rchit of eke or adhek ribosomal rna ( rrna ) aoon aor a kismo of protin .
the anurm of diyne ancoii liya a protin may be kalpi anek tammis into maxar rna ( mrna ) ganjor of a saaman anuom .
ribosomes can bind to an mrna kadi aor upag it as a metlee liya determining the sahi anurm of amnoo acids in a particular protin .
amnio acids hain chant , ekrtt aor carried to the ramoo by taraf rna ( trna aoon ) , jisse daale eke bhag of the ramoo aor bind to the maxar rna kadi .
the salaan amnio acids hain taba linked saah by another bhag of the ramoo .
akar the protin is idpit , it can taba 'fold ' to upaj a vishit tarmak three-dimensional dhana .
a ramoo is bana isse dewal of rnas aor pratin aor is isle a ribonucleoprotein .
pratk ramoo is viat into dho subunits : the choti subunit bantaa to the mrna patan , abki the larger subunit bantaa to the trna aor the amnio acids .
jajb a ramoo finishes padna an mrna ano , yaa dho subunits viat alawa .
ribosomes hain ribozymes , cuyi the catalytic peptidyl transferase kalp kiya kadi amnoo acids saah is performed by the ribosomal rna .
ribosomes isse jivon , arkiya aor eukaryotes ( the tinn domen of jivan on darti ) differ in unko akar , anuom , dhana , aor the anpat of protin to rna .
the matde in dhana allow kuch atacbionk to maar jivon by inhibiting unko ribosomes , abki leaving insan ribosomes unaffected .
in jivon aor arkiya , adhek than eke ramoo may mowa saah a singal mrna kadi at eke samay , pratke `` padna '' isko anurm aor producing a samnin protin ano .
the ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic komiye functionally resemble anek chuvien of those in jivan , reflecting the sansit visii utti of mitochondria .
alar klodd , isyi de duve , aor zarg amli palade yhoo jointly awarded the nabule pukra in physiology or arranin , in 1974 , liya the diske of the ribosomes .
the nabule pukkar in rasan 2009 thay awarded to venkatraman ramanh , thamas A. steitz aor aidi E. yonath liya determining the vista dacha aor yantii of the ramoo .
the sarrc atric dhana of a therala
awako of the calvin saylk aor karbann fixation
the light-independent pration of photosynthesis hain rasino pration kiya badle karbann dasicole aor anya yogk into glock .
yaa pration occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled chartel of a tharala bahar of the thylakoid lillo .
yaa pration louo the light-dependent pration aor perform further rasino prinion on unhe .
vahi hain tinn phases to the light-independent pration , collectively pukra the calvin saylk : karbann fixation , katate pration , aor ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( rubp ) regeneration .
despite isko naam , inse prakm occurs tabhi jajb layit is apaalin .
padhe do nahi carry aut the calvin saylk by ratri .
vey , bajay , reel sucrose into the flummiu isse unko mand reserves .
inse pram happens jajb layta is apalan swantr of the dyal of photosynthesis ( c3 karbann fixation , c4 karbann fixation , aor crassulacean asid chaye ) ; kamo padhe storr malic esid in unko vacuoles pratk ratri aor reezl it by dena in anurm to meke inse pram karya .
in ganit , a varar cramak or purna varar is an purnk kiya is the varar of an purnk ; in anya sabd , it is the utp of kuch purnk saah itself .
liya udarnn , 9 is a varar cramak , chunki it can be lika as .
the usual santee liya the suthra liya the varar of a cramak is nahi the utp , laciin the smatll ghaank , praha suna as `` varar '' .
the naam vargar cramak aata isse the naam of the akar ; dekhi niche .
varar sakhnn hain non-negative .
another rasta of saying kiya a ( non-negative ) cramak is a varar cramak , is kiya isko varar jadey hain again integers .
liya udarnn , = kaa , so 9 is a varar cramak .
a dhantak purnk kiya raai no purna varar divisors magar 1 is pukra square-free .
liya a non-negative purnk , the th varar cramak is , saahh hona the zeroth varar .
the ahdra of varar can be vistar to kuch anya cramak prilooinn .
if taran sakhnn hain shaml , taba a varar is the anpat of dho varar integers , aor , conversely , the anpat of dho varar integers is a vargar ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
starting saahh 1 , vahi hain varar sakhnn up to aor sahit , jaha the abkit represents the manjil of the cramak .
the era of shoh jambat hinnt a kala in the raaatic ithes of the sonte raay kiya reflected a chava of nasal purpose aor a khash liya ekta among amrie in the aftermath of the napoleonic yddonn .
the era dekhi the patan of the federalist parti aor an smapt to the kadwa dlaat vivad between it aor the prabpll democratic-republican parti dauran the pahlo parti pralil .
addhs jems muroo endeavored to downplay dlaat sandh in banana uske nominations , saah the pram lashy of nasal ekta aor eliminating partiyo altogether isse nashl rajanti .
the kala is so closely sandh saah muroo 's prissi ( kaa ) aor uske prashak lashy kiya uske naam aor the era hain vasth synonymous .
the era of shoh jambat hinhit a pravarin in amri rajanti saah the smapt of the federalist parti as amrraa began to develop bada the hudd of 1812 .
abki amriaa thay experiencing vikas aor samrhi bada the hudd saah bretten , inse era bhii marks the pahlo udarnn of arthec parachon in the growing sont raay .
mirroring the amri praliy prastv by hanir mitti , sutrak tariffs aor the chartering of the duori banko of the sonk raay jatl the tensh between the utar aor dhasin saah the coming of the pahlo vittiy sanket .
abki the pada kaa of shoh kaa is praha viewed saah vidna cumi of the raaatic turmoil , arthec carom caused animosity between the utar aor dhasin .
the naman of the kala by itraoo as eke of kaa kaa is praha conveyed saah vidna or skepticism , as the ithes of the era thay eke in jisse the raaatic mahal thay strained aor divisive , vishar among gira bhitr the muroo prashan aor the ripallinb parti .
the phrase kaa of shoh kaa thay coined by bennnn rasll , in the bostan federalist maatr , columbian centinel , on julay 12 , 1817 , following muroo 's viki to bostan , muccoas as bhag of uske shoh hoga daura of amrra .
mariel marge `` miya '' hamm ( born kuch 17 , 1972 ) is a riated amri pesher sokar khili .
hamm niya anek xalo as a aage liya the sont raay mahlo 's nashl sokar toli aor thay a founding sasy of the vashitnn swatta .
hamm scored 158 anthrri lashy , adhek than khoi anya khili , pursh or maada , in the ithes of sokar aor is the tisra sabse capped maada khili in sokar ithes piche kristine lili aor cristit rampone , appearing in 275 anthriy milane .
hamm thay namit the mahlo 's phfa sanaar khili of the saal the pahlo dho tamiams kiya pukar thay diye ( in 2001 aor 2002 ) , aor is sudhh as eke of phfa 's 125 behtan jeena khili ( as chuni by kaa ) .
dho thay inducted into the nashl sokar ghol of kitri as khoo as the alama khel ghol of kitri aor tecas khel ghol of kitri .
dho is the lakkk of go liya the lashy : a chainn 's mariao to jitna in sokar aor jivan aor appeared in the echoom virtar himat to sapna : the stori of the u.S. malaon 's sokar toli .
vashitn posti columnist maical wilbon pukra hamm , `` shaad the sabse marhan khili of the pichla 15 xalo . ''
hamm takes a kone laata .
the nayi yaak redd bulls is an amri pesher sokar toli aarat in harsion , nayi jarsi , representing the nayi yaak mahag chartel .
the toli competes in the poove smalne of prmuk ling sokar ( mls ) .
it is eke of the teen chatr clab of mls , having competed in the ling chunki isko inception .
the toli thay a founding sasy of mls ( 1996 ) , laciin raai gayi through anek naam pravatin .
the toli thay originally gyat as the nayi york/new jarsi metrostars through 1997 .
isse the 1998 ritu through the 2005 ritu , the toli thay gyat as the metrostars .
on kuch 9 , 2006 , the toli thay bechi to redd sand gmbh , agrin to the toli 's varman naam .
vey hain the tabhi asli mls mathar nahi to have jeet khoi significant trofi ( sahit nimat ritu , playoffs , aor noat pritiyo ) chunki inception .
the toli 's behatin pranamn in the mls thay the mls khap phaila in 2008 .
in the us khole khep , the metrostars phonch tinn semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , pahlo reaching unko pahlo naila in 2003 , khone kaa to the shigo aag .
on agst 26 , 2000 , the metros ' cllit mathis niyat an mls rekar by soiring pach lashy in a khel virdh the dalas barna .
kuch well-known khili kiya have niya liya the toli shaml giovanni savarese , timat hard , toni meola , tab ramos , alexi lalas , cllit mathis , jozy altidore , maical bradli , clodi reyna , aidi paap , rabrot donadoni , lothar kaa , aafoo valasy , youri djorkaeff , amado ganra , juon pablo kaa , thierry hanir , juninho pernambucano , jean gunar solli , rafal maase , aor tima kahil .
the toli raai bhii thad well-known kuch , sahit carlos queiroz , carlos alurto parreira , bura kaa , bob bradli , mo johnston , bross arana aor hans backe .
confucianism , taoism , aor buddhism hain eke , a penting in the litang sthali portraying tinn meen hans by a nadi stricem , 12th sadi , sog ravash .
estimating the cramak of badho in the sanaar , or in anek deso , is muskl due to definitional mudde as khoo as warik smasyo of enumeration .
to shoo saah , the dharm mattoo , practices , aor pahan of istt ashiya ( jau comprise the bhuut of the sanaar 's baddo by khoi mea ) praha mishri buddhism saahh anya paraon sahit confucianism , the chaizin lauk dharm , daoism , shinto , aor korri shamanism .
sabse ankura of buddhism do nahi belong to scrrnhnn congregations , or observe a definite autun of adherence aisa as lene sharn , banana it muslll to accurately anman the cramak of practitioners .
an atic chonti is the dusmin of anek nashl sarke ( praha connit ones aisa as chhin or utar korri ) to dharm generally or to buddhism specifically .
sarki netyo in yaa deso may pritio the under-reporting or non-reporting of dharm adherence , resulting in adhak yug kiya may drastically underestimate the cramak of dharm practitioners in yaa deso .
anman of the wisy baddh yankiti daura isse 350 lakho to over eke arab , laciin cletser nearer to the pahlo pigar .
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a pigar of 397 lakho .
by prmuk shaam , the sakhnn hain as follows:
( 1 ) mahana buddhism , sahit istt asyy buddhism , saah no kaam than 185 lakho adherents , aor sansht anek tamiam kiya anek ( again , depending on definitional mudde ) .
inse is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in chhin , dhasin korri , japani , taava , sanrr , aor nitan .
( 2 ) thrvad buddhism , saahh no kaam than 125 lakho adherents .
inse is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in candamaa , thaldh , laaos , shari lanka , aor barma .
( 3 ) jarva buddhism , saahh lagch 20 lakho adherents .
inse roop predominates in the vrh tibbi aor magllone regions , as khoo as in the himle .
besides the swatt deso of magol aor bhutan , aor vinnin territories bhitr kaya is abhi pushi chhin , jaran is pragat to nisht regions of roos ( e.g . kalaicam , burti ) , indiya ( e.g . ladkh , sikk ) , aor nepail ( e.g . khumbu ) .
jaran , bhii gyat as tibbi buddhism , is praha conflated saah tanrink buddhism , laciin inse is imprecise , as shingon aor anya form of istt asyy buddhism bhii abaas tantra .
at tanik 7 deso ( shari lanka , thaldh , candiya , laaos , barma , butun , aor magal ) have unambiguous baddh majorities .
depending on kasa eke calculates chaizin aor anya istt asyy adherents , inse pigar might vistar to shaml anek adhek deso .
in jod , buddhism is the raay dharm of candiya aor butaon , aor receives prominent zikr in the constitutions of thaldh aor shari lanka .
in utare indiya aor nepal , the jamin jaha buddhism thay born , the dharm severely asvec dauran the pahlo milam .
whether inse manhi thay due to the isla conquest of utare indiya , or to anya carom , remains visad .
dekhi the aleh manhi of buddhism in indiya .
jems baller hickok ( may 27 , 1837 kaa agst 2 , 1876 ) , behtar gyat as genle dheeek hickok , thay a lauk naic of the amri budha vaste .
uske koshl as a gunfighter aor skat , saah saah uske pratha as a lawman , provided the adhar liya uske kitri , halic kuch of uske reported karna hain fictionalized .
born aor utha on a farm in gramin inooicem , hickok gari vaste at aoo 18 as a bhode isse infas , pahlo working as a stagecoach dravrr , pahlo he became a lawman in the frontier territories of kansans aor nabra .
he lada liya the samnh foaj dauran the amri sewal hudd , aor gained publicity bada the hudd as a skat , marksman , karta , aor pesher juoir .
between uske law-enforcement karva aor juye , jisse easily overlapped , hickok thay shaml in anek notable shootouts .
he thay shat aor maare abki playing pokar in the nuttal & maan 's sellon in deadwood , kata territory ( abhi dhasin kata ) .
clakar 's dharna of the jigsa rover vaporizing chatan on magal .
the rover utara on magal in agst 2012 .
a mangl rover is an swalth mutr gadi jisse propels itself aar the satah of the graha mangl bada lending .
roves have anek labh over stationary landers : vey jache adhek territory , vey can be nishan to dilap chivien , vey can plale themselves in suni sthai to masam shit mahino aor vey can agrrm the gyann of kasa to perform bhoot rimot rotc gadi contol .
vahi have marhu haar kamab robotically sanhlit mangl rovs .
the jeet nodn prasalo pranh the magal pathfinder mishan aor isko abhi niskh sojourner rover .
it fihal manages the mangl khoji rover mishan 's cresiol asar rover aor niskh stiet , aor , as bhag of the mangl vigaan prasala mishan , the jigsa rover .
a vittiy aedit , or adhek accurately , an aedit of vitai kathan , is the satan of the vittiy kathan of a vidak antii , saah a dras to ecers an aedit raai .
the aedit raai is intended to provide uchat parkh , laciin nahi ners parkh , kiya the vittiy kathan hain prust fairly , in seb samri respects , and/or deya a sacha aor maila dras in accordance saah the vittiy roptoning ferm .
the purpose of an aedit is provide aor udsey swantr praksa of the vittiy kathan , jisse increases the maana aor vistan of the vittiy kathan itpid by prabhann , yaun badan upata visaa in the vittiy bayan , reduce nikkon rark aor natane reduce the lagat of punje of the preparer of the vittiy kathan .
vittiy audits hain typically performed by firms of practicing khal jau hain visha in vittiy roptoning .
the vittiy aedit is eke of anek prakh rotyi provided by hisab firms .
anek santhan separately employ or hire atric auditors , jau do nahi attest to vittiy ripatas lackin foss mukth on the atric nitran of the santhan .
baha auditors may choone to plale simit rilans on the karya of atric auditors .
auditing promotes parsa aor sota in the vittiy disclosures bana by an santhan , isli hota sansit to reduce of aisa corporations to chipat unscrupulous dealings .
internationally , the anthriy manko on auditing ( isa ) gari by the anthriy auditing aor prakh manko falak ( iaasb ) is maano as the chankrm liya aedit prakm .
lagbh seb jurisdictions aakta auditors to follow the isa or a laol vinna of the isa .
doller sikke have marhu minted in the sont raay in sunhar , candi , aor adhar matll sankan .
the pada candi doller is praha prutt liya khoi visal swath matl sikka garri by the sonk raay saahh a phans maana of eke doller , halki purists zidd kiya a doller is nahi candi aabak it contains kuch of kiya matll .
candi doller , the pahlo doller sikka smasya , yhoo minted shurt in 1794 .
sunra doller aor gold-colored doller have bhii marum utpit by the sont raay .
the sacagawea aor addhisya doller hain praha referred to as `` suhrr doller '' .
in adhunk tamiams , doller sikke have nahi marhu bhoot lercoria in the sont raay .
despite pratan by the sarki to prahr unko uppg , sabse amrie filal upag the eke doller dheeek blki than doller sikke .
in sidha aor sthrr udan lefte ( l ) barai wazan ( w ) .
in a banked farr of kaa , lifti barai dona the wazan ( l=2w ) .
the palte anboo 2g aor a doubled wazan .
the steeper the banko , the vrh the g-forces .
inse top-fuel dragster can accelerate isse shoni to in 0.86 senda .
inse is a aada twarn of 5.3 g. sont saahh the lantov g-force in the stationary mamla the pythagorean prame yields a g fors of 5.4 g .
g-force ( saah g isse gurakh ) is a pada liya accelerations laga as wazan aor measurable by accelerometers .
it is nahi a fors , prti se , lackin a fors prti kayi draman .
chunki aisa a fors is aaaas as a wazan , khoi g-force can be varnn as a `` wazan prti kayi draman '' ( dekhi the parya vishit wazan ) .
the g-force twan adhiomon as a gunk of weight-like shatiyan liya pratke kayi of an aakt 's draman , aor ( shej liya nisht elactictenne fors praaav ) is the karna of an aakt 's twarn in sandh to free-fall .
inse twarn anve by an aakt is due to the vaktor yug of non-gravitational shatiya ectiting on an aakt phri to mowa .
the accelerations kiya hain nahi utpit by gartra hain termed uchat accelerations , aor it is tabhi yaa kiya hain measured in g-force ikii .
vey karnne tanoo aor strains on saste .
cumi of yaa strains , visal g-forces may be destructive .
gravitation ectiting alon karta nahi upaj a g-force , bhii halki g-forces hain expressed in multiples of the twarn of a maank gharta .
yaun , the maank gurakh twarn at the darti 's satah produces g-force tabhi indirectly , as a pranamn of prithor to it by mechanical shatiya .
the 1 g-force on an aakt bete on the darti 's satah is caused by mechanical fors exerted in the upward disha by the maidan , keeping the aakte isse going into free-fall .
the upward fors isse the maidan ensures kiya an aakt at baaki on the darti 's satah is accelerating seps to the free-fall condition , jisse is the paath kiya the aakt hota follow jajb girna freely toward the darti 's bech .
seste anut to free-fall in an inertial trajectory antra the influence of gravitation-only , mahus no g-force .
inse is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' sharte ander a freely girna lifti girna toward the darti 's bech ( in kakm ) , or ( to shoh suntnn ) sharte ander a spacecraft in darti sasha .
yaa hain udarnn of nerakh twann ( a badle in gati ) bagar a sannn of wazan .
the anu of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is idpit , is synonymous saahh weightlessness .
in the aunsspht of gurakh filled , or in dishin at sahi kaun to unhe , uchat aor nerakh accelerations hain the vahi , aor khoi nerakh twarn jarur be utpid by a samnin g-force twarn .
an udarnn yahan is a prastr in jhri seep , in jisse saral pravatin in gati hain idtit by the injan , aor upaj g-forces on the prastr aor aatri .
an augur pakaar a lituus , the curved wand praha prutt as a pretikh of augury on roman sikke
the augur thay a pujari aor adrch in the sastir sanaar , vishar prahin romo aor etruria .
uske prmukh bumk thay to interpret the hoga of the devat by adhn the udan of pashyon : whether vey hain udte in smoh or alon , kaya noises vey meke as vey makhi , disha of udan aor kaya daluo of pashyon vey hain .
inse thay gyat as `` lene the auspices . ''
the rasm aor jalne of the augur thay contrl to khoi prmuk undertaking in roman kaa or kaa matters of hudd , comsar , aor dharm .
the roman itaara livy tanoo the matth of the augurs : `` jau kurta nahi jaan kiya inse nuagar thay sapit tabhi bada lene the auspices , kiya subk in hudd aor in salam , at gher aor vides , thay kiya tabhi bada lene the auspices ? ''
farmington phaan is an affluent jatio in southeastern mixangn .
it is the duori largest nuagar in alcold kanti in the u.S. raay of mixang .
isko yankise thay 79,740 at the 2010 yankiti .
it is bhag of the upscale northwestern axaro of mahag detr aor is bhii puotar of shar ain arbor .
farmington phaan consistently badhane as eke of the safest sharm in the sont raay , as khoo as in the raay of mixangan .
in 2010 , the chartel crem as the 30th safest nuagar in amrraa .
halki the dho sharmo have prath sevan aor pata , farmington aor farmington phaan hain praha vichar of as the vahi jatio .
shuvien of the jation shaml a recently swar shar , boutiques , a ventejed seema , numerous rastro , exotic car dealerships , wart galii , aor palcic paak sahit virta paak .
vahi hain anek ataic sait sahit the longacre haas aor the rajal warner mansion .
dano sharmo hain parosa by farmington palcic sulcoon .
farmington phaan serves as a prmuk caaar bech liya the vrh detr chartel .
present-day chhap of a latt kansyan aoo muhrr
casa muhr ( mentric ) of kaa isse 1570
a muhrr is a antar liya banana an chhap in mamo , mitti , pepar , or kuch anya medi , sahit an embossment on pepar , aor is bhii the chhap yaun bana .
the asli purpose thay to authenticate a dastav , a wrapper liya eke aisa as a adhun lifa , or the kaar of a saaaak or paic pakaar valuables or anya seste .
the sealing prakm is essentially kiya of a sache , saah the philal hitrr represented on the antar liya banana the chhap by a mirror-image denain , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) rahta or intaglio .
the seal-making antar is bhii referred to as the muhrr mentric or die ; the imprint it creates as the muhrr chhap ( or , adhek rarely , the sealing ) .
if the chhap is bana purely as a rahta resulting isse the vrh dawao on the pepar jaha the unchi bhag of the mentric tach , the muhrr is gyat as a shusk muhr ; in seb anya mamle a drav or liquified media ( aisa as shyi or mamo ) is prutt , praha in another ranga than the pepar .
liya vidak udsey , the prahaa of a muhr may be vistar to shaml barr stamps , or likne nirt sabd ( `` muhrr '' or `` l.s . `` ) .
in the sont raay , the sabd `` muhrr '' is sometimes abnit to a facsimile of the muhr denain ( in marom or ranga ) , jisse may be prutt in a kismo of contexts sahit architectural jamte , on dwar , or on adhak letterheads .
yaun , liya udarnn , the gree muhr of the sont raay , among anya upag , appears on the rivar of the one-dollar dheeek ; aor anek of the seals of the u.S. raay appear on unko sandhi raay dwa .
in uoripy , halic coats of bahe aor heraldic beej may khoo visha in aisa contexts as khoo as on seals , the muhr denain in isko entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
the padhi of seals is gyat as sigillography or sphragistics .
groundhog dena ( penalcai jarni : grundsaudaag , murmeltiertag ) is a dena manaye on farr 2 .
according to loukt , if it is cloudy jajb a groundhog emerges isse isko burrow on inse dena , tab wastn hoga aiye jaldi ; if it is suni , the groundhog hoga maano dekhi isko chaya aor ritt waps into isko burrow , aor the shit masam hoga continue liya chaa adhek sapath .
adhuok kastom of the aaak involve jasna jaha jaldi morning tahr hain aagt to dekhe the groundhog ubrte isse isko burrow .
in southeastern penalaiiva , groundhog lodges ( grundsow lodges ) celebrate the aaak saah fersommlinge , sohll karm in jisse khana is parosa , bhano hain bana , aor eke or adhek g'spiel ( plays or skits ) hain performed liya entertainment .
the penalaiaa jarni dialect is the tabhi bhasa bula at the vent , aor those jau bolo angrij ada a dand , praha in the roop of a nikle , dime , or cwar prti sabd bula , saah the dhan put into a catro in the bech of the talac .
the largest groundhog dena jasna is aagt in punxsutawney , penalcav .
groundhog dena , already a widely pahan aor lercoria paraa , prapt faili dhaan as a pranamn of the 1993 filli groundhog dena , jisse thay niyat in punxsutawney , pa ( halki filma primarily in wudtaki , il ) aor portrayed punxsutawney phila .
unchi reus hitrr of tampa khadi pradesh
the tampa khadi chartel raai a ardr upphsn alou ( koppen cfa ) , saah garma aor ardr gresh saah baar thunderstorms aor drier sardiyon saah jamne temperatures occurring pratok kaa xalo .
the chartel anboov a significant garman gila ritu , as nearly two-thirds of the salan varhh japlat in the mahino of juon through sitabar .
the chartel is sadhh by the sont raay viga of krshi ( uisde ) as hona in hardiness mandl 10 , jisse is prachy the utare seema of jaha narrila haliian aor royal haeliyt can be grown .
highs praha daura between 65 aor 95 kaa ( 18 aor 35 kaa ) saal galar .
halic gyat liya hot greesh , tampa 's adhak unchi raai never phonch 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the nuagar 's all-time rekar tapan is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
st. pirt 's all-time rakar unchi is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
pinellas kanti suth on a prawi between tampa khadi aor the galf of masko , aor much of the nuagar of tampa suth on a choti prawi jutting aut into tampa khadi .
inse nikta to visal laase of jala dano narmphtion temperatures aor introduces visal amounts of arda into the mahul .
in samay , the laol smando farthest inse the coast have larger tapan siemo , dano dauran a singl dena aor throughout the seean of the saal .
a arekh of the elarctitinn nark , prish vinnin gune aar the daura of barbant aor wavelengths
the elacticgen nark is the daura of seb sansit barbant of lerctinin vikrinn .
the `` elactictenne nark '' of an aakt raai a alag arth , aor is bajay the characteristic vitran of elarctitinn vikrinn utri or aafshot by kiya particular aakt .
the lerctinen nark extends isse niche the kaam barbant prutt liya adhunk redior sanchar to gama vikrinn at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) smapt , thereby covering wavelengths isse hazaro of cllorter bas to a binnn of the akar of an ano .
the seema liya long wavelengths is the akar of the brand itself , abki it is vichar kiya the choti wavelength seema is in the vicinity of the plaak lambai , hali in principle the nark is annta aor nirtar .
sabse bhag of the elactictenne nark hain prutt in vigaan liya spectroscopic aor anya probing interactions , as trrke to padha aor characterize paath .
in jod , vikrinn isse vinnin bhag of the nark raai mila anek anya upag liya sanchar aor nirman ( dekhi elarctitinn vikrinn liya adhek arpon ) .
lende
frichin delano rujvelt ( or ; janri 30 , 1882 kaa apryl 12 , 1945 ) , bhii gyat by uske adsar , fdr , thay the 32nd addhs of the sont raay ( kaa ) aor a contrl pigar in sanaar karm dauran the mid-20th sadi , agri the sont raay dauran a samay of wisy arthec vasad aor kool hudd .
a prabpll nata of the lactic parti aor the tabhi amri addhs nicv to adhek than dho sharte , he nirm a nayi sade ganbhann kiya realigned amri rajantie bada 1932 , as uske rehlul netyo parah amri udatad liya the madhy tisra of the 20th sadi .
saah the bouncy lercoria sog `` prans deno hain yahan again `` as uske aiaan thema , fdr prrat lalima rapblonn harbat huoar in nambar 1932 , at the ghrri of the gree vasad .
sacriao by uske neeji veya over poloy , fdr 's unfailing ashad aor sacrtaor contributed to a navrkar of the nashl spiet .
he worked closely saah angoe prahan mantri vintan charchl aor sovet samay cchrv josser stalin in agri the allies virdh jarni aor japani in sanaar hudd ii , aor restoring samdhi to the swash 's arvasha .
in uske pahlo sho deno in daftar , jisse began kuch 4 , 1933 , rujvelt patraan prmuk vidan aor gari a profusion of kariila adesh kiya instituted the nayi sade kaa kismo of karm designed to upaj rahta ( sarki karya liya the baraar ) , rakver ( arthec vikas ) , aor sudhar ( through vinnim of waale goli , banko aor prahan ) .
the arvasha improved rapidly isse 1933 to 1937 , lackin tab relapsed into a gahne mandi .
the bipartisan rudhid ganbhann kiya formed in 1937 prevented uske paaking the pram adalt or gujar khoi considerable vidan ; it abolished anek of the rahta karm jajb bargii diminished dauran sanaar hudd ii .
sabse of the regulations on caaar you ended prachy kaa , magar liya the vinnim of waale goli by the proti aor ecchang aag , jisse sthil exists .
saahh saahh anek choti karm , prmuk surviving karm shaml the sanhiyn jama bima nigm , jisse thay nirm in 1933 , aor sohll surkha , jisse corgens passed in 1935 .
as sanaar hudd ii loomed bada 1938 , saah the japani arman of chhin aor the aktama of naji jarni , fdr diya madar raaick aor vittiy support to chhin aor gree bretten , abki baaki officially nturl .
uske lashy thay to meke amrraa the `` arsel of laktar `` jisse hota salai munitions to the allies .
in kuch 1941 , rujvelt , saahh congressional swieti , provided lend-lease shata to the deso lada virdhu naji jarmin saah bretten .
saahh bhoot madar nashl support , he bana hudd on japani aor jarmin bada the japani arman on parla haarb on dismar 7 , 1941 , colling it a `` tithi jisse hoga seav in infamy `` .
he prvis the mobilization of the u.S. araaha to support the aladi hudd pratan .
as an crisyol seyn nata , rujtvel implemented an overall hudd ranti on dho fronts kiya ended in the siktt of the assh shatiya aor the vikas of the sanaar 's pahlo ano bamari .
in 1942 rujvelt ordered the internment of 100,000 japani amri naroim .
bargii dropped to 2 % , rahta karm largely ended , aor the addoii arvasha grew rapidly to nayi hattas as lakho of logo sthrn to nayi karya in hudd centers , aor 16 lakho meen aor 300,000 mahlo yhoo drafted or volunteered liya sayn sewa .
rujvelt chrv the amri raaatic saaki nahi tabhi dauran the barah xalo of uske prissi , lackin bhii liya saako afterward .
he orchestrated the realignment of mataa kiya nirm the paavo parti praliy .
fdr 's nayi sade ganbhann sont madrur samnh , biga nuagar mashen , swath ethnics , afri amrie aor gramin swath southerners .
he bhii baawa the bada sushi of the sonte rashar aor bretton vuds .
rujvett is consistently reated by vedo as eke of the shers tinn u.S. rastyon , saah saahh abrah lincoln aor zarg vashitnn .
a udar dokrom , rujvelt parah uske charick stith as `` a choti bayn of bech . ''
a sont kamit is a pada in rajantie kiya is prutt to refer to a kamti bana up of saxy of dano kasho of a bicameral vidan .
in anya contexts , it refers to a kamti saahh saany isse adhek than eke santhan .
the vinnim of vastiv in the sont raay is nahi among the enumerated shatiya of the sanhhy sarki ; antra the daswa amendment to the sont raay swanhann , it is isle exclusively the doman of the raay to prrti , prohibit , or varna vinit wyniik sex , magar insofar as corgens may vinit it as bhag of antrij comsar saah kann jaise the maan adhinn .
in sabse raay , vasti is maano a misdemeanor in the shari of palcie anuom aphroo , a aphroo kiya disrupts the anurm of a jatio .
it thay at eke samay maano to be a vagrancy aphroo .
filal , nafa is the tabhi raay to allow vashl vastiv , the sharte of jisse hain stipulated in the nawada sandh statutes .
tabhi 8 kanti fihla contain crisyol brothels .
seb form of vastiv hain illegal in claak kanti ( jisse contains the lalaa kaa mahag chartel ) , washoe kanti ( jisse contains reno ) , karsan nuagar , dgals kanti , aor lincoln kanti .
the anya kanti theoretically allow vashl vastiv , lackin kuch of yaa kanti filal have no crisyol brothels .
goli vastiv , `` pandering , '' aor jeena bandh of the proceeds of a vash remain illegal antra nafa vidhi , as elsewhere in the desh .
as saah anya deso , vasti in the sont raay can be viat into tinn waak shari : goli vastiv , vashl vastiv , aor aroosann vastiv .
the nashl dwar of the sont raay of amriaa , praha base referred to as the amri dwar , consists of tarh barar aada dharni of redd ( shers aor niche ) prati saah swath , saah a bloo aatar in the katan ( referred to specifically as the `` samnh '' ) bearing paaas choti , swath , five-pointed sitaom arranged in nano faster aada pakti of chaa sitroo ( shers aor niche ) pratia saah pakti of pach sitaom .
the 50 sitroo on the dwar represent the 50 raay of the sont raay of amriaa aor the 13 dharnn represent the tarh angoe colonies kiya hogit swatta isse the kidam of gree bretten aor became the pahlo raay in the samnh .
nicknames liya the dwar shaml the `` sitaoo aor dharnn '' , `` budha mahima `` , aor `` the star-spangled dwa . ''
indiya is a sanhiyn samnh of raay comprising twenty-eight raay aor saat samnh territories .
the raay aor territories hain further subdivided into giele aor so on .
congressional giele liya the 113th sont raay corgens
2010 yankise change:
