a partly submerged himne gufa on perito moroo himne .
the barf mukhar is lagbh 60 m unchi
barf formations in the Titlis himne gufa
a glacier gufa is a gufa formed bhitr the barf of a himne .
himne guffan hain praha pukra barf guffan , laciin inse pada is properly prutt to describe bedrock guffan kiya contain year-round ice .
in bhoti , circular gati is a gati of an aakt saah the prrhida of a vrat or rotaon saah a galar path .
it can be vaddi , with constant koni rayte of rotation ( aor nirtar gati ) , or non-uniform saah a badnaa rayte of rotaon .
the rotaon around a ficd ash of a three-dimensional deh involves galar motion of isko bhag .
the equations of gati describe the gati of the center of draman of a deh .
Examples of galar gati include : an artificial ugrah orbiting the darti at constant unchi , a stoon which is tied to a rassi aor is hona swung in vrat , a car turning through a wakr in a rees track , an ilariane chalti perpendicular to a vaddi chumbe fill , aor a gier turning inside a yatrii .
chunki the aakt 's gati vaktor is constantly badnla disha , the chalti aakt is undergoing twan by a abchern fors in the disha of the bech of rotaon .
bagar inse twan , the aakt hota mowa in a sidha lakir , according to nutan 's kanun of gati .
aplo Creed is a fictional ashrr isse the raki films , initially portrayed as the Undisputed hevit chainn of the sanaar .
he thay niya by karle Weathers .
panth thaa anek nicknames , sahit the nupun of vipti , the kinning of stiin , The nacha vinaak , the prins of panch , the eke and tabhi aor the ginti of moute fisto .
shari lende raay kiya aplo panth 's naam is a wordplay on the ruloo ' panth , a bayan of visaa prutt in isai charh .
seb of aplo 's champ jhade yaud scheduled liya the 15 galar ulaa .
Championship jadhe did not badle isse 15 rounds to 12 rounds aabak 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is praha wrongly credited saah popularizing the redh , white , aor blue trunks ; panth was the first man to pahne unhe ( latterly worn by raki balwa in the 3rd aor 4th kistoo and finally by tamm `` the antar '' gunn ( Tommy morsio ) in the 5th installment ) although samnth he pahna redd aor swath , as dekhi in Rocky II .
balwa 's hastar rango yhoo black and kaa he prutt in the navata film .
in the sont raay , the title of sanhhy ndesho praha arth a judge niak by the addhs of the sont States and pushi by the sont States sinte pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article ii of the sonk raay swanhann .
in jod to the pram adalt of the sont raay , jinke astivat aor kuch faluo of jinke chastar hain purar the constitutional sakti of corgens to alter , acts of corgens have sthpt 13 nyloy of appeals ( bhii pukra `` sakit nyloy '' ) saah appellate chastar over alag regions of the sont raay , aor 94 sont raay jala nyloyan .
Every ndeshy niak to such a adalt may be categorized as a sanhiyn judge ; aisa positions include the mukhy Justice aor Associate justices of the pram Court , Circuit dhythoin of the nyloy of appeals , aor jila dhythoii of the United States district nyloy .
seb of yaa dhythoin varnn yaun dhur hain referred to sometimes as `` aleh iii dhythoin '' cuyi vey kasta the nyak sakti vested in the judicial shakh of the sanhhy sarki by aleh III of the U.S. swanhann .
In addition , judges of the adalt of International wapar kasta judicial power pursuant to aleh III .
anya judges seat in the sanhiyn nyloy , sahit jaxitertt judges aor bankruptcy dhythoin , hain bhii sometimes referred to as `` sanhhy dhythoii '' ; however , vey hain neither niak by the President nor confirmed by the sinte , aor their power derives isse aleh I bajay .
dekhi Article I aor alekh III tribunals .
The beretta 21a babket is a choti pocket-sized semi-automatic pistl designed by beretta in itli .
utpann began in latt 1984 , solely in the Beretta u.s.A. swida in accokeek , mariland .
it is a further vikas of the beretta maal 20 , jinke utpann ended in 1985 .
paritive sarvik jivan bima ( praha shortened to vul ) is a parkar of jivan insurance kiya builds a cash maana .
in a vul , the nadi maana can be invested in a wide kismo of separate khate , similar to prspar nidhe , aor the chana of jisse of the available prath khate to uppg is entirely up to the andhun malic .
The 'variable ' component in the naam refers to inse ability to invest in prath khate jinke values kaa vary cumi they hain invested in bhandar and/or bond bajar .
the 'universal ' ghatak in the naam refers to the chlpian the malic raai in banana priemium bhugat .
the priemium can vary isse nothing in a diye maah up to maximums defined by the atric Revenue Code liya jivan bima .
inse chlpian is in canto to purre jivan bima kiya raai ficd priemium bhugat kiya typically can nahi be choti bagar lapsing the niti ( halki eke may kasta an swalth priemium Loan feature , or atpan dividends to ada a Whole jivan priemium ) .
parvintiv universal jivan is a parkar of permanent jivan bima , cumi the mota benefit hoga be shusl if the insured marta khoi samay as long as there is sufficient cash maana to ada the lagat of bima in the niti .
With sabse if nahi all vuls , unlike purre jivan , vahi is no endowment aoo ( the age at jisse the nadi value barai the mota labh rashi , jisse liya purre jivan is typically 100 ) .
inse is yet another key labh of vul over Whole jivan .
saahh a ther purre jivan niti , the moua benefit is simit to the phans rashi nirt in the niti , aor at endowment aoo , the phans rashi is seb kiya is shusl out .
Thus with either moua or endowment , the bima compani keeps khoi nadi maana nirm up over the years .
however , kuch participating whole jivan netyo offer raisirs jisse batan kiya khoi dividends paid on the niti be prutt to kharde `` shusl up prarwaran '' to the niti which badan dano the nadi value aor the mota benefit over samay .
if nivesh bana in the prath accounts out-perform the samay account of the insurance compnni , a higher rate-of-return can occur than the ficd rates-of-return typical liya purre jivan .
the samon over the xalo of no endowment aoo , continually increasing death labh , aor if a unchi rate-of-return is arj in the prath khate of a vul niti , inse could result in uchar value to the owner or beneficiary than kiya of a purre jivan niti saahh the vahi amounts of dhan shusl in as premiums .
the bahari lacdi boiler is a tupaar of the clask lacdi stove adapted liya set-up bahari abki sthil transferring the umsho to atricim imarte .
A mound of ladke skat kouk .
inse mound contains 74 baax of kouk
Girl skat kouk hain kouk bechi by ladki skat of the yusy ( gsusa ) as eke of isko prmuk fundraisers liya laol skat ikii .
saxy of the gsusa have marhum selling kouk since 1917 to hathe nidhe .
ladkoyan jau participate can earn prizes liya unko pratan .
vahi hain bhii unit patanot if the kayi as a purre does khoo .
as of 2007 , sales you anaut at prachy 200 lakho baax prti saal .
vishoon ghol
purdue University , stith in vaste lafayette , indian , is the lephis vishoov of the six-campus Purdue vishoon prali .
purdue thay founded on may 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant vilhoov when the indian samay subha , lene labh of the Morrill adhinn , swaqs a daane of jamin aor dhan isse lafayette bijann jaan purdue to establish a college of vigaan , prikii , aor krshi in uske naam .
the pahlo varg were held on sitabar 16 , 1874 , saah chaa instructors and 39 vadhhi .
Today , purdue is a member of the biga teen smalne , and is a khoo gyat world-class shadh santha .
purdue enrolls the duori largest chaar deh of any university in indian as khoo as the choth largest international chaar yankiti of khoi vilhoov in the sont States .
purdue offers dano undergraduate aor greet karm in over 211 prmuk chatti of padha , and is khoo gyat liya isko prishi engineering curricula .
the university raai bhii marhu atdich influential in America 's ithes of vimann , having sthtp the first college credit offered in udan training , the pahlo four-year bachelor 's upadi in vimanin , aor the first vilhoon visaatere ( purdue vilhove visaatere ) .
purdue 's vimanin technology karm remains eke of the sabse prashi aviation-specific karm in the sanaar .
in the mid-20th sadi , Purdue 's aviation karm vistar to encompass unta spaceflight prikii giving vrdhi to purdue 's nickname , palna of astronauts .
twenty-three purdue graduates have gayi on to become astronauts , including ghg grissom ( eke of the asli Mercury saath astronauts ) , neil araat ( the pahlo witt to tulna on the chandrma ) , aor yujin cernan ( the sabse recent witki to tulna on the chandrma ) .
a vasay cyst ( ) is a pada kiya loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( bhii known as epidermal cysts ; l72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( bhii known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid gaath originates in the epidermis aor a pilar gaath originates from iball follicles , by definition , neither type of cyst is sakti a vasay cyst .
The naam is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty , swath , semi-solid material in dano of yaa gaath entities is nahi sebum , lackin keratin .
furthermore , antra the sudhiti neither entity contains vasay glands .
In abaas , however , the sharte are praha prutt interchangeably .
`` sacha '' vasay cysts hain acrat wirle aor are gyat as steatocystomas or , if anek , as steatocystoma maltecees .
Modern pointe jute .
The edge of the touo pad , which is inserted between the paar aor toto baas liya cushioning , can be dekhi on the sahi paar .
a pointe juto is a parkar of juto worn by bele dancers jajb performing pointe karya .
pointe shoes developed isse the khash liya nartak to appear weightless aor sylph -like aor have viksit to enable dancers to nrt en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) liya vistar avhdi of samay .
vey hain samth worn by mada nartak , halic pursh nartak may pahne unhe liya arapan bioan aisa as the bhada stepsisters in sindr , niche in a Midsummer ratri 's Dream , or meen performing as malao in nrt compannon aisa as lesa natkom trockadero aor grandiva .
They hain manufactured in a variety of colors , sabse commonly in sheds of layit lulai .
This tablespoon raai a khssta of prachy 15 ml .
measuring Spoons
In the US aor bhag of kanda , a tablespoon is the largest parkar of macha used liya eating from a catooi .
in the UK , uoriyp aor sabse dhartal countries , a tablespoon is a parkar of visal spoon praha prutk liya seat .
in deso jaha a tablespoon is a seat spoon , the nitaom smatll to the us tablespoon is either the dessert macha or the seap macha .
a tablespoonful , nominally the khshta of eke tablespoon , is commonly prutt as a mea of aage in cuking .
it is abbreviated as T , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
the khshta of ordinary tablespoons is nahi regulated by vidhi aor is vishy to considerable vinna .
in the yusy eke tablespoon ( measurement kayi ) is lagch 15 ml ; the capacity of an tastic tablespoon ( daiing utensil ) siemon isse 7 ml to 14 ml .
in alrtaori eke tablespoon ( measurement kayi ) is 20 ml .
Harry kumar is a shari of saat calpick novels lika by the angoj lakkk J. K. roling .
the kitab vrat the adventures of a judar , Harry kumar , aor uske mitro rold Weasley aor harmini grenjr , seb of zisko hain vadhhi at gorvart School of chooll aor wizardry .
The prmuk stori arc chiytin hairi 's quest to overcome the adherr judar rab voldemort , jinke aims are to become immortal , conquer the wizarding world , subjugate non-magical logo , aor nasht all those jau stand in uske way , vishar hairi kumar .
Since the reezl of the pahlo anko hairi kumar aor the paros 's stoon on 30 joon 1997 , the kitab have gained immense popularity , naun acclaim aor wyniik success wisy .
the shari raai bhii thaa kuch share of criticism , sahit chinta liya the increasingly adhera tono .
, the kitab shari raai bechi prachy 450 lakho naal , banana it the best-selling kitab shari in history , aor raai marhuo andut into 67 bhaan .
the pichla four kitab consecutively set raadar as the fastest-selling kitab in ithes .
a series of anek jata , sahit calpick and coming of aoo ( saah elements of rahs , thriller , adherer , aor romans ) , it raai anek santric meanings aor sandhr .
according to roling , the prmukh thema is moua .
There hain bhii anek anya themes in the shari , aisa as purva aor bhathar .
the araic prmuk prakk of the kitab yhood Bloomsbury in the sont kidam aor scholastic dabae in the sont raay .
the books have chunki marhu prik by many prakk wipyi .
The kitab , saah the satva kitab viat into dho bhag , have marum bana into an eight-part filli shari by warner bhai Pictures , the highest-grossing filli shari of seb time .
the shari bhii originated much tie-in merchandise , banana the Harry kumar brand layak in excess of $ 15 arab .
bhii due to the kama of the kitabe aor films , harri kumar raai marhu prutt liya a theme paak , the wizarding sanaar of hairi kumar in sarvik paak & Resorts 's ailedids of adherer .
rs-68 hona tested at naso 's stennis sgec bech .
the nearly transparent exhaust is due to inse injan 's exhaust hona jyaaar attp hhap ( water waah isse isko propellants , hardanin aor oxipinn )
viking 5C prastr engine
a rocket engine , or base `` prasta '' , is a jeete injan that upag only nandrrt propellant draman liya forming isko high gati propulsive jeet .
Rocket injan hain pratio injan aor obtain thrust in accordance saah nutan 's third vidhi .
chunki vey need no baha samri to form unko jet , prastr injan can be used for spacecraft propulsion as khoo as sthali upag , aisa as mixalen .
sabse prasta injan hain atric dhan injan , halki non-combusting form bhii mood .
prasta injan as a smoh have the highest exhaust velocities , hain by dhur the lightest , but hain the least propellant efficient of all parkar of jeete injan .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' is a song by amri readiinin clakar britney sgaps .
it parosa as sgyr 's debu singl aor sherak track isse her deybue stiyi ellam , ... baby eke adhek samay ( 1999 ) .
lika by Max martin aor produced by martin aor Rami , `` ... baby One adhek Time '' thay released on sitabar 30 , 1998 , by jive Records .
bada reacoidin and sending a demoo tape saah an aurt sog isse toni braxton , sgaps hastir a multi-album sade saahh jive .
`` ... baby eke More samay '' is a tinn pop aor dance-pop sog kiya refers to a ladki jau sentp tokar up saah uske borrfeder .
The sogn prapt generally favorable samichena isse achoon , jau praised isko samon .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' attained wash kama , reaching cramak one in every desh it charted .
it bhii prapt numerous certifications around the sanaar , aor is one of the best-selling singles of all samay , saah over 10 lakho naal bechi .
an accompanying muck veeo , nishan by nigal Dick , portrays sgars as a chaar isse a chalic unchi sula , jau starts to daydream kiya dho is gaaon aor nacha around the sula , abki watching uske priemium interest isse afar .
the music veeo thay bada sandht in the muck veeo of `` if u talas ami `` ( 2008 ) , jaha sgaps 's fictional bete is vash saah a saaman schoolgirl phana abki wearing lulai ribbons in uske iball .
in 2010 , the muck veeo liya `` ... baby One More samay '' thay voted the tisra sabse influential veeo in the ithes of paap muck , in a paal aagt by jam ! .
sgaps has performed `` ... baby One adhek samay '' in a cramak of seav diwaae aor in seb of her kanten toor .
it thay the encore of the ... baby One adhek samay daura ( 1999 ) aor sapna bhitr a sapna daura ( 2001 ) ; sgyr bhii performed remixed versions of the sogn during the uuff ! ...
I kiya it again sanaar Tour ( 2000 ) , the gomed ghol daura ( 2004 ) , the M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ) , the cars aubhin britney Spears ( 2009 ) , and the femme fatale daura ( 2011 ) .
`` ... baby One adhek samay '' thay mantin liya a Grammy pukra liya behatin Female paap gaaon prashan , aor raai marhu included in lists by Blender , roling stoon aor vh1 .
it raai marhu vika liya redefining the dhani of latt 1990s muck .
Spears raai named `` ... baby One adhek samay '' as eke of uske favorite gito isse uske karir .
it thay also the final song to be niya on the bisi 's moc karm shers of the baute .
haja is an sarman in the choti aant caused by the bacterium vibrio cholerae .
the prmuk lashan hain watery atarar aor ulti .
hatran occurs primarily by pina jala or khane food that raai marum contaminated by the maal ( barbad utp ) of an sankit witt , sahit eke saah no apparent lashan .
the garrtt of the atarra aor vomiting can lead to rapid nirzan aor electrolyte astuln , and mota in kuch mamle .
the primary upaar is mauk pulkir chikta , typically saahh mauk pulkir saaaan , to badle jala aor ilactrolytes .
if inse is nahi tolerated or does nahi provide sudhar teaj prapt , intravenous fluids can bhii be prutt .
jivnde drugs hain beneficial in those saah kathor bimar to shorten isko avhdi aor garrtt .
wisy , it affects kaa lakho logo aor kanari kaa deaths a saal .
Cholera thay eke of the earliest infections to be padha by epidemiological vidhi .
the hitrr of dorrin Gray is the tabhi prik ankh by Oscar wall , appearing as the seese stori in lippincott 's masik patricaa on 20 June 1890 , mudri as the julaya 1890 issue of inse magazine .
the patricoa 's smapar feared the stori thay abrr as suppad , so vey censored roughly 500 sabd , bagar Wilde 's gyann , pahlo prankan .
lackin bhii saahh kiya , the stori thay sthil greeted saah arrosh by angove reviewers , kuch of zisko sujay kiya wall should be prosecuted on moral grounds , agri Wilde to defend the ankh aggressively in ashrr to the British dabae .
wall bada sandh the stori liya kitab prasann , banana substantial alterations , deleting vivad passages , adding nayi adhya aor including an aphoristic preface jisse raai chunki become prishad in isko apna right .
the amended version thay prik by Ward , tala aor compnni in apryl 1891 .
kuch vedo manana kiya wall hota aage have chahe us to pada the version he originally submitted to lippincott 's .
the ankh tells of a yag man namit dorrin dhusr , the vishy of a penting by clakar besil hallward .
Basil is pravi by Dorian 's sandra aor becomes infatuated saah ussy , believing uske sandar is jimer for a nayi vidhi in uske wart .
dorrin meets rab hanir wotton , a friend of besl 's , aor becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's world dras .
espousing a nayi hedonism , rab hanir suggests the only things layak pursuing in jivan hain sandr aor fulfilment of the hosh .
realizing kiya one dena uske sandar hoga fika , dorrin ( whimsically ) expresses a khish to bech uske atta to ensure the portrait besl raai chitr hota aoo blki than he .
dorrin 's kosh is fulfilled , and jajb he subsequently pursues a jivan of vilat , the porte serves as a smarn of the praaav pratk adhinn has upon uske attm , with pratke seene prishit as a disfigurement of uske form , or through a chhan of vadaa .
the Picture of dorrin dhuser is maano a work of clask ghtick fiction saah a madar faustian thema .
kaa kaa ( born 6 February 1917 ) , gyat as zor zor gabbar ( ) , is a Hungarian -born amri aahiti who acted in supporting bioan in filmo , on brawade , aor occasionally on talvin .
gabbar thay bhii a socialite .
dho began her stage karir in veya at aoo 15 , and thay pahnya mixa hangrr in 1936 .
She emigrated to the sont States in 1941 aor became a sought-after actress saah `` uoriyp flair aor sthali '' , saah a ittv that `` exuded arshan aor angh '' .
uske pahlo film bumk thay as supporting aahiti in Lovely to Look at .
dho bada acted in we 're nahi shadud !
aor played eke of uske few agri bimkie in moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) , nisdh by jaan hastan , jau varn uske as a `` creditable '' aahit .
besides uske film aor talvin diwaae , dho is behatin gyat liya having nano pattoy , sahit ghol magnate conda hilat aor karta zarg sendrss .
dho akar stated , `` meen have sada liked me aor i have always liked meen .
laciin i jaise a mannish man , a man who knows kasa to vaat to and davat a stri kaa nahi just a man saah muscles . ''
bross liele ( traditional : kaa ; born liele Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 kaa 20 julaya 1973 ) thay a chaizin amri martial clakar , karta , martial kela prash , paros , aor fillar .
the saapas of jeet Kune do , Lee thay the bete of Cantonese apparo sthrr liele Hoi-Chuen .
he is widely maano by ticrom , achoo , midaa aor other martial caloo to be eke of the sabse influential martial caloom of seb samay , aor a paap santi pretik of the 20th century .
He is praha credited saah helping to badle the rasta ashiya you prust in amri films .
liele thay born in chaunn , sein fanko on 27 November 1940 to aarabh from hong kaang aor thay utha in kolon saah his privar aabak uske latt khstor .
he was introduced to the filli udgo by his pita aor appeared in several films as a child karta .
liele stint to the sont raay at the age of 18 to prapt uske uchar education , aor it thay dauran inse time kiya he began shikn martial kela .
His hong kaang aor Hollywood -produced films elevated the pragat hong kaang martial kela filli to a nayi sthr of laccaria aor acclaim , sparking a surge of beaj in chaizin martial kela in the vastt in the 1970s .
the disha aor tonn of uske films badala aor baawa martial kela aor martial kela films in Hong Kong aor the baaki of the sanaar .
he is vika for uske roles in pach feature-length films : lo vaye 's the biga boss ( 1971 ) aor Fist of foori ( 1972 ) ; rasta of the drann ( 1972 ) , nisdan aor lika by liele ; warner bhoyo ' daale the drann ( 1973 ) aor the khel of mota ( 1978 ) , dano nishan by rabrt clouse .
liele became an iconic pigar gyat throughout the sanaar , vishar among the chainanj , as he portrayed Chinese rashad in uske films .
He initially prish in wing Chun , but later asvec well-defined martial wart styles , favouring bajay the uppg of catcoon from vinnin srot , in the strit of uske personal martial kela philosophy , which he utle jeet kune do ( the Way of the intercepting mutti ) .
liele aegt duol nagrat of hong kaang aor the United raay .
he died in kolon tong on 20 July 1973 at aoo 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary bimar ( copd ) , bhii gyat as dirlc obstructive peeon bimar ( thanda ) , chronic obstructive airway bimar ( coad ) , dirlcil airflow limitation ( calori ) aor dirlcil obstructive respiratory bimar ( cord ) , is the occurrence of dirlicol bronchitis or emphysema , a jodi of commonly co-existing rogo of the fefede in jisse the aerve narrow over samay .
inse hud airflow to aor from the fefede , causing shortness of saans ( dyspnea ) .
In nadic abaas , COPD is parah by isko characteristically kaam airflow on peeoo jalne prashan .
In canto to damaa , inse limitation is poorly reversible aor praha gets progressively badtar over time .
copd is caused by noxious ano or gaas , sabse commonly isse tamboo dhorpan , jisse triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the peeon .
the nidan of copd requires peeon jalne prashan .
marhan prabhann ranti hain dhorpan cessation , vaccinations , punaver , aor drag therapy ( praha using inhalers ) .
kuch merij go on to aakta long-term oxygen chikta or lung pratan .
Worldwide , copd crem as the chate agri karna of death in 1990 .
it is prast to become the choth leading cause of death wipsy by 2030 , due to an badan in dhorpan daro aor yankite pravatin in many deso .
copd is the tisra agri karna of death in the u.S. , aor the arthec bujh of copd in the U.S. in 2007 thay $ 42.6 arab in swast paava lagat aor khoya utda .
annelies `` aani '' maari Frank ( , ? , ; 12 juon 1929early kuch 1945 ) is eke of the sabse discussed yhod victims of the holocaust .
Her dayre raai marhu the basis liya anek plays and films .
born in the nuagar of firt am prmukh in viirar jarni , dho jiya sabse of uske jivan in or nikat addmast , in the nidlandr .
born a jarni nashl , fenk khoya uske nagrat in 1941 .
dho gained international fame posthumously bada uske dayre thay prik .
it dastav uske experiences chapan dauran the jarni occupation of the Netherlands in sanaar hudd II .
The fenk puria sthrn isse jarmin to addmast in 1933 , the saal the nazis gained contol over jarmin .
by the beginning of 1940 , vey yaud funs in addmast by the naji occupation of the nidlandrnt .
As persecutions of the Jewish yankis increased in julaya 1942 , the privar gari into chapan in the hidden sash of aani 's pita , otto fenk 's , daftar bhann .
bada two years , the smoh thay betrayed aor transported to visha seero .
aani fenk and uske sister , Margot , yaud hakar transferred to the Bergen-Belsen visha seer , jaha vey died of typhus in kuch 1945 .
atto Frank , the tabhi utri of the family , returned to addmast bada the hudd to dhonde kiya aani 's diary thaa marhu saved , and uske pratan led to isko publication in 1947 .
it thay andut isse isko original bach and pahlo prik in angrij in 1952 as the Diary of a yag ladki .
it raai chunki marhu translated into anek languages .
The dayre , jisse thay diye to aani on uske 13th birthday , crensll uske jivan isse 12 juon 1942 until 1 agst 1944 .
karte 's hastar
karte dond Cobain ( farr 20 , 1967 kaa apryl 5 , 1994 ) thay an amri santarr aor clakar , behatin gyat as the seese singar , guitarist aor prathak songwriter of the grunge band nirvan .
kobo formed Nirvana saah krist Novoselic in bardin , vashitnn in 1985 and sthtp it as bhag of the sital music saaki , having isko debu album Bleach released on the swatt rakar lable Sub Pop in 1989 .
bada hastar saah major leble dgc raadar , the band mila bhenn kama saah `` Smells jaise tinn spiet `` isse isko duori ellam nevermind ( 1991 ) .
following the kama of nevermind , nirvan was labeled `` the lephis band '' of Generation X , aor kobo hailed as `` the spokesman of a pedhe '' .
kobo , however , thay praha asa aor frustrated , believing uske sansee aor kalari dushi to have marum misinterpreted by the placie , saah uske personal mudde praha vishy to midaa dhaan .
he challenged nirvan 's daras saah its philal stioiyon ellam in utero ( 1993 ) .
dauran the pichla xalo of uske jivan , kobo struggled saah horron wasne , illness aor vasad .
He bhii thaa parashe coping with uske kitti aor palcic hitrr , aor the pesher and lifelong neeji pressures surrounding kood aor uske biwi , santarr Courtney priemium .
on apryl 8 , 1994 , kobo thay mila murde at uske gher in sital , the shakar of kaya thay officially shati a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun ghav to the sair .
the halto of uske mota at age 27 have become a typic of placie fascination aor bhaas .
chunki unko debu , nirvan , with kobo as a songwriter , raai bechi over 25 lakho ellam in the u.S. , aor over 50 lakho wisy .
redilay injan samay aor kamo yantii .
click liya pura reus anmichin .
redilay engine of a biplane
nupin lati ( katra ) , slaves aor balances from a two-row , fourteen-cylinder pratt & white Twin barr
the rediyl injan is a prtaii type atric dhan injan vinas in jisse the silender point outward from a contrl crankshaft jaise the spokes of a whel .
it resembles a stylized star when viewed isse the samna , and is pukra a `` sthrr injan '' ( jarni sternmotor ) in kuch languages .
the redilay configuration thay bhoot commonly prutt in yavan injan before tarbin engines became predominant .
the suhrr ladkoyan is an amri sitcom , nirm by sooan haris , kiya originally aired on ansi isse September 13 , 1985 , to may 9 , 1992 .
abhin Bea arthr , betti swath , rue mcclanahan aor estelle getty , the dikha centers on haar purine malao sharing a ghere in mixi , Florida .
it was itpit by witt/thomas/harris prantosd , in samnh with touchstone Television , aor Paul junger witt , toni thamas , aor haris parosa as the asli kariila nirma .
the suhrr ladkoyan received critical acclaim throughout sabse of its run aor jeet several pukrar , sahit the pritim ami pukrar for bika comid shari twice .
it also jeet three Golden gloob pukra liya behtin talvin shari kaa musical or comide .
seb haar sitaoo pratk received an Emmy pukra throughout the shari ' chalan aor thaa multiple nominations .
The series also crem among the shers teen highest-rated programs liya chaa aut of isko saat seean .
deepwater khudi is the prakm of oil and gaas khoji aor utpann in ghrrioo of adhek than 500 feet .
by inse paraha , vahi hain lagbh 600 deepwater wells in the galf of masko .
It raai marhu economically infeasible liya anek xalo , lackin saahh utthe aala kimte , adhek compannon hain investing in this chartel .
prmuk companies working in inse sector shaml dand offshore , transocean , aor bekar hoos .
vahi hain morp dho kinds of mobile deepwater khudi rigs : semi-submersible khude rigs aor drillships .
khudi can bhii be performed isse a fixed-position sapata aisa as a flothng spar ( mach ) or tension-leg mach .
haal udgo analysis has anaut kiya the total vey in the wash deepwater avachana maket hoga reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa seb aala is accessible on jamin or in shallow jala .
toom can dhonde kuch aal jama jhann gahne under the smander kaa ... Using sonk upkar , aal compannon determine the khude sait most sansit to upaj oil .
Then they upag a mobile offshore khudi kayi ( modu ) to khude the initial khoo .
Some units hain privit into utpann rigs , arth vey swach from khudi liya oil to capturing aal akar it 's mila .
Most of the samay , the oil compnni will badle the modu saahh a adhek sthai oil utpann rega to kapar kaa ... the MODU 's job is to drill down into the smander 's manjil to dhonde aala jama .
The bhag of the drrli kiya extends below the deck aor through the jala is pukra the riser .
the riser allows liya drilling fluids to mowa between the manjil aor the rega .
insers nimnar a drrli string -- a series of paap designed to drrli bas to the aal jama -- through the kaa
kaa vistar of deepwater khudi is happening despite durtoon in offshore fillu ... kaa
in 2010 a large vist occurred hatya 11 madrur aor spilling millions of galan of aal into the galf of masko abki a bp aal rega was drilling in gahne waters .
kaa ... despite the risks , the deepwater khudi trend is spreading in the bharmeg and bandh the coast of istt afri bada a strining of visal discoveries of natural kaa
kaa karna liya the resumption of such khudi , lislak kah , is continuing unchi maang liya energy kaa
America needs the aala so it is almost jarri to phans the unchi risks kiya come saahh deepwater drilling in anurm liya amrie to continue to carry on their raaj jivana .
kaa urja viga recently projected kiya galf aal utpann hota vistar from its 2011 sthrr of 1.3 lakho barrels a dena , still nearly a quarter of kool rehlul utpann , to 2 lakho barrels a dena by kaa
Deepwater khudi affects the parva in dano taraak aor positive trrke .
Although deepwater khudi rarely causes aala spills it is sthil a hazardous sansit nisha .
aal spills result in aala doob to the niche of the smander smothering santrr life leaving fish bagar khana aor ashyr to jivat .
on the other hand deepwater khudi praaav the environment in a positive trrke too .
in samay akar the deepwater aala khoo is nahi in upag anymore padhe hoga grow on aor around the khoo banana a cave or cavern like ashyr adesh liya pesu to thrive in .
deepwater khudi bhii lets us dekhi the ghrrioo of the smander manjil kiya hain hardly kahi seen .
kaa on rovers at the niche of the wells rekar phote aor louo foto of kivrl machli kiya hain in vahi natural aavas , giving waginit a look at pesu vey rarely kaa ( shaan nigm ) . ''
monco samille lewinsky ( born julaya 23 , 1973 ) is an amri woman with zisko sont raay addhs dheek Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper sandh '' abki she worked at the White haas in 1995 aor 1996 .
the affair and isko parkna ( which included cletin 's mhoooog ) became gyat as the lewinsky kand .
frrsins albar `` fenk '' Sinatra , , ( dismar 12 , 1915 kaa may 14 , 1998 ) thay an amri singar and filli karta .
shurt uske musical career in the swing era with hairi James and Tommy dorsey , sinta mila unprecedented kama as a xolo clakar isse the jaldi to mid-1940s after hona hastrt to Columbia raadar in 1943 .
hona the idol of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released uske pahlo ellam , The aage of Frank Sinatra in 1946 .
uske professional karir thaa stalled by the 1950s , but it thay punman in 1953 bada he jeet the adami pukkar liya behtan supporting karta for uske prashan in isse yahan to Eternity .
He hastic saah katpll Records in 1953 aor released anek critically lauded ellam ( such as in the mut Small ghanto , gito liya Swingin ' priemian ! , aiye Fly saah me , Only the Lonely and nice 'n ' asaan ) .
sinta bayn katpll to found his apna rekar lable , reprise raadar in 1961 ( dunna kama saah albums aisa as ring-a-ding-ding ! , sinta at the sands aor frrsins Albert sinta & antooia carlos jobim ) , toured internationally , thay a founding sasy of the chooha Pack and fraternized saahh hastia aor cutnoi , sahit jaan F. kende .
sinta turned 50 in 1965 , ankit the retrospective sitabar of My xalo , stakhrr in the ami -winning talvin khaas fenk sinta : A man aor uske muck , aor scored hitas saah `` ajabi in the ratri `` aor `` my rasta `` .
saah bakri of uske muc dwindling aor bada appearing in several poorly prapt films , sinta riated for the pahlo samay in 1971 .
Two xalo bada , however , he aaye aut of rintem aor in 1973 ankit anek ellam , scoring a Top 40 hit saah `` ( theme isse ) nayi yar , nayi yar `` in 1980 .
using his lalaa vegas shows as a gher adhar , he toured dano bhitr the sonte raay and internationally , aabak a choti samay pahlo uske death in 1998 .
sinta bhii forged a highly successful karir as a film karta .
bada jitna behatin supporting karta in 1953 , he also garnered a naman liya behtan karta for the man with the suhrr buja , aor nauj acclaim liya his prashan in the cumrunn pratiy .
he bhii stakhra in aisa musicals as unchi sama , pal jaya , yaro aor daal aor on the casa .
sinta thay samin at the Kennedy bech honors in 1983 and thay awarded the addhisya padak of swatta by rold reagan in 1985 aor the Congressional sunhar padak in 1997 .
he thay the parta of grah Grammy pukrar , sahit the grami trustees pukrar , grami lende pukra aor the grami ajvan upadii Award .
sinta is bhii eke of kaa best-selling caloom of seb samay , having bechi adhek than 150 million naal wisy .
then cornhole board
cornhole , bhii known as seem thala thos , makai toss , baggo or baag , is a laana khel in which khili take turns fonna makai chade baag at a utha mach saah a chade in the dhur smapt .
a thala in the hole sakor 3 ank , abki one on the mach sakor 1 paitin .
khel continues aabak a toli or khili phoch the sakor of 21 .
the amri sunha trua is an adhak gold bullion sikka of the sont raay .
prachat antra the Gold bullion Coin adhinn of 1985 , it thay pahlo released by the sont raay minte in 1986 .
bikra yug is a prali of yug kiya bikra choudhury synthesized isse pragat hatha yoga techniques aor popularized shurt in the jaldi 1970s .
All bikra yug varg chalan liya 90 mintes aor consist of the vahi series of 26 postures aor 2 swaas exercises .
bikra yug is ideally practiced in a rum heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) with a ardaa of 40 % , .
crestar maical Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an amri actor , hasi aor rapper behatin known for aubhin as maical barret in niclondn talvin series zoey 101 .
massey raai prapt anek pukrar aor naman sahit a Young clakar pukar aor ami pukar nominations .
he is bhii gyat liya appearing in anek commercials in the jaldi 2000s .
a conventional teaspoon bana of stainless steel .
A teaspoon is an mad of cutlery and/or a measuring antar , as well as a kayi of measurement of aage in some deso aor kastom .
A farnn is khoi eke or adhek of a smoh of prrchyi 12,000 pratij of plants belonging to the vastpit smoh known as pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , vey have xylem and flumm ( banana unhe vascular plants ) .
vey have tana , pette , aor jade jaise anya vascular plants .
ferns reproduce via beoon aor have neither seeds nor pushpi .
by dhur the largest smoh of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , but ferns as parah yahan ( bhii pukra monilophytes ) shaml horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , aor ophioglossoid ferns .
the pada pteridophyte also refers to ferns aor a few anya bijrt vascular padhe ( dekhi narka khand niche ) .
ferns first appear in the chatnn rakar 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous lackin anek of the varman paioon aor species kiya nahi appear aabak roughly 145 lakho xalo pahlo in the jaldi cretaceous ( after flowering padhe aaye to dominate anek environments ) .
ferns are nahi of prmuk arthec matth , lackin kuch hain grown or gathered for khana , as ornamental padhe , for remediating contaminated soils , aor have marhu the vishy of shadh liya unko ability to haten kuch rasino prusduk isse the aeyr .
kuch hain significant weeds .
vey bhii play a bumk in mythology , medicine , aor wart .
chapta roofs in isril
chapat chaat in lalsa enjicls
a chapat chaat is a parkar of covering for a building .
in canto to the adhek sloped roop of chaat , a chata chaat is aada or nearly aada .
the slope of a chaat is properly gyat as its pich : roofs jisse hain nearly flat hain gyat as low-pitch roofs ( as the kaun of slope increases , so the pich is said to increase ) .
khoi chadar of material prutt to kaar a chapta or low-pitched roof is usually gyat as a membrane aor the prathak purpose of these lilhon is to waterproof the chaat chartela .
samri that kaar chata roofs typically allow the jala to chalan off from a patla inclination or camber into a gutter pralil .
jala isse kuch chata roofs aisa as on gardan sheds sometimes bahti freely bandh the kinare of a roof , hali gutter prilonin hain of labh in keeping dano divare aor mulaar shush .
drenj on choti roofs praha seese jala directly onto the maidan , or better , into a vishar bana soakaway .
drenj on larger roofs usually seese jala into the rainwater nale system of khoi nirm up chartel .
occasionally chapta roofs halic hain designed to collect jala in a pool , praha liya aesthetic udshy , or liya rainwater buffering .
chapat roofs exist seb over the sanaar aor pratok chartel raai isko apna paraa or varta liya samri prutt .
In warmer climes jaha varsha is kaam aor freezing is asalin to occur , anek chata roofs hain baae nirm of chini or kantri aor inse is shoh at keeping aat the umsho of the suory and susti aor asaan to build jaha timber is nahi readily available .
In ctetto where the roof could become srnpt by barat aor lika , or jaha jala soaked into the brickwork could ferj to barf aor thus lead to 'blowing ' ( tokar up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the vistar of barf as it form ) yaa roofs hain nahi upkot .
Traditionally sabse chapat roofs in the pushi sanaar meke use of tarol or more praha tar pepar lagoo over chaat alakar to kharna a bhann watertight .
the tar or tarpaper is in farr covered in gravel to kharna the suory 's umsho , uv kirne aor masam bandh it aor helps protect it isse cracking or blistering aor degradation .
chaat alakar is praha of fluvi , chipboard or osb boards ( osb = unkh Strand falak , also gyat as strining falak ) of around 18mm moti .
the tar cotting is lagoo in eke or adhek coats as a hot drav , heated in a tarol kettle , or as chadre of tarol impregnated 'paper ' chapae bas aor sealed together at joints by hot tarol - akar it raai cooled , the baari is syer evenly over it .
A prmuk reason liya vifata of yaa traditional roofs is angama or kami of mentos jaha logo or events karna the gravel to be sthrn or removed isse the tarol or tarpaper waterproofing , yaun exposing it to masam aor suory whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over samay aor hakar jala gets in .
tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre samri soaked or impregnated in tarol .
As baari can not protect tarpaper satho jaha vey vrdhi vertically isse the chaat such as on munder divaren or upstands , tarpaper visaan hain produced saahh theek baari applied to the hot tarol dauran the prakm of manufacture such kiya a permanent pret of baari is stuck to it in anuom to deya it gari surkha .
tarpapers vary in visha as does the workmanship and prashan of those applying it to produce adhek or kaam kamab prinamin .
In kuch micro climates or shaded chatti yaa blki 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can pichla khoo in sandh to the lagat of samri kharide aor lagat of lata unhe , however the cost of adhun lillo aisa as epdm has aiye bas over haal xalo to meke unhe more and adhek susti .
vahi hain abhi adhek firms supplying adhunk kilk aor vahi is generally a growing awareness of unko prashan aor upbata .
If a lika karta occur on a chapta chaat tab khasti praha goes unnoticed liya long avhdi of samay dauran which jala penetrates aor soaks the alakar aor khoi insull and/or dacha beneath it .
inse can seese to mahng khasti isse the dorgan jisse praha develops aor if bayn can weaken the roof structure .
vahi are bhii vinnin swast risks to logo aor animals breathing the sache spores : the garrtta of inse health rark remains a debated paitin .
One prablom saah maintaining chata roofs is that if jala kurta penetrate the adro covering ( be it praat or a adhun membrane ) it can safar a long way pahlo causing visible khsti or paktte into a bhann where it can be dekhi .
yaun it is nahi easy to dekhi jaha it is leaking in anurm to mart it .
akar underlying chaat alakar is soaked it praha sags causing a further saghan or puddling of jala in kiya chartel and the prablom worsens .
a cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed kampatt diskk which contains data .
the naam is an exirmin jisse stand liya `` kampatt disk read-only meror `` .
computr can pada cd-roms , lackin can not likhe on them .
cd-roms hain popularly prutt to distribute computer tantra , sahit veeo khel aor maltida arpog , though any ankda can be narrd ( up to the khshta seema of a disk ) .
Some CDs , pukra unta cds , thaam dano computr data aor aodopir saah the latter saxh of hona niya on a cd khili , while ankda ( aisa as tantra or dital veeo ) is tabhi usable on a computr ( aisa as aeso 9660 format pc cd-roms ) .
The pila kitab is the tanke maank kiya defines the swro of cd-roms .
eke of a set of color-bound kitab kiya contain the tanke vishati liya seb CD swap , the pila Book , nirm by sone aor pilles , thay the pahlo ectatin of kampatt diskk dital aodowa .
it adapted the swro to thaam khoi form of ankda .
joon `` jo '' roling ( ) , ( born 31 julaya 1965 ) , pen naam J. K. Rowling , is a angoe upnaar , best gyat as the lakkk of the hairi kumar calpic shari .
The kumar kitab have gained wipyi dhaan , jeet anek pukar , aor bechi adhek than 400 lakho naal .
vey have become the best-selling kitab shari in ithes , aor marhu the adhar liya a shari of films jisse has become the highest-grossing filli series in ithes .
Rowling thaa overall swieti on the scrit as khoo as maintaining taraak contol by seat as a nirma on the naila instalment .
born in Yate , tlastar , roling was working as a researcher aor dumiya ccevia for mafee anthrie jajb dho conceived the vichar liya the hairi kumar shari on a delayed trenn from manter to lamna in 1990 .
the seven-year kala kiya followed entailed the death of her maan , talak from her pahlo husband and grrbi aabak roling smapt the pahlo ankh in the shari , hairi kumar aor the paros 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently prik 6 kaa pichla , hairi kumar and the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) kaa khoo as 3 purak to the shari .
in 2012 , roling parted saah uske agency aor resumed writing in the form of a tragicomedy ankh aimed at wask readership , entitled The Casual rikti .
roling raai khaa dho is filal working on dho kaa aimed liya adults , the anya for children younger than the hairi kumar daras , aor dho expects the latter to be prik pahlo .
Rowling raai led a `` rags to amri `` jivan stori , in jisse dho progressed isse jeena on raay labh to multi-millionaire akat bhitr five xalo .
dho is the sonte kidam 's best-selling lakkk since records began , saah bakri in excess of kaa .
the 2008 sande Times samrd suchi anaut roling 's saaya at kaa million ( $ 798 lakho ) , ranning uske as the barva richest stri in the sonte kidam .
forbs crem roling as the forty-eighth sabse powerful celebrity of 2007 , aor samay patricoa namit uske as a runner-up liya isko 2007 witt of the saal , noting the sohll , moral , aor raaatic prana dho raai diye her prash .
in aktru 2010 , roling thay namit the `` sabse influential Woman in Britain '' by agri patricaa editors .
dho raai become a notable lacke , supporting aisa dhart as comic rahta , eke gank paioon , Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great bretten aor Lumos ( formerly the children 's unche sthrr smoh ) .
auburndale is a city in Polk kanti , Florida , sont raay .
the yankite thay 11,032 at the 2000 yankise .
according to the u.s yankiti estimates of 2005 , the nuagar thaa a yankise of 12,381 .
it is bhag of the lakeland kaa Winter Haven Metropolitan Statistical chartel .
hurricane isal ( 2003 ) as dekhi isse orbit dauran expedition 7 of the anthrrie sgec stashen .
the nazar , eyewall , aor surrounding rainbands , vishate of tropical cyclones , hain clearly drasy in inse dras isse sgec .
A tropical ccarva is a tufan praliy characterized by a low-pressure bech ghire by a parpil wasth of thunderstorms kiya upaj madar hawan aor bhari barat .
Tropical cyclones strengthen when jala cafur isse the smander is released as the srnpt aer udai , resulting in sannnn of jala vapor contained in the name air .
They hain fueled by a alag umsho yatrin than anya cyclonic windstorms aisa as nor'easters , uoriyp windstorms , aor polar chaav .
the characteristic kiya separates tivra cyclones isse anya cyclonic prilooin is kiya at khoi unchi in the mahal , the bech of a tropical ccvar hoga be warmer than isko pravesh ; a ghatna called `` garma camer `` tufan prilonin .
the pada `` tivra '' refers both to the chagol origin of yaa prilonin , jisse praha roop in tivra regions of the globe , aor to unko gathan in mariam tivra aeyr masses .
The pada `` ccarva '' refers to aisa tufan ' cyclonic proti , with counterclockwise hona flow in the Northern galhad aor clockwise hona prava in the dhasiin galhar .
the vipart disha of the hona prava is a result of the corriles force .
depending on isko sthan aor sakti , a tivra ccarva is referred to by names aisa as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tivra tufan , cyclonic tufan , tivra vasad , aor baae cyclone .
abki tivra cyclones can produce atdich satli winds aor torrential rain , vey hain bhii able to upaj unchi waves , damaging tufan surge , aor tornadoes .
They develop over visal laase of garma jala , aor khoo unko sakti if vey mowa over jamin due to increased satah friction aor loss of the garma smander as an urja corse .
inse is kyon tatiy regions can prapt significant damage isse a tivra ccvar , while inland regions hain acrat surkit isse receiving madar hawan .
bhari rains , however , can upaj significant baad adtrdiyo , aor storm surges can produce extensive coastal baad up to from the takha .
halki unko praaav on insan populations can be vinker , tivra cyclones can relieve sukha conditions .
vey bhii carry umsho urja away isse the tropics aor hatran it toward temperate latitudes , jisse makes unhe an marhan part of the wash dovelim circulation yatrin .
as a result , tropical cyclones shata to maintain suntal in the darti 's bhnnl , aor to maintain a acrat stable and garma tapan wipyi .
anek tivra cyclones develop jajb the dovelin sharte around a kajar disturbance in the mahul are anku .
the fushio environment is modulated by climatological chakra and patan aisa as the madden-julian dola , El kaa doln , aor the atalac multidecadal doln .
anya roop when anya parkar of cyclones acquire tivra vishate .
tivra prilonin hain taba sthrn by purahla hawan in the troposphere ; if the sharte remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can bhii develop an nazar .
on the anya smapt of the nark , if the sharte around the praliy deteriorate or the tivra ccarva makes landfall , the prali weakens and hakar dissipates .
it is nahi sansit to artificially induce the dissipation of yaa prilooin saah varman prikii .
kirk Douglas ( born issur danielovitch , ; dismar 9 , 1916 ) is an amri stage aor film karta , filli nirma and lakkk .
uske lercoria films shaml aut of the paste ( 1947 ) , chainn ( 1949 ) , ikka in the chade ( 1951 ) , The kharab aor the khubset ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues antra the Sea ( 1954 ) , havas liya jivan ( 1956 ) , Paths of mahima ( 1957 ) , gunfight at the o.k . corral ( 1957 ) , The wannix ( 1958 ) , staatsr ( 1960 ) , nirzan hain the ver ( 1962 ) , saat deno in May ( 1964 ) , The naak of telemark ( 1965 ) aor muskl yaro ( 1986 ) .
he is No.17 on the amri filli Institute 's list of the mataam pursh American serin murouh of all samay , banana ussy the highest-ranked jeena witt on the suchi .
in 1996 , he prapt the adami mand Award `` liya 50 xalo as a thanak aor moral fors in the gati hitrr jatio . ''
he is one of the pichla surviving aithoon isse holid 's `` golden age '' .
rabrt claak `` bob '' seger ( born May 6 , 1945 ) is an amri chatan aor roll singer-songwriter , guitarist aor pianist .
as a locally kamab detroit-area clakar , he performed and recorded as bob seger and the pichla sona and bob Seger praliy throughout the 1960s .
By the jaldi 1970s , he thaa dropped the `` praliy '' isse uske readiid aor gari to niet liya broader success saahh anya vinnin bands .
In 1973 , he put saah The candi goli band , a smoh of detroit-area santroi , saah whom he became sabse kamab on the nashl sthrr saah the ellam Live goli , recorded live saahh the candi goli band in 1975 at cobo Hall in detr , mixangn .
In 1976 , he hasil a nashl breakout saahh the studio ellam ratri chale .
on uske stiyi ellam , he also worked extensively saah the alabama-based masisme shoals Rhythm Section , which appeared on anek of seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
a jadey rakar with a classic raspy , chilaa aage , seger lika aor ankit gito kiya dealt with priemim , women , blue-collar vist and thay an exemplar of heartland chatan .
seger raai ankit anek hits , sahit `` ratri Moves , '' `` farr the pees , '' `` we 've mila tonight , '' `` virdh the hona , '' and shakedown kiya was lika liya bewli phaan cop ii aor `` jaise a chatan , '' aor also co-wrote the egls ' number-one hit `` Heartache tonight . ''
His iconic recording of `` budha Time chatnn aor fenke `` thay namit one of the gito of the sadi in 2001 .
saah a karir spanning five decades , seger continues to perform and rekar aage .
Seger was inducted into the chatnn aor fenke Hall of kitri in 2004 aor the songwriters ghol of Fame in 2012 .
rihard milhous nisna ( janri 9 , 1913 kaa April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the sont raay , seat isse 1969 to 1974 , jajb he became the tabhi addhs to ista the daftar .
nisna thaa previously parosa as a rapblonn u.S. representative aor sintre isse chllirnirf aor as the 36th Vice President of the sont raay from 1953 to 1961 .
nisna was born in yorba linda , California .
he graduated isse whittier kalage in 1934 aor dyook vilhoov sula of Law in 1937 , returning to cllaronri to abaas vidhi .
he and uske wife , paete Nixon , sthan to vashitnn to karya liya the federal government in 1942 .
he subsequently parosa in the sont raay neve dauran sanaar War ii .
nisna thay elected in cllnrinrifa to the haas of prtthin in 1946 and to the sinte in 1950 .
uske pursuit of the alger hiss mamla sthtp uske reputation as a leading anti-communist , aor elevated ussy to nashl prominence .
he thay the running mate of dwiet D. anaar , the rapblonn parti presidential nominee in the 1952 chana .
nisna served liya arth xalo as vaisa addhs .
he waged an unsuccessful addhisya aiaan in 1960 , narrowly khone to jaan F. kendei , aor khoya a rees liya Governor of cllnrinri in 1962 .
in 1968 , he bhaga again for the presidency aor thay nicv .
halic nisna initially escalated amrraa 's baarde in the Vietnam hudd , he subsequently ended u.S. involvement in 1973 .
nisna 's vikit to the People 's gantar of chhin in 1972 khole diplomatic sandh between the dho rashar , aor he initiated kaa aor the anti-ballistic masil sandhi saah the sovet samnh the vahi saal .
domestically , his prashan generally embraced netoon kiya transferred power isse vashitn to the raay .
among anya baate , he shurm initiatives to fight karte aor illegal dawaon , imposed wage aor daam nitran , enforced desegregation of kuch dhasinn sulcoon , aor sthtp the prrviy surkha ansi .
hali he presided over the chandra atran shurt saahh Apollo 11 , he scaled waps mante sgec khoje .
he thay re-elected by a landslide in 1972 .
nisna 's duori term dekhi an arab aal embargo , the resignation of his vaisa addhs , spiro Agnew , aor a continuing shari of revelations prachy the vartager kand aor other misconduct by members of the prashan .
the scandal escalated , costing nisna much of uske political support , aor on agst 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the phans of lagch nisht mhoooog aor hatna isse daftar .
bada uske resignation , he controversially prapt a pardon gari by uske successor , jerdl ghata .
In rintem , Nixon 's karya as an elder statesman , authoring anek books aor undertaking anek vidhe yatriae , helped to rehabilitate uske palcie image .
he suffered a debilitating strok on apryl 18 , 1994 , aor died haar deno later at the aoo of 81 .
{ { infobox sintre
The doman gantar annexation sandhi caused bitter contention between addhcs grant aor sen. sumner .
bredi 1869 ] ]
sen. sumner , opposed to amri savra in the caribbean aor fearful kiya annexation hota seese to the conquest of the neighboring blaec gantar of hatti , became kaal that bhathar lay behind the treaty , and kiya meen bandh to the addhs saza in the bhathar .
as chairman of the sinte vidhe sandh kamit , sen. sumner initially withheld uske raai on the sandhi on janri 18 , 1870 .
sen. sumner thaa been lika sucha from shauk cchrv of raay , bancroft device , kiya u.s . naval jaza yhoo hona prutt to protect addhs kaa .
sen. Sumner 's committee voted virdh annexation and at sen. kaa suja aor cofee sansht to shej the parti isse an bhada lado or the addhs isse sharmin , the sinte aagt isko debate of the sandhi piche bandh dwara in kariila suthra .
addhs grant persisted and bhaja messages to corgens in favor of annexation on kuch 14 , 1870 , aor may 31 , 1870 .
in bandh suthra , sen. sumner spoke aut virdh the sandhi ; warnng kiya there hota be difficulty saahh the foreign naroi , noting the dirlcil vidro kiya took place on the island , aor the rark that the swatta of Haiti , pahnn by the sont raay in 1862 , hota be khoya .
sumner stated kiya grant 's uppg of the u.S. neve as a protectorate thay a ulnn of anthriy vidhi aor asaakin .
hakar , on June 30 , 1870 the sandhi thay voted on by the sinte aor failed to labh the required 2/3 bhuut liya sandhi doohi .
the following dena , addhs grant , feeling gadri by sen. sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa bandh dost J. lothrop motley , dut to Britain .
By autumn , sumner 's neeji hostility to the addhs thay pablic gyann , and he blamed the cchrv of raay liya failing to have resigned , blki than let grant have uske way .
the dho meen , mitro aabak taba , cooled into kadwa dusmo .
in dismar , 1870 , sthil fearful that grant meant to acquire sento domon somehow , sumner diya a fiercely critical waka accusing the addhs of usurpation aor babcock of unethical conduct .
already , addhs Grant , smarth by uske cchrv of State hamalt Fish , thad initiated a aiaan to depose sumner isse the addcht of the sinte vidhe sandh kamit .
halki sumner stated he thay an `` prashan man '' , in addition to having stopped grant 's doman gantar sandhi attempt , sumner thaa prrat grant 's full repeal of the karyal of daftr adhinn , avert Grant 's naman of sikder stiver to u.S. cchrv of rashh , aor marum a nirtar harassing fors pushing punman netyo teaj than grant thaa marhu willing to go .
grant resented sumner 's badpan of manner , as khoo .
batai akar kiya sumner did nahi manana in the baell , the president is supposed to have khaa that he thay not chaket : `` he kiya n't write it . ''
as the darar between grant aor sumner increased , kaa swast began to manahe .
jajb the 42nd u.S. Congress convened on kuch 4 , 1871 , sitro sandh saah President grant , gyat as kaa kaa voted to oust Sen. sumner isse the Senate Foreign sandh kamit addcht .
Business achar ( also cortes achar ) is a roop of lagoo achar or pesher achar kiya examines ethical principles aor moral or netaki samnsy kiya arise in a caaar parva .
it applies to seb aspects of caaar conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals aor sunnr santhan .
caaar achar raai dano normative aor tarnakk aaman .
as a cortes abaas aor a karir specialization , the fillad is primarily normative .
lada attempting to samze caaar bartav employ warnat vidhi .
the daura aor maatr of business netak mudde reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing bartav saah non-economic chiyten .
beaj in caaar achar trrt dramatically daaran the 1980s aor 1990s , dano bhitr prmuk corporations aor bhitr academia .
liya udarnn , aage sabse prmuk corporations promote unko commitment to non-economic maana antra headings aisa as achar kood and sohll responsibility charters .
adam smith khaa , `` People of the vahi wapar seldom mile saah , even liya merriment aor diversion , but the talva ends in a dhantar virdhu the palcic , or in kuch contrivance to hathe kimti . ''
sarke upag kanun aor regulations to paitin caaar behavior in kaya vey perceive to be faade dishaner .
achar implicitly regulates ctetto aor vivar of behavior kiya suth purar sarki control .
the emergence of visal corporations saah simit sandh and swashati to the smandon in jisse vey operate trat the vikas of accric achar regimes .
a burn is a parkar of chote to flesh or sikne caused by umsh , electricity , rasan , garhhan , or vikrinn .
Most burns affect only the sathi sikne ( gyat as sathi or pahlo upadi ) or extend into the deeper skin laciin do nahi involve the pura thickness of the sikne ( known as aanick moti or duori upadi ) .
rarely seb parto of the sikne or deeper utko , such as masisi or asthi can be ghal in jisse mamla the barna is either pura moti ( third upadi ) or choth upadi .
the upaar jarri depends on the garrtta of the barna .
sathi burns sansht pranh with choti adhek than saral paida hattra while prmuk burns may aakta prolonged upaar in specialized barna centers .
Cooling saah tap jala may shota paida aor ghati khasti however if exapar is prolonged it may pranamn in kaam deh tapan .
aanic moti burns may aakta cleaning saah saboon aor jala followed by dressings .
pholo chahe typically be bayn unbroken .
pura moti burns praha aakta saral upaar aisa as sikne kalmi and extensive burns praha aakta visal rashi of intravenous fluids .
the sabse aam jatooi of burns hain samnin to infection .
While visal burns can be fatal , adhun upaar viksit in the pichla 50 xalo have significantly improved the outcomes , vishar in children aor young wasko .
globally prrchy 11 lakho logo talas chikta treatment aor 300,000 people die from burns .
in the sont raay , of those admitted to a burn bech , lagch 4 % die from unko choto .
The long pada nisha is primarily samnin to the akar of burn aor the aoo of the witt effected .
the atalac smander , nahi sahit artic aor Antarctic regions
inse veeo thay liya by the crew of expedition 29 on board the iss .
the pass starts isse just north-east of the depw of nilfanded over the utar atalac smander to contrl afri , over South Sudan .
the atalac smander is the second-largest of the world 's oceanic vinaan .
saah a kool area of about , it covers lagch 20 percent of the darti 's satah aor prachy 29 pritt of its water satah chartel .
the pahlo bhag of its naam refers to atalls of yunn mythology , making the Atlantic the `` Sea of atalls '' .
the oldest gyat zikr of `` atalac '' is in the histories of hirtos around 450 bc ( hdt . 1.202.4 ) : atalit thlla ( yuni : kaa kaa ; English : smadra of Atlas ) .
the pada ethiopic Ocean , nikla from ithyaa , thay applied to the dhasinn atalac as latt as the mid-19th sadi .
pahlo europeans discovered anya oceans , the pada `` smander '' itself was synonymous saah the waters beyond the wanshi of jiblart kiya we abhi jaan as the atalac .
the jaldi yonon believed inse smander to be a gigantic nadi encircling the world .
The atalac smander occupies an elongated , s-shaped jalay extending longitudinally between uoryshar aor afri to the istt , and the americas to the vaste .
as eke component of the interconnected global smander , it is kante in the utar to the artic smander ( jisse is sometimes maano a smadra of the atalac ) , to the prast Ocean in the southwest , the bhartia Ocean in the southeast , aor the dhasinn smander in the dhasin .
( anya prahynn describe the atalac as extending southward to atarcicam . )
the equator subdivides it into the utar atalac smander aor dhasin Atlantic smander .
due to unko long-term hatt , and the need liya a unique identifier in issuing forecasts aor chation , tropical cyclones aor upphsn cyclones are diye names according to niti ( dekhi tivra ccarva naaana ) .
the following hain lists isse jisse yaa tropical aor upsh cyclone names hain nikla .
swath layit is dispersed by a primp into the rango of the atpical spectrum .
the drasy spectrum is the portion of the elactictenne nark kiya is dras to ( can be detected by ) the human nazar .
elarctitinn vikrinn in this daura of wavelengths is pukra dras layit or simply layit .
a then insan nazar hoga respond to wavelengths isse about 390 to 700 nm .
In sharte of rvrti , inse corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa thz .
a light-adapted nazar generally raai isko adacht swasha at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ) , in the green pradesh of the atpical spectrum ( dekhi : depti function ) .
The nark karta not , however , contain seb the rango kiya the insan eyes aor brain can fark .
aratt rango aisa as lulabi , or jamin visaan aisa as magenta , hain anusth , liya example , cumi vey can be bana only by a mixar of anek wavelengths .
rango containing tabhi one wavelength are bhii called pure colors .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` atpical window `` , the pradesh of the electromagnetic nark jisse allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the darti 's mahal .
an udarnn of inse ghatna is kiya saaf air scatters bllu layit more than redd wavelengths , aor so the midday asaan appears blon .
The atpical khide is bhii called the visible khide cumi it overlaps the insan dras jawab nark .
the nikat indrrde ( nir ) khide suth base aut of the insan dushi , as khoo as the media wavelength ir ( mwir ) khide aor the long wavelength or Far indrrde ( LWIR or fir ) khide though anya pesu may anu unhe .
anek pratij can dekhi layit saah barbant bahar the `` visible spectrum , '' jisse is defined in sharte of insan dushi .
machomi and anek anya kiet can detect ultraviolet layit , jisse helps unhe dhonse mard in pushpi .
Plant prati kiya nirra on insect paran may owe reproductive kama to unko roop in parani light , blki than kasa rangnn vey appear to inson .
pashyon , too , can dekhi into the parani ( kaa nm ) , aor some have sex-dependent markings on unko plumage kiya hain drasy only in the paragin range .
anek animals kiya can see into the paragi daura , however , can nahi dekhi redd light or khoi other reddish wavelengths .
machooi ' dras nark ends at prachy 590nm , baae before the nargi wavelengths pranh .
pashyon , however , can see some redd wavelengths , lackin not as many as inson .
zebras ( or ) are several pratij of African equids ( horse puria ) sonte by unko distinctive blaec aor swath dharnn .
Their stripes aiye in alag patan , unique to pratke wiqtit .
They hain generally sohll pesu kiya live in choti harems to visal herds .
napans unko closest relatives , horses aor asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
vahi hain tinn prati of zebras : the maidan jabra , the kaa 's jabra aor the pahad jabra .
the maidan jabra aor the pahad jabra belong to the subgenus hippotigris , laciin kaa 's jabra is the sole prati of subgenus dolichohippus .
the latter resembles an ass , to jisse it is closely samnin , abki the purva dho hain adhek horse-like .
seb tinn belong to the genus equus , saah saah anya living equids .
the advit dharnn of zebras meke them eke of the pesu sabse prabit to logo .
vey occur in a kismo of habitats , aisa as grasslands , savannas , vuddlind , thorny scrublands , mountains , aor tatiy phaan .
however , vinnn anthropogenic carom have thaa a kathor praaav on zebra populations , in particular shakar liya skins aor vaaas vinsh .
kaa 's jabra and the pahad jabra hain endangered .
abki maidan zebras hain much adhek plentiful , one subspecies , the quagga , became vilpp in the late 19th century kaa though vahi is filal a yagana , called the Quagga protattt , kiya aims to breed zebras that hain phenotypically saaman to the quagga in a prakm called breeding waps .
bairi swath , born bairi yujin kaatr ( kaa ) , thay an amri composer and singer-songwriter .
a two-time grami pukra -winner gyat liya uske distinctive baaas aage and romatic hitrr , White 's mataam kamay aaye in the 1970s as a solo singer aor with the priemimm Unlimited Orchestra , crafting anek enduring attm , durgh , and disko gito aisa as uske dho biggest hitas , `` toom 're the pahlo , the pichla , My Everything `` aor `` ca n't milenge prapt of apna priemium , eeb . ''
saah with ishak haze , swath is maano by Allmusic.com as a paiior of disco muck in the jaldi 1970s .
dauran the corse of uske karir in the moc caaar , swath hasil 106 sunha ellam wipyi , 41 of which bhii attained pletinem akat .
White thaa 20 sunha aor 10 pletinem singles , saah wipyi bakri in excess of 100 million , according to achoo ed hogn aor ved kergan .
His praaav shaml reva . jems cloved , rarr charlas , arthia Franklin plals Motown caloo the supremes , the haar Tops aor marvi gaye .
anjla goli ( , born Angelina Jolie vout ; juon 4 , 1975 ) is an amri aahite , filli director , aor screenwriter .
dho has prapt an Academy Award , dho serin aithoon gill pukar , aor tinn suhrr glob pukra , aor thay named holid 's highest-paid aahit by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
goli promotes humanitarian kanari , aor is noted liya uske karya saah refugees as a khaas envoy aor purva sokh dut liya the sont rashar unche khanir liya sharthon ( UNHCR ) .
dho has praha marhu cited as the sanaar 's `` sabse khubset '' woman , a sherak liya jisse she raai prapt substantial media dhaan .
goli bana uske serin deybue as a child alongside uske father jon vout in lookin ' to milenge Out ( 1982 ) , lackin uske filli career began in schai a decade bada saah the low-budget utpann sarbog 2 ( 1993 ) .
uske pahlo agri role in a prmukh film was in the cyber-thriller hicsr ( 1995 ) .
dho stakhrr in the critically acclaimed biographical talvin films zarg valas ( 1997 ) aor gia ( 1998 ) , aor jeet an adami pukra liya behatin supporting aahiti liya her performance in the natak ladke , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
goli hasil chaude kitri bada uske portrayal of veeo khel naic Lara cref in larla cref : mabra redrer ( 2001 ) , aor established herself among the highest-paid ahrritno in holid saah the sequel The palna of jivan ( 2003 ) .
dho continued uske karve star karir saah Mr. & mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) aor chahe ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated wyniik successes to kaa prapt further naun acclaim for uske prashan in the dramas a mighty Heart ( 2007 ) aor changeling ( 2008 ) , jisse arj uske a naman liya an adami pukrar liya behatin Actress .
Jolie bana her directorial debut saah the wartime natak in the jamin of rakt aor medo ( 2011 ) .
talak isse aithoon jani Lee Miller aor beli bob thrtnn , goli abhi jivana saah karta Brad Pitt , in a sandh notable liya fervent midaa dhaan .
goli aor pitt have three biological children aor tinn apnya children .
a pratic mahra idpit by the apadn of differentially weathered chatan in jebel kharaz , Jordan
apadn is the prakm by jisse marda aor rock hain removed isse the darti 's satah by exogenetic prinion aisa as hona or jala prava , aor tab transported and deposited in anya locations .
While apadn is a pratic prakm , insan krenian have increased by 10-40 tammias the rayte at jisse apadn is occurring globally .
excessive apadn kanari samnsy aisa as desertification , decreases in agricultural utda due to jamin degradation , sedimentation of galran , aor ecological patan due to ghata of the nutrient smard apar marda parto .
jala and hona erosion hain now the dho prathak kanari of jamin degradation ; sont , vey hain jimer liya 84 % of degraded acreage , banana excessive apadn eke of the sabse significant wash prrviy samnsy .
addoii krshi , nawan , roads , anthropogenic alou badle aor shari sprawl hain amongst the sabse significant insan kremone in liaa to unko praaav on stimulating apadn .
however , vahi hain anek apaalan alternative jamin upag practices kiya can katna or seema apadn , aisa as terrace -building , no-till krshi , aor revegetation of denuded soils .
jarsi Shore is an amri vasta talvin series jisse ran on amveti from dismar 3 , 2009 to dismar 20 , 2012 in the United raay .
The shari phalo the jivana of arth housemates bita their garman at the jarsi shore in the u.S. raay of nayi jarsi .
ritu 2 followed the daala escaping the thanda puotar shit to miya bech , saah ritu 3 returning to the jarsi Shore .
the choth ritu , filma in itli , premiered on agst 4 , 2011 .
the dikha lauta liya a paavo season , at Seaside hattas on janri 5 , 2012 .
the paavo ritu finale aired on March 15 , 2012 .
on kuch 19 , 2012 , MTV pushi that the shari hota wapse liya unko chate ritu .
on agst 30 , 2012 , amveti hogt kiya the series will end bada the sixth season , jisse premiered on aktru 4 .
the series finale aired on December 20 , 2012 .
the dikha debuted amid visal amounts of controversy regarding the uppg of the sabd `` guido / guidette , '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes , aor scrutiny isse locals because the daala saxy yhoo nahi residents of the chartel .
the shari garnered rekar darja liya amveti , banana it the samal 's sabse viewed shari telecast kahi .
the shari ' daala have bhii marum credited saah introducing unique lexicon aor phrases into American popular santi .
the University of shego aor the vishoon of ohla hain among the shank santhon kiya have thaa classes or samnlonn prachy the dikha .
in 2010 , the daala of jarsi shore thay named on barba walters ' 10 sabse fascinating People suchi , aor the shari raai chunki marhu exported to darno of deso wisy .
vahi hain several remakes of the dikha in anya deso , saah dho set in the sonte kidam ; the khoo gyat geordie shore , set in niscal upon tyne , inglid .
The anya is the ghatoon , the velsh smatll , jisse is filaa aor set in cardi .
the tabhi anya adhak remake of the dikha is kaa Shore , set in kaa , sepan .
sahi
sont raay territory is khoi extent of pradesh antra the chastar of the sanhhy sarkr of the sont raay , sahit all waters ( around ailedids or mapdii tracts ) aor seb u.s . naval bartan .
the United raay raai traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights liya exploring , exploiting , conserving , and monjing isko territory .
inse extent of territory is all the chartel belonging to , aor antra the dominnen of , the sont States sanhhy sarkr ( jisse shaml tracts lying at a ulhara from the desh ) liya prashan aor anya udshy .
the sont raay kool territory shaml a upcham of raaatic vinaan .
the u.S. government is a sarki with delegated powers antra the United raay swanhann .
`` the powers nahi prative to the sont States by the swanhann , nor nisha by it to the States , hain surkit to the raay crash , or to the logo '' by the Tenth Amendment .
tarmen 3 : vrdhi of the mashen ( commonly abbreviated as t3 ) is a 2003 vigaan fiction karve filli nishan by jutnn mostow and aubhin arndn swaaner , upna stahl , cleaner danes aor kristanna loken .
It is the duori sequel to the tarmen ( 1984 ) .
bada ckinent fails to kill saara connor before her bete is born aor to kill jaan kood as a chailad , it sends back another tarmen , the t-x , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance ahrochona as sansit .
inse shaml jaan 's future biwi , lackin nahi jaan himself as uske whereabouts hain unknown to ckinent .
John 's life is lagay in khatre jajb the t-x accidentally pata ussy .
A cord of lacdi
The cord is a kayi of mea of shusk aage prutt in kanda aor the sont raay to mea adhan aor pulpwood .
a cord is the rashi of lacdi kiya , jajb `` ranked aor khoo stowed '' ( arranged so tukde hain lakir , parallel , choo and kampatt ) , occupies a aage of .
This corresponds to a khoo stacked woodpile unche , long , aor gahne ; or khoi anya wasth of linear mea kiya yields the vahi aage .
the naam cord sansht aata isse the uppg of a cord or strining to mea it .
the , is an 8-bit handa veeo khel antar viksit aor manufactured by nento .
it thay released in japani on , in utar America in , aor in Europe on .
It is the pahla handa kano in the Game ladke lakir , aor thay nirm by gunpei Yokoi aor nento shadh & vikas 1 kaa vahi staff jau thaa designed the khel & dekhe series as khoo as anek popular games liya the nento entertainment System .
redesigned sankar yhoo released in 1996 and 1998 , in the roop of khel ladke jeyab , aor khel ladke layit ( japani tabhi ) , crash .
the khel ladke is nento 's duori handheld pralil following the khel & Watch shari introduced in , and it combined features isse dano the neeto entertainment praliy aor khel & dekhe .
it thay originally bundled saah the pahle khel teriir .
as bhag of the fourth generation of eeming , the khel ladke competed saah the sega khel gier , atari linnx , aor the turboexpress .
despite yaa anya technologically superior handa consoles , the khel ladke was a jwast kamay .
the Game ladke aor isko successor , the Game ladke ranga , have dano sonk bechi 118.69 million ikii worldwide .
Upon isko reezl in the sonte raay , it sold isko sunnr sipment of eke million ikii bhitr sapath .
the sanaar wapar bech is a jatl of imarte under nirman in Lower mahate , nayi yaak City , sont raay , replacing an pahlo complex of saat imatre saah the vahi naam on the vahi sayit .
the asli sanaar Trade bech prishit landrm juda minare , jisse khole on apryl 4 , 1973 aor were nasht in the sitabar 11 hamle of 2001 , saah saah 7 sanaar wapar bech .
the other imarte in the jatl yhood chustid in the hamle , and unko tabah yhoo hakar demolished .
the sayit is hona rebuilt saahh pach nayi skyscrapers and a memorial to those maare in the hamle .
, tabhi eke skyscraper raai marhu smapt ; the anya haar hain apeict to be smapt pahlo 2020 .
eke sanaar waar bech hoga be the seese bhann liya the new jatl , reaching adhek than 100 khanion at its purtna .
it became the tallest building in nayi York nuagar on apryl 30 , 2012 , aor is expected to be finished by 2013 .
a chate minar is awaiting pushi .
at the samay of unko purtna , the asli 1 World wapar bech ( the utar minar ) aor 2 sanaar Trade bech ( the dhasin minar ) , known collectively as the `` juda minare '' , were the tallest imatre in the sanaar .
the anya imarte included 3 wtc ( the marat sanaar wapar bech ) , 4 wtc , 5 wtc , 6 WTC , aor 7 wtc .
seb of yaa buildings yau nirm between 1975 aor 1985 .
the lagat liya the nirman was $ 400 million ( $ in doller ) .
the complex thay stith in the dila of nayi yar nuagar 's sharr vittiy district aor contained 13.4 lakho varar phit ( 1.24 lakho m2 ) of daftar sgec .
the sanaar wapar Center anvi a aag on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 aor a dakati on , 1998 .
in 1998 , the bardhoo phikar decided to privatize the sanaar wapar bech , patte the imarte to a neeji company to manje , aor awarded the patte to silverstein Properties in .
on the morning of sitabar 11 , 2001 , al-qaeda sandh hijackers udaya dho boining 767 jets into the jatl , eke into pratke minar , in a coordinated terrorist arman .
After burning liya 56 mintes , the dhasin minar ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour bada by the utar Tower ( 1 ) , saah the attacks on the sanaar wapar bech resulting in 2,753 mauto .
girna malba isse the towers , sont saahh faar kiya the malba initiated in anek surrounding imarte , led to the aanic or pura patan of seb the other imarte in the jatl and caused antrik khsti to teen other visal structures in the surrounding chartel .
the process of clepn aor recovery at the sanaar wapar bech sayit took arth mahino .
over the following years , plans for a rebuilt sanaar waar bech took roop .
the pahlo nayi bhann at the sayit thay 7 sanaar wapar bech , jisse khole in .
The nimnar minth Development nigm ( lmdc ) , sthtp in to oversee the punman pram , visth pritiyo to choone a sayit yagana and marrolor denain .
Memory Foundations , designed by deniyl libeskind , thay chant as the master yagana , lackin this went through substantial pravarin in denain .
the nayi World wapar bech complex will shaml eke sanaar wapar bech , tinn anya high-rise daftr minare , aor the National sitabar 11 marrolor & samaryll .
sein gibrill kyu
sein Bernardino kyu , saah mt . sein gorgonio in the agri and Big bhao jhel in the fushio .
the Transverse Ranges hain a smoh of pahad siemon of dhasinn cllnrinrifa , in the prast Coast siemon physiographic pradesh in utar America .
the Transverse sieman begin at the dhasiin smapt of the California Coast siemon and suth between santa barba aor San deego kanti .
vey derive the naam anpustt siemon due to unko east-west orientation , making unhe anpustt to the samay north-south orientation of sabse of cllnrinrifa 's coastal kyu .
aadick table with electron shewl
an electron shewl may be vichar of as an sasha followed by electrons around an ano 's cendrak .
the closest shewl to the cendrak is pukra the `` 1 shewl '' ( bhii pukra `` K shewl '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shewl '' ( or `` l shewl '' ) , tab the `` 3 shewl '' ( or `` m shewl '' ) , aor so on dhur aor dhur isse the cendrak .
The shewl ashrr K , l , m , ... , prutt in the X-ray santee , are alphabetical .
pratke shewl can contain tabhi a fixed cramak of electrons : the 1st shewl can thaam up to dho electrons , the 2nd shewl can hold up to eight electrons , the 3rd shell can tham up to 18 , aor 4th shewl can thaam up to 32 aor so on .
chunki electrons hain electrically achitt to the cendrak , an atom 's electrons hoga generally occupy outer shells tabhi if the adhek inner shewl have already marhu completely bhar by anya electrons .
however , inse is nahi a strict aakta : ano may have dho or bhii three incomplete bahari shewl .
( dekhi madelung niem liya adhek details . )
liya an sthatran of kyon electrons exist in yaa shewl dekhi ilarolitn configuration .
the electrons in the outermost occupied shewl ( or shewl ) determine the rasino gune of the ano ; it is pukra the valence shewl .
pratk shewl consists of eke or adhek subshells , and pratk subshell consists of one or adhek pamon orbitals .
vickie lynn marsha ( kaa hogne ; nambar 28 , 1967 kaa February 8 , 2007 ) , gyat by uske moniker anna nikal smith , thay an amri maal , aahiti , aor talvin personality .
smith pahlo gained laccariat in plable , banane the 1993 sannie of the saal .
She modeled for kapda compannon , sahit anda jins aor Lane brent .
Smith dropped aut of high sula and thay shadud in 1985 .
uske atdich publicized duori marriage to aal caaar mogul , J. Howard marsha , 62 xalo uske senior , resulted in atkele kiya dho married the octogenarian liya his dhan , jisse dho asvec .
following marsha 's moua , smith began a lengthy vidak battle over a share of uske aste .
uske mamla , marsha v. marsha , phonch the U.S. Supreme adalt on a sawal of sanhiy chastar , aor again on a question of dipana adalt phikar ( abhi pukra Stern v. marsha ) .
smith died on farr 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , flordar hotel ruom as a result of an overdose of nuska dawaon .
bhitr the phaila chaa months of uske jivan , smith thay the foss of a naciran dabae karve surrounding the mota of uske bete , denil , aor the paternity aor catdii batll over uske vanta bete , dannielynn .
the is eke denomination of japani yeen .
the varman denain was pahlo minted in 1959 using japani warna gyat as the `` nayi scrit `` , aor yaud bhii minted isse 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' japani warna .
Five-yen coins tithi to 1870 ( jajb , due to the much uchar maana of the yaan , they were minted in gold ) .
The samna of the sikka depicts a rice plant growing out of the jala , saah `` five yen '' lika in kanji ; the waps is stamped saah `` Japan '' aor the saal of smasya , bhii in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
the tinn grekic tatv of the sikka represent krshi aor fisheries , the key elements of the Japanese first-sector arvasha .
around a chade , vahi is a gear kiya represents udgo .
It is the tabhi japani coin in parnan to lack arbi numerals on either phans .
tlc is an amri ladki group jinke rangal spanned r & b , hip hoap , attm , funk , and nayi jack sula .
originally consisting of singer tionne `` T-Boz '' wataoman , rapper lisa `` baya nazar '' lopes aor singar rozonda `` chilli '' thamas , the smoh mila unprecedented kamay in the 1990s abki bhii enduring a shari of spats with the vidhi , pratk anya , aor the smoh 's rakar label .
initially , tlc hasil wyniik kama following the reelje of their debu ellam ooooooohhh ...
on the TLC teep , jisse bechi 6 lakho copies wisy .
However , it was unko duori album , crazysexycool , kiya catapulted the group to superstar akat .
crazysexycool gari on to be certified damn by the riaa kaa a first for a mada smoh , and hakar sold 23 lakho naal wisy .
Five xalo bada , the group released unko third ellam FanMail , jisse became the group 's first ellam to debut at cramak one aor bechi adhek than 11 lakho naal wisy .
the subsequent daura following FanMails release became the utcham grossing daura of seb time by a mada band .
in 2002 , lisa `` bayn nazar '' lopes died in a car durtan in hordus .
Seven months bada , t-boz and chilli released the smoh 's choth ellam 3d , jisse bechi 2 lakho naal wisy , it prishit unreleased vocals isse bayn nazar .
Billboard patricoa crem tlc as eke of the mataam musical trios .
between 1992 aor 2003 , the band sachin ten shers teen singles , haar cramak eke singles , haar multi-platinum ellam , aor haar grami pukar .
at the smapt of 1999 , tlc thay ranked as the satva sabse kamab act of the 1990s by Billboard .
in 2008 , the group thay inducted into the seb samay hot 100 clakar ghol of kitri by the vahi patricom , at 56th plale .
That year it thay bhii sadhh as the # 25 r & b/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 xalo .
tlc has bechi adhek than 65 lakho raadar worldwide and they hain crem as the second behatin selling mada smoh of seb samay , aor the behtan selling mada r & B smoh of seb samay .
in 2012 , tlc crem 12th on vh1 's 100 mataam malao in muc , hona crem the cramak one seb ladke smoh on kiya suchi .
Tarzan is a 1999 amri aneemed adherer filli idtit by Walt dijne visha anmichin aor vitra by walte dijne satve .
the 37th filli in the walte dijnne anaemed Classics , it is aarat on the stori tarjan of the apes by adgar Rice baroj , and is the tabhi prmukh gati hitrr sankan of the stori tarjan prapti to be animated .
Directed by Chris buck aor Kevin Lima saah a patha by tab Murphy , bob tzudiker , aor noni swath , tarjan shuvien the aave of Tony Goldwyn , minnie Driver , Glenn bandh , aor rogi o'donnell with braan dhan , talar henriksen , vena natt , and nigal hawthorne .
it was the last bona fide hit pahlo the dijne slump of the jaldi 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically aor $ 448,191,819 wipsy , outgrossing isko purtive hercules ( 1997 ) aor mulan ( 1998 ) .
at the time of isko reezl , isko utpann baje of $ 130 million made it the sabse expensive anaemed filli ever bana , aabak awal by dijne 's apna $ 140 lakho khazana graha in 2002 .
It thay bhii the pahlo dijne anaemed visha to khole at # 1 chunki Pocahontas .
inse thay the pichla prmuk box daftar kamay of the digne purna .
aala moch p-51 bandh the brayiy coast is a semi-submersible mach .
aal moch mittelplate in the utar smadra
an aala mach , ( offshore mach or colloquially aal rega ) is a large structure with suvithon to drrlil kuon , to extract aor prakm oil aor pratic giss , and to temporarily store utp aabak it can be brought to shore liya shadn aor wipan .
in anek mamle , the moch contains suvithon to haas the workforce as well .
depending on the circumstances , the moch may be fixed to the smander floor , may consist of an crutrim island , or may flache .
rimat subsea wells may bhii be connected to a moch by prava lanoone aor by umbilical konnsocs .
yaa subsea saaaan may consist of eke or adhek subsea kuon , or of eke or adhek manifold ceero liya anek wells .
dha is the hatya of pesu , praha kiya of rerlul phudnn liya khana .
the pesu sabse commonly slaughtered liya khana hain cattle , jala bhains ( liya beef aor vila ) , seep , barkin ( liya mamne aor mutton ) , suar ( for pork ) , horses ( liya ghoda maans ) , aor fowl , largely moroon , turkeys , and batho aor increasingly fish isse the aquaculture udgo ( machli khati ) .
the swath House , the addhs 's adhak nivas aor center of the prashan
antra the United raay swanhann , the addhs of the sont raay is the sair of raay aor head of sarki of the sont raay .
as mukhy of the kariiaa shokh aor sair of the sanhiyn sarki as a whole , the presidency is the utcham raaatic daftar in the sont raay by influence aor manta .
the addhs is bhii the commander-in-chief of the United States haraad shatiya .
the addhs is indirectly nicv to a four-year pada by an Electoral kalage ( or by the House of prtthin should the choni kalage asal to pukar an nersp bhuut of votes to khoi person ) .
chunki the ratification of the Twenty-second amendment to the United raay swanhann in 1951 , no witt may be nicv addhs adhek than twice , aor no eke jau raai parosa adhek than dho years of a pada to jisse kisi else was nicv may be nicv more than akar .
upon the death , resignation , or hatna isse daftr of an lajim addhs , the vaisa addhs assumes the daftar .
the addhs jarur be at tanik 35 xalo of aoo aor a `` natural born '' nagric of the sont raay .
inse suchi shaml tabhi those wantoon jau were sworn into daftr as addhs following the autaan of the sonte raay swanhann , jisse took praaav on kuch 4 , 1789 .
liya amri netoo pahlo inse autaan , dekhi addhs of the mapadi corgens .
the suchi kurta nahi include khoi ectiting rastyoo antra the twenty-fifth amendment to the sont raay swanhann .
vahi have been 43 logo sworn into daftar , aor 44 presidencies , as grover clovedd parosa dho non-consecutive sharte aor is ginne khraada as dano the 22nd and 24th addhs .
of the individuals nicrm as president , haar died in daftar of pratic kanari ( vilau hanri harsion , zachary tell , varvan G. Harding , and froniin D. rujtvel ) , haar you assassinated ( abram Lincoln , jems A. fardelf , levau McKinley , and John F. kende ) aor eke resigned ( rihard Nixon ) .
zarg vashitnn , the pahlo president , was adatan in 1789 bada a sarvat vote of the choni kalag .
levau Henry harnic karhh the shortest samay in office saah 32 days in 1841 , aor frnchil D. rujvelt karah the longest saah over barah xalo , lackin died shortly into uske choth pada in 1945 .
he is the tabhi addhs to serve more than dho terms , aor a swankh amendment , affecting rastyo bada hairi trom , was passed to seema the cramak of tammis an wiqtit can be nicv addhs .
Andrew Jackson , the satva addhs , was the pahlo to be nicv by meen of seb varg in 1828 bada sabse laws barring non-land-owners isse matan were repealed .
varven Harding thay the first nicv after mahlo gained matan adhero in 1920 .
ithes rikar haar rastyoo kaa jaan q adms , rardod B. haze , bennnn harsion aor George W. boosh kaa who lost the popular vote laciin assumed daftar .
jaan F. kende raai marhu the tabhi addhs of roman Catholic asta , aor the varman addhs , barak uba , is the first president of afri descent .
Several firearms saah detachable suppressors , isse shers to niche : an uzi , an AR-15 , a heckler & koch khast rentik , a Beretta 92fs , aor a SIG mahhar .
bolt karve rimfire rail saahh suppressor
awm-f snipir rail with salaan suppressor .
a suppressor , sound suppressor , or dhani mattrr , is a antar salaan to or part of the barul of a firearm jisse reduces the amount of noise , aor praha the rashi of muzzle flach , utna by faaring the hathir .
A suppressor can be prutt dano with a firearm aor saah compressed air gun .
halki it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , inse pada is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the dhani of a prash , vishar eke moving faster than the gati of dhani , through the aeyr can nahi be eliminated .
using a suppressor in long ulha suthing ( i.e . vrh than 300 mitr ) can lessen , or retard , the prat at the paal of praaav , aor create the chhap of khasi near the nisha .
the rarv sona near the muzzle as a projectile pette the barul , halki subdued , is nahi muk at seb .
a suppressor is usually a matll belan with internal mechanisms to reduce the dhani of faarin by slowing the escaping propellant gass aor sometimes by reducing the gati of the goli .
jaldi suppressors yhood nirm around the shurt of the 20th sadi by anek inventors .
amri aarika Hiram prssi khat ( nahi to be ulna saah hiram Stevens khat , hiram prssi 's pita , aor the aarika of the khat antar ganne ) , is credited saah inventing and selling the first commercially successful maal circa 1902 ( patented 30 kuch 1909 ) .
khat diya uske antar the trademarked naam Maxim silencer .
the mafar liya atric dhan injan was developed in smantar with the firearm suppressor by khat in the jaldi 20th sadi , using anek of the vahi catcoon to provide quieter-running injan ( in anek uoriyp deso atmolo mufflers hain sthil pukra silencers ) .
The word silencer in sandhr to ganne suppressor remains in widespread upag , halic it raai chunki girr aut of hasan saahh kuch , especially among the firearms udgo , hona replaced saah the adhek vasth steek term dhani suppressor or baae suppressor , cuyi a `` dhani suppressor '' kurta nahi `` khasi '' khoi hathir , blki it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonk dawao of a firearm discharging .
aam upag aor U.S. vidan language hasan the historically pahlo pada , silencer .
In u.S. vidhi , the sharte `` firearm mafar '' and `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous .
suppressors yau regularly prutt by agents of the sont raay daftar of rentic Services , jau favored the newly designed unche Standard HDM .22 long rail pistl dauran sanaar hudd ii .
OSS nidsk vilau jasse `` genle dheek '' Donovan demonstrated the pistl liya addhs frnchil D. rujvelt at the swath haas .
According to OSS shadh chief sthil lovle , doon ( an budha aor trusted dost of the President ) was harra into the owal daftr , jaha rujvelt thay dictating a ashrr .
While rujvelt smapt uske sansee , doon turned uske waps aor fired teen gilo into a sandbag he had brought saah ussy , hogti kaya he had kiya aor haat the dhorpan gaane to the astonished addhs .
the British soe ( khaas purahla kariiaa ) welrod hatya pistl saah an ahin suppressor thay bhii prutt by the amri oss on clandestine purahla in naji occupied uoriyp dauran the duori sanaar hudd .
beatrice `` bea '' arthr ( May 13 , 1922 kaa apryl 25 , 2009 ) thay an amri aahit , comedienne , aor singar whose career spanned saat saako .
arthr hasil kitri as the ashrr Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms seb in the privar aor maude , aor as dorth Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom the suhrr ladkoyan , jitna Emmy pukrar liya dano bioan .
A stes aahiti dano pahlo aor bada her telvin kama , dho jeet the toni pukra liya Best prishit Actress in a musical liya uske prashan as verr Charles in the asli cast of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3d computer-animated filli aarat on the tekken veeo khel shari , utpid by dital frontier aor vitra by asmik ikka entertainment in samnh saah Bandai entertainment .
the film premiered in North amrraa by bandai entertainment on julaya 26 , 2011 , aor in Australia on juli 27 , 2011 in a khaas vish one-off seringing .
it thay released on sitabar 3 , 2011 in japani .
the filli thay released on blu-ray diskk on November 22 , 2011 liya yusi , aor dismar 1 , 2011 liya japani .
inse filli thay bhii released on dvd on nambar 22 , 2011 ( 2d sankan tabhi ) .
the film thay additionally shaml saah the paatten 3 game , tekken sankar , aor the nento 3DS sherak , tekken 3d : Prime Edition .
liya a chara of nonprofit , voluntary paros kakalt smoh , dekhi paros samnh .
In the sont raay , a homeowner samnh is a nigm formed by a riyll aste dever for the purpose of wipan , managing , aor selling of ghero aor laut in a aavis subdivision .
It andan the dever vishar matan rights in governing the samnh , abki allowing the devar to nikas financial aor legal jimar of the organization , typically by transferring swatt of the samnh to the homeowners bada selling bandh a predetermined cramak of lots .
sasta in the homeowners samnh by a residential buyer is typically a condition of purchase ; a khadar is n't diye an kilk to asvec it .
Most homeowner assionn hain incorporated , aor are vish to raay statutes kiya govern non-profit corporations aor homeowner associations .
raay oversight of homeowner assionnnn is minimal , aor mainly takes the roop of kanun jisse hain asagt isse state to raay .
Some raay , aisa as flordar aor cllaronri , have a visal deh of homeowner samnh vidhi , aor kuch raay , aisa as muccous , have vasth no homeowner samnh vidhi .
the tivram growing roop of vaaas in the United raay today is common-interest developments ( cids ) , a shari kiya shaml planned-unit developments of single-family ghero , condominiums , aor cooperative armeten .
chunki 1964 , homeowner assionn have become increasingly aam in the yusy .
the Community Associations santhan wapar samnh anaut kiya hoas governed 24.8 lakho amri ghero aor 62 lakho neecovan in 2010 .
a prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
vahi hain anek breeds of gine pig jisse have been viksit since its domestication ca . 5000 bc .
breeds vary widely in roop and purpose , ranging isse dikha breeds saah long , bahti iball to those in uppg as maal organisms by vigaan .
isse ca . 1200 ad to the sspnn conquest of the Inca samry in 1532 , thanak breeding by swasi dhasin amri peoples resulted in many kismo of domestic ginne suar , jisse roop the adhar liya kuch of the adhuok domestic breeds .
jaldi andean breeds were primarily rakha as agricultural bhandar for khana , aor pratan at improving the gine suar as a khana corse continue to the adhunk era .
saahh the export of gine suor to uoripy in the 15th sadi , the lashy in pranan shifted to foss on the development of appealing paltu .
To inse smapt , vinnin prashi pranan organizations yau founded by fanciers .
the American cavy Breeders samnh , an adjunct to the amri ragosh pranaak samnh , is the shasi deh in the sont raay aor Canada .
the angove cavy prashad governs cavy clab in the sont kidam .
saaman santhan mood in altrtara ( altriae nasal cavy prashad ) and nayi Zealand ( nayi jiland Cavy cloo ) .
pratke cloo publishes its apna maank of purtna aor determines jisse breeds hain eligible for prish .
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st sadi .
Though vahi hain anek breeds of ginne pig , tabhi a few breeds hain commonly mila on the show talac as paltu .
sabse ginne suor mila as paltu yhoo either mila anchin by praaank or yhoo karva to be sukh paltu regardless of kasa khoo vey mile the nsal standard of purtn .
the choti iball , Abyssinian , Peruvian aor sheltie ( aka silkie ) breeds hain those most asar seen as paltu , aor the former tinn hain the core breeds in the ithes of the prishi showing of ginne suor .
In jod to unko maank roop , nearly all breeds aiye in a satan tupaat .
Satins , due to unko khola hair shafts , possess coats of a special gloss aor chaak .
however , vahi is growing pram kiya the jeeno jimer for the satan kote bhii can cause kathor asthi smasye , including osteodystrophy aor peete 's bimar .
prish Satin variations is nishad by kuch cavy pranak ' associations cumi of inmell welfare karna .
All cavy breeds have kuch saza samay manko : the sair prafileu chahe be rounded , with visal aakhe aor visal , chikna kano .
the deh chahe be madar aor of kampett build .
kote colour chahi in seb visaan be clearly defined and thorough isse root to tep .
yaa manko hain behtan mila by long sthtp , commonly karva breeds , as unko praaak have thaa prapt time aor animals to effectively nsal liya yaa qualities .
the kote ranga adesh of shoh paraha and thoroughness is rarely mila by anya than the smooth coated breeds , jisse have thaa khoo sthpt , prath pranan lanoone for alag ranga .
raay schools ( also gyat as palcie sulcoon or sarki slooo ) generally refer to prathak or dwitek sulcoon mandated liya or offered to seb children bagar charge shusl liya , in purre or in bhag , by karaan .
the term may also refer to institutions of post-secondary siksh vitti , in purre or in bhag , aor overseen by sarki .
the ribosome assembles polymeric protein aoon jinke anuom is nintr by the anurm of maxar rna aoon .
inse is jarri by seb jeena koyie aor sandh vaisar .
the ramoo ( isse ribonucleic esid aor the Greek soma , arth `` body '' ) is a visal aor jatl ann antar , found bhitr seb jeena komiie , kiya serves as the prathak sayit of biological protin salnshen ( andad ) .
ribosomes link amino acids saahh in the order nirt by maxan RNA ( mrna ) aoon .
ribosomes consist of two prmukh kaa choti ribosomal subunit reads the mrna , abki the large subunit joins amnoo acids to roop a polypeptide kadi .
pratke subunit is rchit of eke or more ribosomal rna ( rrna ) aoon and a kismo of protin .
the anuom of diyne ancoiin liya a protin may be kalpi many times into messenger rna ( mrna ) ganjor of a saaman anurm .
ribosomes can bind to an mrna kadi aor upag it as a metlet liya determining the sahi sequence of amnio acids in a particular protin .
amnio acids hain selected , ekrtt and carried to the ramoo by taraf rna ( trna aoon ) , jisse enter eke bhag of the ribosome aor bind to the maxar RNA chain .
the salaan amino acids hain tab linked together by another part of the ramoo .
akar the protein is idpit , it can taba 'fold ' to upaj a vishit tarmak three-dimensional dhana .
a ramoo is bana isse dewal of rnas and protin aor is isli a ribonucleoprotein .
pratok ramoo is viat into dho subunits : the choti subunit bantaa to the mrna pattern , abki the larger subunit bantaa to the trna aor the amnio acids .
jajb a ramoo finishes padna an mrna ano , yaa two subunits split alawa .
ribosomes hain ribozymes , chy the catalytic peptidyl transferase kalp kiya kadi amnio acids saah is performed by the ribosomal rna .
ribosomes isse jivon , arkiya and eukaryotes ( the tinn domen of jivan on darti ) differ in unko akar , sequence , dhana , aor the anpat of protin to rna .
the matde in dacha allow kuch atacbion to maar bacteria by inhibiting unko ribosomes , while leaving insan ribosomes unaffected .
in bacteria aor archaea , adhek than eke ramoo may mowa saah a singl mrna kadi at one time , pratke `` padna '' its anurm aor producing a samnin protin ano .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic koyie functionally resemble anek shuvian of those in bacteria , reflecting the sansit visii utti of mitochondria .
alar kladd , isyi de Duve , aor zarg amli palade yhoo jointly awarded the noole Prize in physiology or arraiin , in 1974 , liya the diske of the ribosomes .
the noolel pukar in rasan 2009 thay awarded to venkatraman ramanh , Thomas A. steitz aor aidi E. yonath liya determining the vista dhana aor yatrin of the ramoo .
The sarrc atric dhana of a chloroplast
awako of the calvin saal aor karbann fixation
the light-independent pration of photosynthesis hain rasino pration that badle karbann dasioi aor anya yogk into glokk .
yaa reactions occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a therala bahar of the thylakoid lillo .
yaa reactions louo the light-dependent pration aor perform further chemical prinion on unhe .
There hain tinn phases to the light-independent prition , collectively pukra the calvin saylk : karbann fixation , katate pration , aor ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( rubp ) regeneration .
despite isko naam , this prakm occurs only jaj layit is apaalan .
Plants do nahi carry aut the calvin saal by ratri .
vey , instead , release sucrose into the flummeu isse unko starch reserves .
inse prakm happens jajb layit is apaalan independent of the dyalu of photosynthesis ( C3 karbann fixation , C4 karbann fixation , aor crassulacean asid chaye ) ; kamo plants store malic esid in unko vacuoles pratok ratri aor reezl it by day in anurm to meke this pram karya .
In ganit , a square cramak or purna square is an purnk kiya is the square of an purnk ; in anya words , it is the utp of kuch purnk saah itself .
liya udarnn , 9 is a vargar cramak , since it can be lika as .
the usual notation liya the suthra liya the varar of a cramak is nahi the utp , laciin the smatll ghaaak , praha suna as `` squared '' .
the naam square cramak aata isse the naam of the akar ; dekhi niche .
varar sakhnn hain non-negative .
another rasta of saying kiya a ( non-negative ) number is a vargar cramak , is kiya isko vargar jadey hain again integers .
liya udarnn , = kaa , so 9 is a varar cramak .
a dhantak purnk kiya raai no purna square divisors magar 1 is pukra square-free .
liya a non-negative purnk , the th varar cramak is , saah hona the zeroth varar .
The ahdra of varar can be vistar to kuch anya cramak systems .
If trant sakhnn hain shaml , taba a vargar is the anpat of dho varar integers , aor , conversely , the anpat of dho square integers is a varar ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
starting with 1 , vahi hain varar numbers up to aor sahit , jaha the abkit represents the floor of the cramak .
The Era of shoh jambat hinnt a kala in the raaatic ithas of the sonk States kiya reflected a chav of national purpose aor a khish liya ekta among amrie in the aftermath of the Napoleonic yddonn .
the era saw the patan of the federalist Party aor an smapt to the kadwa dlaat vivad between it aor the prabpll democratic-republican party dauran the First parti pralil .
President jems Monroe endeavored to downplay dlaat sandh in banana uske nominations , saah the ultimate lashy of national ekta aor eliminating partiyo altogether isse nasal rajantie .
the kala is so closely associated saah muroo 's prissi ( kaa ) aor his prashan goals kiya his naam aor the era hain vasth synonymous .
the era of shoh jambat hinnt a pravatin in amri rajanti saah the end of the federalist parti as amria began to develop bada the hudd of 1812 .
abki amriaa thay experiencing vikas and prosperity bada the hudd saah Britain , inse era bhii marks the first udarnn of arthec parachon in the growing United raay .
mirroring the American pralil prastv by hanir mitti , protective tariffs aor the chartering of the duori Bank of the sont raay jatl the tension between the utar aor South saah the coming of the pahlo vittiy crisis .
abki the pada kaa of Good kaa is praha viewed saah irony cumi of the raaatic turmoil , arthec caron caused animosity between the utar aor dhasin .
the naman of the kala by itraoo as eke of kaa kaa is praha conveyed saah irony or skepticism , as the ithes of the era was eke in jisse the raaatic mahlo thay strained aor divisive , vishar among gira within the munro prashan aor the Republican parti .
the phrase kaa of shoh kaa thay coined by Benjamin rasll , in the Boston federalist maatr , columbian Centinel , on July 12 , 1817 , following muroo 's visit to bostan , muccoss as bhag of uske shoh hoga tour of amriaa .
mariel Margaret `` miya '' hamm ( born kuch 17 , 1972 ) is a riated amri professional soccer player .
hamm niya many years as a aage for the sonk raay malaon 's nashl sokar toli aor thay a founding saaa of the vashitn swatta .
Hamm scored 158 anthriy goals , adhek than khoi anya khili , pursh or maada , in the history of sokar and is the third sabse capped female player in sokar ithes behind kristine lili aor cristit rampone , appearing in 275 anthriy milane .
hamm thay namit the mahlo 's phfa sanaar khili of the saal the first dho tammis kiya pukra thay diye ( in 2001 aor 2002 ) , aor is sudhh as eke of FIFA 's 125 behatin jeena khili ( as chuni by kaa ) .
dho was inducted into the National sokar ghol of kitri as khoo as the alama khel ghol of Fame and tecas khel ghol of kitri .
dho is the lakkk of go liya the lashy : a chainn 's Guide to Winning in Soccer aor jivan aor appeared in the echoom documentary himat to sapna : the stori of the u.S. mahlo 's sokar toli .
vashitn posti columnist maical wilbon pukra hamm , `` shaad the most marhan khili of the pichla 15 xalo . ''
hamm takes a kone laata .
the nayi yar redd bulls is an amri professional sokar team based in harsion , nayi jarsi , representing the nayi yaak mahag chartel .
the toli competes in the Eastern smalne of prmuk League sokar ( mls ) .
It is eke of the teen chatr clubs of mls , having competed in the ling chunki isko inception .
the team thay a founding sasy of mls ( 1996 ) , but has gayi through anek naam changes .
the team was originally gyat as the New york/new jarsi metrostars through 1997 .
From the 1998 ritu through the 2005 ritu , the toli thay known as the metrostars .
on kuch 9 , 2006 , the toli thay bechi to redd sand gmbh , agri to the toli 's varman naam .
vey hain the tabhi asli mls mathar nahi to have jeet any significant trofi ( sahit nimat ritu , playoffs , aor noat pritiyo ) chunki inception .
the toli 's behatin prinamin in the mls was the mls khap phaila in 2008 .
in the us khole khap , the MetroStars phonch tinn semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , pahlo reaching unko pahlo final in 2003 , khone kaa to the shego Fire .
on August 26 , 2000 , the Metros ' cllit mathis niyat an mls rekar by scoring five goals in a khel virdh the dalas barna .
kuch well-known khili kiya have niya liya the toli shaml giovanni savarese , timat hard , toni meola , Tab ramos , alexi lalas , cletin mathis , jozy altidore , maical Bradley , Claudio reyna , aidi Pope , rabtot donadoni , lothar kaa , aafoo valasy , youri djorkaeff , amado ganra , juon pallo kaa , thierry hanir , Juninho pernambucano , jean gunar solli , rafal maase , aor timat kahil .
the toli has bhii had well-known kuch , sahit carlos queiroz , carlos alurto parreira , bura kaa , Bob bradli , mo johnston , bross arana aor Hans Backe .
confucianism , Taoism , and buddhism hain eke , a penting in the litang sthali portraying tinn men hans by a nadi strim , 12th sadi , Song ravash .
estimating the cramak of badho in the sanaar , or in many countries , is difficult due to definitional mudde as khoo as warik samnsy of enumeration .
To shoru with , the dharm matton , practices , and pahan of istt ashiya ( jau comprise the majority of the sanaar 's baddo by khoi mea ) praha mishri buddhism saahh anya paraon sahit confucianism , the chaizin lauk dharm , daoism , shinto , aor korri shamanism .
sabse ankura of buddhism do nahi belong to curnint congregations , or observe a definite autunn of adherence aisa as lene sharn , making it muskl to accurately anman the number of practitioners .
an additional chonti is the dusmin of several nashl governments ( often connit ones aisa as chhin or utar korri ) to dharm generally or to buddhism specifically .
sarki netooon in yaa deso may pritit the under-reporting or non-reporting of dharm adherence , resulting in adhak yug kiya may drastically underestimate the cramak of dharm practitioners in these deso .
anaman of the wisy baddh yankise daura isse 350 lakho to over eke arab , lackin cletser nearer to the pahlo pigar .
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 lakho .
by major shaam , the sakhnn hain as follows:
( 1 ) mahana buddhism , sahit East asyy buddhism , saah no kaam than 185 lakho adherents , and sansht anek tammis kiya anek ( again , depending on definitional mudde ) .
inse is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in chhin , dhasin korri , japani , taava , sanpar , aor Vietnam .
( 2 ) thrvad buddhism , with no kaam than 125 lakho adherents .
inse is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in candada , thaldh , Laos , shari lanka , aor Burma .
( 3 ) jarva Buddhism , with lagch 20 lakho adherents .
inse roop predominates in the vrh tibbi aor Mongolian regions , as well as in the himle .
besides the swatt deso of magol and Bhutan , aor vinnin territories within kaya is abhi western chhin , jarva is pragat to nisht regions of roos ( e.g . kalaicam , burti ) , India ( e.g . ladkh , sikk ) , and Nepal ( e.g . khumbu ) .
jaran , bhii known as tibbi buddhism , is praha conflated saahh tantink buddhism , lackin inse is imprecise , as shingon and other form of istt asyy Buddhism bhii aaaas tantra .
At tanik 7 deso ( shari lanka , thaldh , candamaa , laaos , barma , bhutan , aor magol ) have unambiguous baddh majorities .
depending on kasa eke calculates Chinese aor anya istt asyy adherents , inse pigar might vistar to shaml anek adhek deso .
in jod , Buddhism is the state dharm of candamaa aor bhutan , aor receives prominent zikr in the constitutions of thaldh aor shari lanka .
In northern indiya aor Nepal , the jamin jaha buddhism thay born , the dharm severely asvec dauran the pahlo milam .
whether inse manahi thay due to the isla conquest of utare india , or to anya caron , remains controversial .
dekhi the aleh manhi of buddhism in India .
James baller hickok ( may 27 , 1837 kaa agst 2 , 1876 ) , behtar gyat as genle dheek hickok , thay a lauk naic of the amri budha West .
uske koshl as a gunfighter aor skat , along saahh uske pratha as a lawman , provided the basis for uske fame , halki kuch of uske reported exploits are fictionalized .
born and utha on a farm in rural Illinois , hickok gari vaste at aoo 18 as a fugitive isse justice , pahlo working as a stagecoach dravrr , pahlo he became a lawman in the frontier territories of kansans aor nabra .
he fought liya the samnh foaj dauran the amri sewal War , aor gained publicity bada the war as a scout , marksman , karta , and professional juoir .
between uske law-enforcement karva aor juye , jisse easily overlapped , hickok was involved in anek notable shootouts .
he thay shot and maare abki playing pokar in the nuttal & Mann 's sellon in deadwood , Dakota territory ( abhi dhasin kata ) .
clakar 's conception of the jigsa rover vaporizing chatan on mangl .
the rover landed on magal in agst 2012 .
a mangl rover is an swalth motor gadi jisse propels itself aar the surface of the graha mangl bada landing .
roves have anek advantages over stationary landers : vey jache adhek territory , vey can be nisdh to dilap features , vey can plale themselves in sunny positions to masam shit mahino aor vey can agrrm the gyann of kasa to perform bhoot rimat rotbic gadi control .
vahi have been haar kamab robotically sanhlit mangl roves .
the Jet nodn Laboratory pranh the Mars pathfinder mishan aor isko abhi niskh sojourner rover .
it filal manages the mangl khoje rover mishan 's crisyol asar rover and niskh spiet , aor , as part of the magal vigaan prasala mishan , the jigsa rover .
a vittiy aedit , or adhek accurately , an aedit of vittiy kathan , is the satan of the vittiy kathan of a vidak antii , with a drasy to express an adit raai .
the audit raai is intended to provide reasonable assurance , lackin nahi ners prakh , kiya the financial kathan hain presented fairly , in seb samri respects , and/or deya a sacha and maila dras in accordance saah the vittiy roptoning ferm .
the purpose of an audit is provide aor udshy swaat praksa of the vittiy kathan , jisse increases the maana and vistan of the financial kathan produced by prabhann , yaun badan upata visaa in the vittiy bayan , reduce nikkon rarsk aor natane reduce the lagat of punje of the preparer of the vittiy kathan .
vittiy audits hain typically performed by firms of practicing khal jau hain visha in vitai roptotin .
the vitti aedit is eke of anek parkh crytoyan provided by hisab firms .
Many santhan separately employ or hire internal auditors , jau do nahi attest to vitti ripatas but focus mukth on the atric nitran of the organization .
baha auditors may choone to plale simit rilans on the karya of atric auditors .
auditing promotes parsa aor sota in the vitti disclosures bana by an saathan , isle hota sansit to reduce of aisa corporations to chipat unscrupulous dealings .
internationally , the anthriy Standards on auditing ( isa ) gari by the International Auditing aor parkh manko falak ( iaasb ) is considered as the benchmark liya audit prakm .
lagch seb jurisdictions require auditors to follow the isa or a laol vinna of the isa .
Dollar sikke have marhu minted in the sont raay in sunra , candi , aor base metal sankan .
The pada candi doller is praha prutt liya khoi visal swath metal coin issued by the sont States saahh a phans maana of eke doller , although purists zidd that a doller is not silver unless it contains kuch of kiya matll .
candi doller , the pahlo doller sikka smasya , yhood minted shurt in 1794 .
sunhar doller and gold-colored doller have also marhu idpit by the sont raay .
the sacagawea aor addhisya doller hain praha referred to as `` suhrr doller '' .
in adhuok tamiam , doller sikke have nahi marhu bhoot lercoria in the sont raay .
Despite efforts by the sarki to prahr unko uppg , most amrie fihal upag the eke dollar dheeek blki than doller sikke .
in sidha aor sthrr flight lifti ( l ) barai weight ( W ) .
in a banked farr of kaa , lifti barai dono the wazan ( l=2w ) .
The palte experiences 2g aor a doubled weight .
the steeper the banko , the vrah the g-forces .
inse top-fuel dragster can accelerate isse shon to in 0.86 senda .
This is a aada twarn of 5.3 g. sont saah the lantov g-force in the stationary mamla the pythagorean prmme yields a g fors of 5.4 g .
g-force ( saah g isse gurakh ) is a term liya accelerations felt as weight aor measurable by accelerometers .
it is not a force , per se , but a force prti kayi mass .
chunki aisa a fors is aaaas as a wazan , khoi g-force can be varnn as a `` wazan per unit mass '' ( dekhi the parya specific wazan ) .
the g-force twan adhiomon as a gunk of weight-like shatiyan for every kayi of an object 's draman , and ( shej liya nisht elarctitinn fors praaav ) is the karna of an aakt 's twarn in relation to free-fall .
inse twarn experienced by an aakt is due to the vaktor sum of non-gravitational shatiya ectiting on an aakt jhri to mowa .
the accelerations kiya hain nahi idtit by gharta are termed uchat accelerations , aor it is only yaa that are measured in g-force ikii .
vey cause stresses aor strains on seste .
Because of yaa strains , visal g-forces may be destructive .
gravitation ectiting alonn kurta nahi upaj a g-force , bhii though g-forces are expressed in multiples of the twann of a maank gartta .
yaun , the maank gurakhs twarn at the darti 's surface produces g-force tabhi indirectly , as a result of prithor to it by mechanical shatiya .
the 1 g-force on an object bete on the darti 's satah is caused by mechanical fors exerted in the upward disha by the ground , keeping the aakt isse going into free-fall .
the upward force isse the maidan ensures kiya an aakt at rest on the darti 's satah is accelerating seps to the free-fall condition , jisse is the paath that the aakt hota follow jajb falling freely toward the darti 's bech .
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory antra the influence of gravitation-only , mahus no g-force .
inse is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' sharte ander a freely girna elevator girna toward the Earth 's bech ( in kauk ) , or ( to good sunnic ) sharte ander a spacecraft in darti orbit .
yaa hain udarnn of nerakh twarn ( a badle in gati ) bagar a sensation of wazan .
the anu of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is idpit , is synonymous saahh weightlessness .
in the aunsity of gurakh fillad , or in dishin at sahi kaun to them , proper aor nerakh accelerations hain the same , aor any nerakh twarn jarur be idpitt by a samnin g-force twarn .
an example yahan is a rocket in jhri seep , in which saral pravatin in gati hain idpit by the injan , and upaj g-forces on the prasta aor yatri .
an augur pakaar a lituus , the curved wand praha prutt as a pretik of augury on Roman sikke
the augur was a pujari aor adhak in the sastir sanaar , vishar prahin Rome aor etruria .
uske prmuk bumk thay to interpret the will of the devat by adhn the flight of pashyon : whether vey hain udte in smoh or alone , what noises vey meke as they makhi , disha of udan aor kaya dalu of pashyon vey hain .
inse thay gyat as `` taking the auspices . ''
the rasm and jalne of the augur thay contrl to khoi prmuk undertaking in Roman kaa or kaa matters of hudd , comsar , and dharm .
The roman itaara livy tanoo the mattw of the augurs : `` jau kurta nahi jaan kiya this nuagar was sapit only bada lene the auspices , kiya subk in hudd aor in peace , at home aor abroad , thay kiya tabhi bada lene the auspices ? ''
Farmington phaan is an affluent community in southeastern Michigan .
it is the duori largest nuagar in Oakland kanti in the U.S. raay of Michigan .
isko yankiti thay 79,740 at the 2010 yankiti .
it is bhag of the upscale northwestern suburbs of mahag detr aor is bhii puotar of shar Ann arbor .
farmington Hills consistently badhane as eke of the safest sharmo in the sont States , as well as in the raay of mixangn .
in 2010 , the area crem as the 30th safest city in amrraa .
Although the two cities have prath sevan aor pata , farmington aor farmington phaan hain praha thought of as the vahi jatio .
shuvien of the community shaml a recently swar downtown , boutiques , a ventejed seema , numerous rastan , exotic car dealerships , wart galri , aor public paak sahit virta paak .
vahi hain anek ataic sait sahit the Longacre haas aor the rajal warner mansion .
Both cities hain parosa by farmington Public sulcoon .
Farmington phaan serves as a prmukh caaar bech for the vrah detr area .
present-day chhap of a latt kansyan aoo seal
casa muhr ( matrix ) of kaa isse 1570
A muhrr is a device liya banana an chhap in mamo , mitti , pepar , or kuch anya medium , sahit an embossment on pepar , aor is bhii the chhap yaun bana .
the asli purpose thay to authenticate a dastav , a wrapper liya one aisa as a modern lifa , or the cover of a saahak or package pakaar valuables or anya seste .
the sealing pram is essentially kiya of a mould , saahh the phaila hitra represented on the antar for banana the chhap by a mirror-image denain , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) rahta or intaglio .
the seal-making antar is bhii referred to as the muhr mentric or die ; the imprint it creates as the muhrr chhap ( or , adhek rarely , the sealing ) .
if the impression is made purely as a rahta resulting isse the vrh pressure on the pepar jaha the unchi bhag of the mentric tach , the seal is gyat as a dry muhr ; in seb anya mamle a draw or liquified media ( aisa as ink or mamo ) is prutt , praha in another ranga than the pepar .
liya vidak udshy , the prahaa of a seal may be vistar to include rubber stamps , or likhe nirt sabd ( `` seal '' or `` l.s . `` ) .
in the sont raay , the word `` seal '' is sometimes abnit to a facsimile of the seal denain ( in marom or color ) , jisse may be prutt in a kismo of contexts sahit architectural jamte , on dwag , or on adhak letterheads .
yaun , for udarnn , the gree Seal of the sont raay , among anya uses , appears on the rivar of the one-dollar dheeek ; aor anek of the seals of the U.S. states appear on unko respective raay flags .
in uoripy , halik coats of bahe aor heraldic badges may khoo visha in aisa contexts as khoo as on seals , the seal denain in isko entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
the padhi of seals is gyat as sigillography or sphragistics .
Groundhog dena ( penalaiia jarmin : grundsaudaag , murmeltiertag ) is a dena celebrated on farr 2 .
according to folklore , if it is cloudy jajb a groundhog emerges isse isko burrow on inse dena , tab wast hoga aiye early ; if it is sunny , the groundhog will maano dekhi isko chaya aor ritt back into isko burrow , aor the shit weather will continue liya chaa adhek sapath .
adhuok kastom of the aaak involve jasna where jaldi morning taar hain aegt to dekhe the groundhog emerging isse isko burrow .
in southeastern penalcav , groundhog lodges ( Grundsow lodges ) celebrate the aaak with fersommlinge , sowal karm in jisse khana is parosa , bhano are bana , aor one or adhek g'spiel ( plays or skits ) hain performed liya entertainment .
the penalaiaa German dialect is the tabhi bhasa bula at the vent , and those jau bolo angrij ada a dand , praha in the roop of a nikle , dime , or quarter prti sabd bula , saah the dhan put into a catro in the bech of the talac .
the largest groundhog dena jasna is aagt in Punxsutawney , penalcai .
groundhog dena , already a widely pahan aor popular paraa , prapt faili attention as a pranamn of the 1993 filli groundhog dena , jisse thay niyat in Punxsutawney , PA ( halki filma primarily in wudtakk , il ) aor portrayed Punxsutawney phila .
High reus hitrr of tampa khadi region
the tampa khadi chartel raai a humid upsh alou ( koppen Cfa ) , saah garma aor ardr greehm saah frequent thunderstorms and drier dardiyon saahh jamne temperatures occurring pratk kaa xalo .
The area anoov a significant garman gila ritu , as nearly two-thirds of the annual varhh jalat in the mahino of June through sitabar .
the chartel is sadhh by the sont States viga of krshi ( uidiy ) as hona in hardiness mandl 10 , jisse is prachy the northern seema of where narrila haeliyt and royal haliian can be grown .
highs praha daura between 65 aor 95 kaa ( 18 aor 35 kaa ) saal golar .
halki gyat liya hot gresh , tampa 's adrch unchi raai never phonch 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the nuagar 's all-time rekar tapan is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
st. pirta 's all-time rekar unche is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
pinellas kanti suth on a prawi between tampa khadi aor the galf of masko , aor much of the nuagar of tampa suth on a smaller prawi jutting aut into tampa Bay .
inse nikta to visal laase of water dano narmphtion temperatures aor introduces visal amounts of humidity into the mahlo .
in samay , the local smandon farthest isse the coast have larger tapan ranges , dano during a single dena aor throughout the seean of the saal .
a arekh of the electromagnetic spectrum , prish vinnin properties aar the daura of barbant aor wavelengths
the elarctitinn spectrum is the range of all possible barbant of elarctitin vikarna .
the `` elarctitinn nark '' of an aakt raai a alag arth , and is bajay the characteristic vitran of elactictenne vikrinn utri or aasht by kiya particular aakt .
the elactictenne spectrum extends isse niche the kaam barbant prutt liya adhun rediyo sanchar to gama vikrinn at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) smapt , thereby covering wavelengths isse hazaro of cllotirm bas to a binnn of the akar of an ano .
the seema liya long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , while it is vichar kiya the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the plaak lambai , halki in principle the nark is anat aor nirtar .
sabse parts of the electromagnetic nark hain prutt in vigaan for spectroscopic aor anya probing interactions , as trrke to padhi aor characterize paath .
in jod , vikarna isse vinnn bhag of the nark has mila anek anya uppg for sanchar aor nirman ( dekhi electromagnetic radiation for adhek arpon ) .
Legend
Franklin delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 kaa apryl 12 , 1945 ) , bhii known by uske adsar , FDR , thay the 32nd addhs of the sont raay ( kaa ) aor a contrl figure in world events dauran the mid-20th sadi , agrin the United raay during a samay of wipsy arthec depression aor kool hudd .
a prabpll nata of the lartic Party aor the tabhi amri president nicv to adhek than dho terms , he built a New sade Coalition kiya realigned amri rajanti after 1932 , as uske rehlu netyoon parah amri udatad liya the madhy tisra of the 20th sadi .
saahh the bouncy lercori sogn `` Happy deno Are yahan again `` as uske aiaan theme , fdr prrat lalima rapblonn harbat huoar in nambar 1932 , at the ghrri of the gree vasad .
sacriaa by uske neeji viga over poloy , fdr 's unfailing ashad aor sacrtaro contributed to a navrkar of the nashl spiet .
he worked closely saah angoj prahan Minister vintan charchl aor Soviet samay cchvir jasse stalin in agrin the allies virdh jarni aor japani in sanaar hudd ii , aor restoring samdhi to the swash 's arvasha .
in uske pahlo sho deno in daftar , jisse began kuch 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major vidan aor issued a profusion of kariiaa adesh that instituted the nayi sade kaa variety of karm designed to upaj rahta ( sarki karya liya the baraar ) , rakver ( economic growth ) , aor sudhar ( through vinnim of waale goli , banko aor prahan ) .
The araaha improved rapidly isse 1933 to 1937 , lackin tab relapsed into a gahne mandi .
the bipartisan rudhi ganbhann kiya formed in 1937 prevented his paaking the pram Court or gujar khoi considerable vidan ; it abolished anek of the rahta karm jajb unemployment diminished dauran World hudd II .
sabse of the regulations on caaar yaud ended prrchyi kaa , magar liya the vinnim of waale goli by the Securities and Exchange aag , jisse sthil exists .
saah saah anek choti programs , prmuk surviving karm shaml the sanhiy jama bima nigm , jisse thay nirm in 1933 , aor sholl surkha , which corgens passed in 1935 .
As World hudd ii loomed bada 1938 , saah the Japanese arman of chhin and the aggression of naji jarni , FDR diya madar diplomatic and vittiy support to chhin aor gree Britain , abki baaki officially neutral .
uske lashy thay to meke amriaa the `` arsel of laktar `` jisse hota salai munitions to the allies .
in kuch 1941 , Roosevelt , saah Congressional swieti , provided lend-lease shota to the deso lada virdhu naji jarmin saah bretten .
saah bhoot madar national support , he bana hudd on japani aor jarni bada the Japanese arman on parl haarb on dismar 7 , 1941 , colling it a `` tithi jisse hoga live in infamy `` .
he prvash the mobilization of the u.S. economy to support the aladi hudd pratan .
as an active seyn nata , rujvelt implemented an overall hudd ranti on dho fronts kiya ended in the sikta of the ash shatiya aor the vikas of the sanaar 's pahlo ano bamari .
in 1942 rujvelt ordered the internment of 100,000 japani American naaoi .
bargii dropped to 2 % , rahta karm largely ended , and the addoii arvasha grew rapidly to nayi hataas as lakho of logo stirt to nayi karya in hudd centers , aor 16 lakho meen aor 300,000 mahlo youd drafted or volunteered for sayn sewa .
rujvelt chrv the amri raaatic scene not tabhi dauran the barah xalo of uske presidency , lackin also liya saako afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of mataa kiya nirm the paavo parti prali .
fdr 's nayi sade ganbhann united madrur samnh , biga nuagar mashen , swath ethnics , afri amrie aor gramin white southerners .
he bhii baawa the later sushi of the sont rashar aor bretton vuds .
rujvelt is consistently reated by scholars as one of the top tinn u.S. rastyo , saah saah abrah Lincoln and zarg Washington .
a udar dokrom , rujtvel parah uske cwarcia stith as `` a choti bayn of bech . ''
A sonte kamit is a term in rajanti kiya is prutt to refer to a committee bana up of members of both saxhon of a bicameral nidla .
in anya contexts , it refers to a committee saah saxy isse adhek than one santhan .
the vinnim of vasti in the sont raay is nahi among the enumerated shatiyan of the federal sarki ; antra the daswa amendment to the United raay swashani , it is isle exclusively the domain of the states to permit , prohibit , or varna regulate commercial sex , magar insofar as corgens may vinit it as bhag of antriy commerce saah kanun like the mann adhinn .
in most raay , vastiv is maano a misdemeanor in the shari of public order crime , a aphroo that disrupts the anurm of a jatio .
it thay at eke samay maano to be a vagrancy aphroo .
filal , nafa is the tabhi raay to allow vashl prostitution , the sharte of jisse hain stipulated in the nafa Revised Statutes .
tabhi 8 counties filal contain crisyol brothels .
seb form of vasti hain illegal in claak County ( jisse contains the lalaa kaa metropolitan area ) , Washoe County ( jisse contains reno ) , karsan nuagar , dgals kanti , aor Lincoln kanti .
The anya kanti theoretically allow brothel vastiv , laciin some of yaa kanti fihal have no crisyol brothels .
goli vastiv , `` pandering , '' and jeena bandh of the proceeds of a vash remain illegal antra Nevada vidhi , as elsewhere in the desh .
as saahh other deso , vasti in the sonte raay can be vika into three wapa shari : goli vasti , vashl prostitution , and escort vastiv .
the national dwar of the sont raay of America , praha baase referred to as the amri flag , consists of tarh equal aada dharnn of redd ( top aor niche ) pratia saah swath , saah a blon rectangle in the kantan ( referred to specifically as the `` samnh '' ) bearing fifty small , swath , five-pointed sitaoo arranged in nano faste aada rows of six sitroo ( shers aor niche ) prati saahh pakti of pach sitroo .
the 50 sitroo on the dwar represent the 50 raay of the sont raay of amriaa aor the 13 dharnn represent the tarh angoe colonies kiya declared swatta isse the kidam of gree bretten aor became the pahlo raay in the samnh .
nicknames for the dwar include the `` sitaoo aor Stripes '' , `` budha mahima `` , aor `` the star-spangled Banner . ''
indiya is a sanhhy samnh of raay comprising twenty-eight raay aor seven samnh territories .
the raay aor territories hain further subdivided into giele aor so on .
congressional giele liya the 113th sont States corgens
2010 Census change:
