A partly submerged himne cave on Perito moroo Glacier .
The ice facade is lagch 60 m unche
Ice formations in the Titlis himne gufa
a glacier cave is a cave formed within the ice of a glacier .
himne caves are praha called ice caves , but inse pada is properly prutt to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round barf .
in bhati , circular motion is a gati of an object along the circumference of a circle or rotation saah a golar path .
It can be vaddi , with constant koni rayte of rotaon ( aor constant speed ) , or non-uniform with a badnla rayte of rotation .
The rotaon around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional body involves galar gati of its parts .
the equations of gati describe the gati of the center of mass of a body .
udarnn of circular motion shaml : an artificial satellite orbiting the darti at constant height , a stoon jisse is tied to a rope aor is being swung in circles , a car turning through a curve in a rees track , an electron moving perpendicular to a vaddi magnetic field , aor a gear turning inside a mechanism .
chunki the aakt 's velocity vector is constantly badnla direction , the moving aakt is undergoing acceleration by a abcherna force in the direction of the center of rotaon .
bagar inse acceleration , the aakt would move in a sidha line , according to nutan 's kann of gati .
Apollo panth is a fictional ashrr from the Rocky films , initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight chapin of the World .
he was played by karle Weathers .
panth had multiple nicknames , sahit The Master of Disaster , The King of Sting , The Dancing vinsak , The Prince of Punch , The One aor Only and the ginti of Monte Fisto .
shari legend states kiya Apollo panth 's name is a wordplay on the Apostles ' Creed , a bayan of belief used in isyi churches .
All of Apollo 's championship fights yau annunn liya the 15 round distance .
chapis fights did not convert isse 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited saahh popularizing the red , swath , aor blue trunks ; panth was the pahlo man to pahne unhe ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in the 3rd aor 4th installments aor hakar by tamm `` the antar '' gunn ( Tommy morsio ) in the 5th kist ) halki samth he wore red aor white , as dekhi in rakk ii .
Balboa 's signature colors yhoo black and kaa he used in the latest movie .
In the United States , the title of federal ndeshi praha arth a judge niak by the President of the United raay and pushi by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United raay swanhann .
In addition to the pram Court of the sont States , whose existence aor kuch aspects of jinke jurisdiction are purar the constitutional power of Congress to alter , adhiomon of Congress have sthpt 13 courts of appeals ( also pukra `` circuit nyloy '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over alag regions of the sonte raay , and 94 sont States jila nyloy .
Every ndesho appointed to aisa a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; aisa positions include the Chief infs aor Associate Justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the nyloy of appeals , aor district judges of the United raay district courts .
seb of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` aleh iii judges '' because vey exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the sanhiyn sarki by Article III of the u.S. swanhann .
In addition , judges of the Court of International Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to aleh iii .
Other dhythoin serving in the federal nyloy , including jaxitertt judges aor bankruptcy judges , hain bhii sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , vey hain neither niak by the addhs nor confirmed by the Senate , and their power derives from Article I bajay .
See Article I and aleh III tribunals .
The Beretta 21a Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by beretta in Italy .
utpann began in late 1984 , solely in the beretta U.S.A. facility in Accokeek , mariland .
it is a further development of the Beretta Model 20 , whose production ended in 1985 .
paritive Universal Life bima ( often shortened to vul ) is a type of life insurance kiya builds a nadi maana .
in a VUL , the nadi maana can be invested in a chaude variety of separate accounts , similar to mutual nidhe , and the choice of jisse of the apalai separate khate to upag is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to inse ability to invest in prath accounts whose maana kaa vary because vey are invested in stock and/or bond markets .
The 'universal ' component in the naam refers to the flexibility the malic has in making premium payments .
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given maah up to maximums parah by the atric Revenue Code liya jivan bima .
This chlpaan is in contrast to whole jivan bima that raai ficd priemium payments kiya typically can not be missed without lapsing the niti ( halki one may exercise an swalth priemium Loan feature , or atpan dividends to pay a Whole Life priemium ) .
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance , chy the mota labh hoga be paid if the insured marta any time as long as there is sufficient nadi value to pay the costs of bima in the niti .
With sabse if nahi seb vuls , unlike whole jivan , there is no endowment age ( the age at which the cash value equals the death benefit amount , which liya purre life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another key labh of vul over Whole Life .
saahh a typical purre life policy , the death benefit is simit to the face amount specified in the policy , and at endowment age , the face amount is seb that is paid aut .
Thus with either death or endowment , the insurance company keeps any nadi value nirm up over the years .
However , kuch participating purre life netoon offer riders which batan kiya khoi dividends shusl on the policy be used to purchase `` shusl up additions '' to the niti jisse badan dano the cash value aor the mota benefit over samay .
If nivesh made in the prath accounts out-perform the general khata of the insurance compnni , a higher rate-of-return can occur than the ficd rates-of-return typical liya whole life .
The samon over the xalo of no endowment age , continually increasing mota labh , and if a unche rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL niti , inse could pranam in uchar maana to the owner or beneficiary than that of a whole life niti saah the same amounts of dhan paid in as premiums .
the bahari wood boiler is a tupaar of the classic wood stove adapted liya set-up outdoors while sthil transferring the heat to interior imarte .
a mound of Girl Scout cookies .
This mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies hain kouk bechi by Girl Scouts of the USA ( GSUSA ) as one of isko prmuk fundraisers liya laol skat units .
saxy of the GSUSA have marhuo selling kouk since 1917 to raise funds .
ladkoyan jau participate can earn pukrar for unko pratan .
vahi are also kayi patanot if the unit as a whole does khoo .
As of 2007 , sales were estimated at about 200 million boxes per saal .
vilhoov Hall
Purdue University , located in West Lafayette , indian , is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University system .
Purdue was founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant vilhoov jajb the indian samay subha , lene advantage of the Morrill Act , accepted a daane of jamin aor money isse lafayette bijann John Purdue to sthpt a kalag of vigaan , technology , and krshi in his name .
the pahla classes yaud held on sitbar 16 , 1874 , with six instructors and 39 vidhhi .
aage , Purdue is a member of the Big teen smalne , and is a khoo known world-class shadh santha .
Purdue enrolls the duori largest chaar body of any vilhoin in indian as well as the choth largest antrish student population of khoi university in the sont States .
purdue offers both undergraduate aor graduate programs in over 211 major ctetto of study , and is well known for isko prashi engineering curricula .
The vishoon has also marhu highly influential in America 's ithes of aviation , having established the first kalag cretita offered in flight training , the pahlo four-year stank 's upadi in aviation , aor the first university visanter ( purdue vilhoon visanter ) .
purdue 's vimann technology program remains one of the sabse competitive aviation-specific karm in the sanaar .
in the mid-20th century , purdue 's vimanin program expanded to encompass unta spaceflight prikii giving vrdhi to Purdue 's nickname , Cradle of Astronauts .
twenty-three purdue graduates have gayi on to become astronauts , sahit ghz Grissom ( eke of the original Mercury Seven astronauts ) , Neil Armstrong ( the first person to tulna on the moon ) , and yujin cernan ( the sabse haal person to walk on the moon ) .
a vasay gaath ( ) is a pada kiya loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also gyat as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also gyat as trichilemmal cysts ; l72.1 ) .
cumi an epidermoid cyst originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates isse hair follicles , by definition , neither parkar of gaath is strictly a sebaceous gaath .
The naam is regarded as a misnomer as the vasi , swath , semi-solid material in dano of these gaath entities is nahi sebum , lackin keratin .
furthermore , antra the microscope neither entity contains vasay glands .
In practice , however , the terms hain praha prutt interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively wirle and hain gyat as steatocystomas or , if anek , as steatocystoma multiplex .
Modern pointe jute .
The edge of the toe pad , which is inserted between the paar and touo baas liya cushioning , can be seen on the right foot .
A pointe shoe is a parkar of shoe worn by ballet nartak when performing pointe work .
Pointe shoes viksit from the khish for dancers to appear weightless aor sylph -like aor have evolved to enable dancers to nrt en pointe ( on the nuske of their toes ) for vistar periods of time .
vey are samnth worn by mada nartak , halic pursh dancers may wear unhe liya unorthodox roles aisa as the bhada stepsisters in sindr , Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's sapna , or meen performing as mahlo in nrt companies such as lesa natkom trockadero and Grandiva .
They hain manufactured in a variety of rango , most commonly in shades of light lulabi .
This tablespoon raai a khssta of about 15 ml .
measuring spoons
In the US aor parts of kanda , a tablespoon is the largest parkar of macha prutt for eating from a bowl .
in the uk , Europe aor most dhartal deso , a tablespoon is a parkar of large macha praha used for serving .
in countries where a tablespoon is a seat macha , the niktam equivalent to the us tablespoon is either the mitha spoon or the soup macha .
a tablespoonful , nominally the capacity of eke tablespoon , is commonly prutt as a mea of aage in cooking .
It is abbreviated as t , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The khsta of ordinary tablespoons is nahi regulated by law and is vishy to considerable vinta .
in the yusy one tablespoon ( mapan unit ) is lagbh 15 mL ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( daiing utensil ) siemon from 7 ml to 14 ml .
in Australia eke tablespoon ( measurement kayi ) is 20 mL .
Harry Potter is a shari of saat calpick novels written by the angoj author J. K. Rowling .
the kitab chronicle the adventures of a judg , Harry kumar , and his mitro rold Weasley and Hermione Granger , all of zisko are students at gorvart School of chooll aor wizardry .
The main story arc chinta Harry 's quest to overcome the adhera wizard Lord voldemort , whose aims hain to become immortal , conquer the wizarding sanaar , subjugate non-magical logo , aor nasht all those jau stand in his rasta , especially hairi Potter .
chunki the release of the first novel Harry kumar and the paros 's Stone on 30 juon 1997 , the books have gained immense popularity , critical acclaim aor wyniik success worldwide .
the shari has also had kuch share of criticism , sahit concern for the increasingly dark tone .
, the book shari has sold about 450 million copies , making it the best-selling book shari in history , and has marhu translated into 67 languages .
The last haar books consecutively set records as the fastest-selling books in ithes .
A shari of many jata , sahit calpick and coming of age ( with tatv of mystery , thirl , adventure , aor romance ) , it has many santric meanings and references .
according to roling , the main theme is death .
vahi are bhii anek anya themes in the series , such as prejudice and bhathar .
The initial prmuk publishers of the kitab were Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the sonk States .
the kitab have since marhu published by anek publishers worldwide .
The books , with the satva book split into two parts , have marhu bana into an eight-part filli shari by Warner bhai satve , the highest-grossing film series of seb samay .
The shari bhii originated much tie-in merchandise , making the Harry kumar brand worth in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the success of the kitab and films , Harry kumar has been used liya a theme park , The Wizarding sanaar of Harry Potter in sarvik Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure .
rs-68 being tested at naso 's stennis sgec Center .
the nearly transparent exhaust is due to this engine 's exhaust hona mostly attp steam ( water waah isse isko propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
viking 5c rocket injan
a rocket engine , or simply `` prasta '' , is a jeete engine that uses tabhi stored propellant mass for forming isko unchi gati propulsive jeet .
Rocket injan are reaction injan and obtain thrust in accordance with Newton 's tisra law .
chunki vey need no external material to roop their jeet , rocket engines can be prutt liya spacecraft propulsion as khoo as terrestrial uses , aisa as missiles .
Most rocket engines are internal combustion injan , halik non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket injan as a smoh have the highest exhaust gatti , are by far the lightest , but hain the least propellant kosal of seb parkar of jet injan .
`` ... baby One adhek Time '' is a song by amri reaciidin clakar britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut singl and title track isse uske debut studio album , ... Baby One adhek Time ( 1999 ) .
lika by Max Martin and produced by Martin and rami , `` ... baby One More samay '' thay released on September 30 , 1998 , by jive raad .
After reaciidin and sending a demo tape with an aurt sogn from toni braxton , sgaps hastrc a multi-album sade saah Jive .
`` ... Baby One More samay '' is a teen paap and dance-pop sogn that refers to a ladki who sentp breaking up saah uske borrfendes .
The song received generally favorable reviews isse critics , who praised its composition .
`` ... baby eke adhek Time '' attained wasik success , reaching number eke in every desh it charted .
it also prapt numerous certifications around the world , and is one of the best-selling singles of all time , saahh over 10 million copies sold .
An accompanying music video , directed by nigal Dick , portrays Spears as a student from a chalic unchi sula , who starts to daydream kiya she is singing aor dancing around the sula , while watching uske love beaj from afar .
The music veeo was later referenced in the music veeo of `` if u Seek ammi `` ( 2008 ) , jaha Spears 's fictional daughter is vash with a saaman schoolgirl phnao while wearing lulai ribbons in uske iball .
In 2010 , the muck veeo for `` ... baby eke More Time '' thay voted the tisra most influential video in the history of pop music , in a poll held by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby One adhek samay '' in a number of seav appearances and in all of her concert toor .
it was the encore of the ... baby eke adhek samay daura ( 1999 ) aor Dream bhitr a sapna Tour ( 2001 ) ; Spears also performed remixed versions of the song dauran the Oops ! ...
I Did it Again sanaar daura ( 2000 ) , The Onyx Hotel daura ( 2004 ) , the M+M 's daura ( 2007 ) , The Circus abhin Britney sgaps ( 2009 ) , aor the Femme Fatale daura ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby One adhek samay '' thay manti liya a grami Award for behtan Female Pop Vocal prashan , and has marhu included in lists by Blender , Rolling stoon aor vh1 .
It raai marhu noted for redefining the sound of latt 1990s muck .
Spears has namit `` ... Baby eke adhek samay '' as one of uske favorite songs from her career .
It was bhii the naila sog to be niya on the biss 's music karm Top of the baute .
Cholera is an karna in the choti aant caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae .
the main symptoms are watery diarrhea and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by pina water or eating khana that has been contaminated by the feces ( waste product ) of an infected witt , sahit one with no apparent symptoms .
The garrtt of the diarrhea and ulti can seese to rapid nirzan and electrolyte astuln , aor death in some mamle .
the prathak treatment is oral rehydration therapy , typically saah mauk pulkir solution , to badle jala aor electrolytes .
If inse is not tolerated or karta nahi provide improvement teaj enough , intravenous fluids can also be used .
Antibacterial drugs are faade in those with kathor bimar to shorten its duration and severity .
Worldwide , it affects kaa lakho people and kanari kaa deaths a year .
Cholera was eke of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological methods .
The hitrr of Dorian dhuser is the only published ankh by Oscar Wilde , appearing as the lead story in lippincott 's masik Magazine on 20 June 1890 , printed as the juli 1890 samm of this magazine .
the patricoa 's smapae feared the story thay indecent as supad , so they censored roughly 500 sabd , without Wilde 's knowledge , before prasaon .
But bhii with kiya , the stori thay sthil greeted saah outrage by angoj reviewers , kuch of zisko sujay kiya wall chahe be prosecuted on moral grounds , leading wall to defend the ankh aggressively in letters to the angoj dabae .
Wilde later revised the story for kitab publication , banana substantial alterations , hatna visad passages , adding new adhya and including an aphoristic Preface which has chunki become famous in its own sahi .
The amended version was published by vard , Lock aor Company in April 1891 .
kuch vidon manana that wall hota today have wanted us to read the version he originally supad to lippincott 's .
The novel tells of a yag man namit Dorian Gray , the subject of a painting by artist Basil Hallward .
Basil is pravi by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with him , believing uske sandr is responsible for a new vidhi in his art .
dorrin meets rab Henry wotton , a friend of Basil 's , and becomes enthralled by Lord hanir 's world view .
Espousing a new hedonism , rab hanir suggests the only things layak pursuing in life are sander and fulfilment of the hosh .
Realizing that one day uske sandar will fika , dorrin ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to bech his soul to ensure the portrait Basil raai painted would aoo rather than he .
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a jivan of debauchery , the porte serves as a reminder of the effect each adhinn raai upon uske soul , saahh each seene displayed as a disfigurement of uske form , or through a sign of vadaa .
The Picture of dorrin Gray is maano a work of classic ghtick fiction with a strong Faustian theme .
kaa kaa ( born 6 February 1917 ) , known as zor Zsa Gabor ( ) , is a Hungarian -born amri actress who acted in supporting bioan in fillo , on Broadway , and occasionally on talvin .
Gabor thay also a socialite .
She began uske stet karir in Vienna at age 15 , aor thay pahana Miss hangri in 1936 .
She emigrated to the sonte States in 1941 aor became a sought-after actress saah `` uoripyo flair and style '' , saah a personality kiya `` exuded charm and angh '' .
uske first movie role was as supporting actress in Lovely to dekh at .
She later acted in We 're nahi shadud !
and nimi eke of uske few agri roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) , directed by John Huston , who described her as a `` creditable '' actress .
Besides her film aor television appearances , she is best gyat for having nano husbands , including ghol magnate Conrad Hilton aor actor George Sanders .
She once stated , `` Men have sada liked me aor I have sada liked men .
But i like a mannish man , a man who knows how to talk to aor davat a woman kaa nahi base a man with mashapian . ''
bross Lee ( traditional : kaa ; born liele jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 kaa 20 julay 1973 ) was a Chinese American martial artist , actor , martial kela instructor , paros , and filar .
The saapas of Jeet Kune Do , Lee was the son of cantonese apparo sthr Lee Hoi-Chuen .
he is widely maano by commentators , achoo , media and anya martial artists to be eke of the most influential martial caloom of all samay , and a pop culture icon of the 20th sadi .
He is praha credited saah helping to badle the way ashiya yhoo prust in amri films .
liele thay born in Chinatown , San fanko on 27 nambar 1940 to aarak from Hong Kong and was utha in kolon saahh uske family until his latt ksshor .
He thay introduced to the film industry by uske pita and appeared in anek films as a chailadd actor .
Lee moved to the United States at the age of 18 to prapt uske higher education , and it thay during inse samay kiya he began teaching martial kela .
uske Hong kaang and Hollywood -produced films elevated the traditional Hong kaang martial arts film to a new level of popularity and acclaim , sparking a surge of beaj in Chinese martial arts in the vaste in the 1970s .
The direction and tone of uske films changed and baawa martial arts and martial kela films in Hong Kong aor the rest of the sanaar .
He is vika liya uske roles in pach feature-length films : Lo Wei 's the Big Boss ( 1971 ) aor Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; rasta of the drann ( 1972 ) , directed aor written by liele ; Warner bhoy ' daale the Dragon ( 1973 ) aor the Game of Death ( 1978 ) , dano nisdan by rabrt Clouse .
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the world , vishar among the chaizing , as he portrayed Chinese rashad in his films .
He initially prish in Wing Chun , but bada rejected well-defined martial art shalin , favouring bajay the use of catcoon isse vinnin sources , in the spiet of his personal martial arts philosophy , which he dubbed jeet Kune Do ( the Way of the Intercepting mutti ) .
Lee aagt dual nagrat of Hong Kong and the United States .
He died in Kowloon tong on 20 July 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) , also known as chronic obstructive peeon disease ( COLD ) , chronic obstructive airway disease ( coad ) , chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) and chronic obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD ) , is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing rogo of the lungs in which the aerve simit over time .
inse hud airflow to and isse the lungs , causing shortness of saans ( dyspnea ) .
in nadic abaas , copd is defined by its characteristically kaam airflow on lung function tests .
In contrast to asthma , this limitation is poorly reversible and usually gets progressively badtar over samay .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas , most commonly isse tamboo dhorpan , which triggers an abnormal inflammatory jawab in the peeon .
The diagnosis of COPD requires peeon function prashan .
Important management strategies are smoking cessation , vaccinations , punars , aor drug chikta ( often using inhalers ) .
Some meri go on to require long-term oxygen therapy or lung transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD crem as the sixth leading cause of mota in 1990 .
It is prast to become the fourth agri karnne of death worldwide by 2030 , due to an badan in dhorpan daro and demographic changes in anek deso .
COPD is the third leading cause of mota in the u.S. , and the economic burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and khoya productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ; 12 juon 1929early March 1945 ) is one of the most discussed Jewish victims of the holocaust .
Her diary has been the basis for several plays aor films .
Born in the city of Frankfurt am prmuk in Weimar Germany , she lived sabse of uske life in or nikat Amsterdam , in the niddlendr .
Born a German nashl , Frank lost uske nagrat in 1941 .
dho gained international fame posthumously after her diary thay prik .
It documents her experiences hiding dauran the German occupation of the Netherlands in sanaar hudd II .
The Frank family moved isse Germany to addmast in 1933 , the year the nazis gained control over Germany .
By the shurt of 1940 , they were trapped in addmast by the naji occupation of the Netherlands .
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in julay 1942 , the purvar gari into chapan in the chupa rooms of aani 's father , otto fenk 's , office bhann .
After dho xalo , the smoh thay betrayed aor transported to visha seero .
Anne Frank and her sister , Margot , were hakar transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp , where they died of typhus in kuch 1945 .
Otto Frank , the only survivor of the family , returned to amrtam bada the war to dhonde that aani 's dayre had marhuo saved , aor his efforts led to isko prasan in 1947 .
It thay translated from its original bach and first published in English in 1952 as the Diary of a Young Girl .
it has since been andut into many languages .
the diary , jisse was given to aani on her 13th birthday , chronicles her life from 12 June 1942 aabak 1 agst 1944 .
Kurt 's signature
karte Donald Cobain ( farr 20 , 1967 kaa April 5 , 1994 ) was an amri musician and artist , behatin known as the lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band nirvan .
Cobain formed nirvan with Krist novoselic in bardin , Washington in 1985 aor established it as part of the Seattle music saaki , having isko debut ellam Bleach released on the swaat record lable sub paap in 1989 .
After hastar saah major label DGC Records , the band mila breakthrough success saahh `` Smells jaise tinn stiet `` from its duori album nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , Nirvana was labeled `` the lephs band '' of pedhe X , aor Cobain hailed as `` the parka of a generation '' .
koboe , however , was praha uncomfortable aor frustrated , believing his message aor kalari dushi to have been misinterpreted by the palcic , with his personal issues praha subject to midaa attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final studio album in Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his life , kobo struggled with heroin addiction , bimar and depression .
he bhii had parashi coping with uske fame aor public image , aor the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding kood aor his wife , santarr kortin Love .
On apryl 8 , 1994 , Cobain was found dead at uske ghere in Seattle , the shakar of what thay officially ruled a attha by a self-inflicted shotgun ghav to the head .
The circumstances of his mota at age 27 have become a tapic of public fascination aor debate .
chunki their debut , Nirvana , saah Cobain as a songwriter , raai bechi over 25 million albums in the U.S. , aor over 50 million wipsy .
Radial injan samay and kamo mechanism .
Click liya full reus anmichin .
Radial injan of a biplane
Master rod ( katra ) , slave aor balances isse a two-row , fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial injan is a reciprocating parkar internal dhan engine configuration in which the cylinders point outward from a contrl crankshaft jaise the tilayi of a whel .
it resembles a stylized star when viewed from the front , aor is pukra a `` sthrr engine '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some bhaan .
the radial configuration thay very commonly prutt in yavan engines pahlo turbine engines became predominant .
The suhrr Girls is an amri sitcom , created by Susan haris , that originally aired on NBC from September 13 , 1985 , to may 9 , 1992 .
aubhin Bea arthr , betti White , Rue McClanahan and Estelle Getty , the show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami , florrrr .
It thay itpit by Witt/Thomas/Harris prantosd , in association saahh Touchstone talvin , and Paul junger witt , Tony Thomas , and Harris served as the asli kariiaa nirma .
The suhrr ladkoyan received naun acclaim throughout most of its chalan aor jeet anek awards , sahit the pritim ami pukra for bika comide Series twice .
It bhii jeet three Golden gloob pukar for behatin Television Series kaa Musical or comide .
All four sitaom each received an Emmy Award throughout the shari ' chalan aor had multiple nominations .
The series bhii ranked among the top teen highest-rated karm for chaa out of isko seven seean .
deepwater khudi is the process of oil aor gaas exploration aor utpann in ghrrioo of adhek than 500 phit .
by this definition , there are approximately 600 deepwater kuon in the Gulf of Mexico .
it has marhu economically infeasible liya many years , laciin saah rising aala kimti , adhek compannon hain nivesh in inse chartel .
prmuk companies working in inse sector shaml Diamond offshore , TransOcean , aor Baker Hughes .
There hain morp dho kinds of mabul deepwater khudi rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs aor drillships .
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position sapnta such as a floating spar ( mach ) or tension-leg platform .
haal industry analysis raai anaut that the total vey in the global deepwater avachara market will reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa seb aal is accessible on land or in shallow water .
tuma can dhonse some oil jama buried gahne under the smander kaa ... using sonk equipment , oil companies determine the khudi sait most sans to upaj oil .
Then they uppg a mabul offshore khudi unit ( MODU ) to khude the initial well .
kuch ikii are privit into production rigs , meaning they switch from khudi liya oil to capturing aal once it 's found .
sabse of the time , the aala company will replace the MODU with a adhek permanent oil production rega to kapar kaa ... The MODU 's job is to drill down into the smander 's manjil to find oil deposits .
The part of the drrlil kiya extends below the deck and through the jala is pukra the riser .
the riser allows liya drilling fluids to move between the floor aor the rega .
insers lower a drrlil string -- a series of paap designed to drrli bas to the oil deposit -- through the kaa
kaa expansion of deepwater khude is happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... kaa
in 2010 a visal explosion occurred killing 11 madrur and spilling millions of gallons of oil into the galf of masko abki a bp oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
kaa ... Despite the risks , the deepwater khudi trend is spreading in the Mediterranean aor off the coast of istt afri after a string of visal discoveries of pratic kaa
kaa reason liya the resumption of aisa khude , analyst say , is continuing high demand for energy kaa
America needs the oil so it is almost jarri to face the high risks kiya come with deepwater drilling in order liya Americans to continue to carry on their raaj jivana .
kaa urja viag recently prast kiya galf oil utpann would expand isse its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day , still nearly a quarter of kool rehlu utpann , to 2 million barrels a day by kaa
deepwater khudi affects the parva in dano negative and dhantak ways .
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes aala spills it is still a hazardous possible nisha .
aala spills pranamn in oil doob to the niche of the smander smothering plant life leaving fish without food and ashyr to jivat .
on the other haath deepwater drilling praaav the environment in a positive trrke too .
In samay akar the deepwater oil well is not in use anymore plants hoga grow on and around the well banana a cave or cavern like shelter ideal liya pesu to thrive in .
deepwater drilling also lets us dekhi the ghrrioo of the smander floor that hain hardly kahi seen .
kaa on roves at the bottom of the wells record phote aor louo foto of rare machli that are in there natural habitat , giving scientist a dekh at animals they rarely kaa ( Chevron nigm ) . ''
monka Samille lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with zisko sont States addhs dheeek Clinton admitted to having thaa an `` improper relationship '' while dho worked at the swath House in 1995 aor 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions ( jisse included Clinton 's mhoooog ) became gyat as the Lewinsky scandal .
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra , , ( dismar 12 , 1915 kaa May 14 , 1998 ) was an American singar and film karta .
shurt uske musical career in the sula era with hairi James aor Tommy dorsey , Sinatra mila unprecedented kamay as a xolo clakar from the jaldi to mid-1940s after hona signed to collanba Records in 1943 .
Being the idll of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released uske first album , the Voice of Frank sinta in 1946 .
His professional career had stalled by the 1950s , but it was reborn in 1953 bada he won the Academy Award for behatin supporting Actor for his prashan in isse yahan to Eternity .
he signed with Capitol rikar in 1953 and released several critically lauded albums ( aisa as In the Wee Small ghanto , Songs liya Swingin ' priemian ! , aiye makhi with Me , Only the Lonely and nice 'n ' Easy ) .
Sinatra bayn Capitol to found his own record leble , Reprise rikar in 1961 ( dunna kama with ellam aisa as Ring-a-Ding-Ding ! , Sinatra at the Sands and Francis albar Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ) , toured internationally , thay a founding sasy of the Rat Pack aor fraternized with celebrities and statesmen , sahit jaan F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective sitabar of My xalo , stakhrr in the Emmy -winning television khaas Frank Sinatra : a man aor His Music , and scored hits saah `` Strangers in the ratri `` and `` My rasta `` .
With sales of his mooc dwindling and after appearing in several poorly received films , sinta retired liya the first time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he aaye out of rintem and in 1973 recorded anek albums , scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) nayi York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his lalaa Vegas shows as a home adhar , he toured dano bhitr the sont States and internationally , until a short time before uske mota in 1998 .
Sinatra bhii forged a highly successful karir as a film actor .
bada winning behatin supporting karta in 1953 , he also garnered a naman for Best Actor liya The Man saah the suhrr Arm , aor critical acclaim liya his prashan in The Manchurian Candidate .
he also stahra in such musicals as High sama , pal Joey , Guys aor daal and On the Town .
Sinatra was honored at the kende bech honors in 1983 aor was awarded the addhiya padak of Freedom by rold reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997 .
He was the parta of eleven grami pukar , sahit the grami Trustees pukkar , Grammy lende pukra aor the Grammy ajvan Achievement Award .
Sinatra is also eke of kaa best-selling artists of all samay , having bechi adhek than 150 lakho naal worldwide .
Typical cornhole board
cornhole , bhii gyat as seem thala thos , makai thos , baggo or bags , is a lawn khel in which players louo turns throwing corn hole bags at a raised platform with a hole in the dhur end .
A thala in the chade scores 3 ank , while eke on the moch sakor 1 paitan .
Play continues until a team or khili reaches the score of 21 .
The American sunha trua is an official sunha bullion sikka of the sont raay .
Authorized under the sunha Bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was first released by the sont raay minte in 1986 .
Bikram yug is a praliy of yug kiya Bikram choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yug techniques aor popularized shurt in the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes run for 90 minutes and consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
bikra Yoga is ideally practiced in a rum heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) with a humidity of 40 % , .
Christopher maical massey ( born 26 janri 1990 ) is an American actor , comedian aor rapper best gyat liya aubhin as Michael barret in Nickelodeon talvin series Zoey 101 .
massey has prapt many pukra and nomination including a Young clakar Award and ammi Awards nominations .
He is bhii known liya appearing in anek commercials in the early 2000s .
A conventional teaspoon made of beaag sthyl .
A teaspoon is an mad of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument , as well as a kayi of measurement of aage in some countries aor customs .
A farnn is any eke or adhek of a smoh of about 12,000 species of padhe belonging to the botanical smoh gyat as Pteridophyta .
napans mosses , they have jalim and flommfa ( banana them vascular padhe ) .
They have tana , leaves , and roots like anya vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via beoon and have neither beej nor pushpi .
By far the largest smoh of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , but ferns as parah yahan ( also pukra monilophytes ) shaml horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
the term pteridophyte also refers to ferns aor a few other bijart vascular plants ( dekhi classification section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the carboniferous laciin many of the current families and species kiya nahi appear until roughly 145 million years ago in the jaldi Cretaceous ( bada flowering padhe came to dominate anek environments ) .
Ferns hain not of major economic importance , but some hain grown or gathered liya food , as shoaan padhe , for remediating contaminated soils , aor have been the subject of shadh for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
Some are significant weeds .
They also play a role in mythology , arvirin , and art .
Flat roofs in isril
Flat roof in Los enyls
A flat roof is a type of covering liya a building .
in contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a flat roof is horizontal or nearly horizontal .
The slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch : roofs jisse hain nearly flat are gyat as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases , so the pitch is said to increase ) .
khoi sheet of material used to kaar a chapat or low-pitched chaat is usually known as a jilli and the primary purpose of yaa lillo is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to run off from a patla inclination or camber into a gutter system .
Water from some chata roofs such as on gardan sheds sometimes flows freely off the edge of a roof , halki gutter systems hain of advantage in keeping dano divaren and mulaar dry .
Gutters on choti roofs often lead water directly onto the ground , or better , into a specially made soakaway .
drenj on larger roofs praha seese jala into the rainwater drainage pralil of khoi built up chartel .
occasionally chapat roofs halic are designed to collect jala in a pool , usually for aesthetic purposes , or for rainwater buffering .
chapta roofs exist seb over the world and each area has its own tradition or varta for samri used .
In warmer climes jaha rainfall is less aor freezing is asalin to occur , many flat roofs are base built of chini or kantit aor this is shoh at keeping out the heat of the suory aor cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily apalan .
In ctetto jaha the roof could become srnpt by rain aor lika , or where water soaked into the brickwork could freeze to ice and thus seese to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of barf as it form ) yaa roofs are nahi suitable .
Traditionally most flat roofs in the western sanaar make use of tarol or more praha tarol paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in baari to kharna the sun 's heat , uv kirne and masam bandh it and helps protect it isse cracking or blistering aor degradation .
Roof decking is praha of plywood , chipboard or OSB boards ( OSB = unm Strand falak , also known as strining board ) of around 18mm moti .
The tar coating is lagoo in eke or more coats as a hot draw , heated in a tarol ketly , or as chadre of tarol impregnated 'paper ' chapae bas and sealed together at joints by hot tar - akar it raai cooled , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason liya failure of yaa pragat roofs is angama or kami of mentos where people or karm cause the baari to be moved or removed isse the tarol or tarpaper waterproofing , yaun exposing it to weather aor sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time aor eventually jala gets in .
tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre samri soaked or impregnated in tar .
as gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where vey rise khada from the roof such as on munder walls or upstands , tarpaper visaan are utpid with fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the prakm of manufacture such that a sthai layer of baari is stuck to it in order to give it gari surkha .
tarpapers vary in visha as does the karri and training of those applying it to upaj adhek or kaam successful results .
In some sux climates or shaded areas yaa blki 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can pichla khoo in relation to the lagat of materials kharde and cost of laying them , however the lagat of modern membranes such as EPDM has come down over haal years to meke unhe more aor adhek affordable .
There hain now adhek firms supplying modern kilk and there is generally a growing jugat of their prashan aor availability .
If a lika does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed liya long avdhi of samay dauran which jala penetrates and soaks the decking and khoi insulation and/or dhana beneath it .
This can lead to expensive damage from the dorgan jisse often develops aor if left can weaken the roof structure .
There hain bhhi various health risks to logo aor pesu breathing the sache spores : the severity of inse swast risk remains a debated point .
One problem saah maintaining chapat roofs is kiya if jala does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a adhuok jilli ) it can travel a long way before causing visible khasi or paktte into a building jaha it can be seen .
yaun it is not asaan to see where it is paktte in anurm to repair it .
akar underlying chaat decking is soaked it praha sags causing a further saghan or puddling of water in kiya area and the frboom worsens .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact disc which contains data .
the name is an exumrr which stands for `` Compact Disc read-only merri `` .
Computers can read cd-roms , lackin can nahi write on them .
cd-roms are popularly used to distribute compottr software , including video games aor maltida arpon , halic any data can be stored ( up to the khshta limit of a diskk ) .
Some cds , called enhanced CDs , hold both computer ankda and audio saahh the latter saxh of hona played on a CD player , abki anda ( aisa as software or digital video ) is tabhi usable on a computr ( such as aeso 9660 format pc CD-ROMs ) .
The pila Book is the technical standard that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
eke of a niyat of color-bound books that contain the tanke specifications liya seb cd swap , the Yellow kitab , nirm by Sony and pileps , was the first ectatin of Compact diskk dital aodo .
it adapted the swro to hold any form of ankda .
Joanne `` Jo '' roling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , kalmi naam J. K. Rowling , is a British upnaar , best gyat as the author of the hairi Potter calpick shari .
the Potter kitab have gained wipsy attention , won anek pukkar , aor sold adhek than 400 million naal .
They have become the best-selling kitab series in history , aor marhu the adhar for a series of films which has become the highest-grossing filli shari in history .
Rowling had overall approval on the scripts as well as maintaining tarank contol by serving as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in yate , Gloucestershire , roling was working as a shara and dumish secretary for mafee anthriy when she conceived the idea liya the Harry Potter series on a delayed train isse manseer to London in 1990 .
the seven-year period that followed entailed the death of her maan , divorce from uske pahlo husband aor poverty until Rowling smapt the pahlo ankh in the series , Harry kumhr and the paros 's stoon ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 kaa pichla , Harry kumar and the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) kaa well as 3 supplements to the series .
in 2012 , Rowling parted with uske ansi and resumed writing in the roop of a tragicomedy novel aimed at wask readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling raai said dho is currently working on two kaa aimed for adults , the other for children younger than the Harry Potter daras , and she expects the latter to be published first .
roling has led a `` rags to riches `` life stori , in jisse she progressed from living on raay benefits to multi-millionaire status within five years .
She is the United kidam 's best-selling author since records began , with bakri in excess of kaa .
The 2008 Sunday Times samrd List anaun Rowling 's saaya at kaa million ( $ 798 lakho ) , ranning her as the barva richest stri in the United kidam .
Forbes crem Rowling as the forty-eighth sabse powerful hasti of 2007 , aor TIME magazine namit her as a runner-up for isko 2007 witt of the saal , noting the social , moral , and raaatic inspiration she has given her fans .
In aktru 2010 , Rowling was named the `` Most Influential Woman in bretten '' by leading patricaa editors .
She raai become a notable philanthropist , supporting such charities as Comic rahta , eke gank Families , Multiple Sclerosis sama of gree Britain and Lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level smoh ) .
Auburndale is a city in polk kanti , flordar , sont States .
the population was 11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the u.s yankise estimates of 2005 , the nuagar had a population of 12,381 .
it is part of the Lakeland kaa Winter hawan mahagar sankhy Area .
hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen isse sasha during expedition 7 of the anthriy seep Station .
The eye , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands , characteristics of tropical cyclones , are clearly visible in inse view isse space .
a tropical cyclone is a storm pralil characterized by a low-pressure bech ghire by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce madar winds and heavy rain .
tivra cyclones strengthen jajb jala cafur isse the smander is released as the saturated air rises , resulting in sannnn of water vapor contained in the naam air .
vey are fueled by a different heat yantii than anya cyclonic windstorms aisa as nor'easters , uoripy windstorms , and drewiy lows .
The characteristic kiya separates tivra cyclones isse other cyclonic systems is kiya at khoi unchi in the mahul , the center of a tivra cyclone hoga be warmer than isko surroundings ; a ghatna pukra `` warm camer `` tufan prilonin .
The pada `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical utti of yaa prilonin , which usually form in tivra regions of the globe , and to their formation in mariam tivra aeyr masses .
the term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic proti , with counterclockwise wind flow in the utari Hemisphere and clockwise hona flow in the Southern galhad .
the vipart direction of the hona prava is a pranamn of the corriles force .
Depending on isko location and strength , a tropical ccvaat is referred to by names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tivra storm , cyclonic storm , tropical vasad , and base ccarva .
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely satli hawan and malhar barat , they hain also smarth to produce unchi waves , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
They develop over large laase of warm water , and khoo unko sakti if they move over land due to increased surface friction aor ghata of the warm ocean as an urja corse .
inse is kyon coastal regions can prapt significant damage isse a tropical ccvar , while inland regions hain acrat safe isse receiving strong hawan .
bhari rains , however , can produce significant baad inland , and tufan surges can upaj extensive tatiy baad up to from the coastline .
halic unko effects on insan populations can be vinsher , tropical cyclones can relieve drought conditions .
vey bhii carry heat urja dhur from the tropics aor transport it toward shithon latitudes , which makes unhe an important part of the wash dovelin circulation mechanism .
As a result , tropical cyclones help to maintain suntal in the Earth 's troposphere , and to maintain a acrat stable aor garma tapan worldwide .
Many tivra cyclones develop jajb the dovelin conditions around a weak disturbance in the mahal are favorable .
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles aor patan aisa as the madden-julian doln , el kaa Oscillation , aor the Atlantic multidecadal doln .
Others form jajb other types of cyclones acquire tropical vishante .
Tropical systems are then moved by purahla winds in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , aor can even develop an eye .
On the other smapt of the spectrum , if the sharte around the pralili deteriorate or the tropical ccarva makes landfall , the prali weakens aor hakar dissipates .
it is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of yaa prilonin with varman prikii .
Kirk Douglas ( born issur Danielovitch , ; dismar 9 , 1916 ) is an amri stage aor filli actor , filli producer and author .
uske popular films shaml aut of the Past ( 1947 ) , Champion ( 1949 ) , Ace in the chade ( 1951 ) , The kharab and the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000 liga antra the Sea ( 1954 ) , havas for Life ( 1956 ) , rahe of Glory ( 1957 ) , gunfight at the o.k . Corral ( 1957 ) , The Vikings ( 1958 ) , staatsr ( 1960 ) , Lonely hain the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in may ( 1964 ) , The Heroes of telemark ( 1965 ) and muskl Guys ( 1986 ) .
he is no.17 on the amri filli Institute 's suchi of the greatest male American serin muroshur of seb time , making him the highest-ranked jeena witt on the suchi .
in 1996 , he received the Academy mand Award `` liya 50 xalo as a thanak and moral fors in the motion picture community . ''
he is one of the last surviving actors isse Hollywood 's `` suhrr aoo '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' seger ( born may 6 , 1945 ) is an amri rock and roll singer-songwriter , guitarist and pianist .
as a locally successful Detroit-area clakar , he performed and recorded as Bob seger and the pichla sona and bob Seger System throughout the 1960s .
by the early 1970s , he thaa dropped the `` praliy '' from uske renargin and continued to niet liya broader kamay saah other various bands .
In 1973 , he put saahh The Silver goli Band , a smoh of Detroit-area santroi , with whom he became most successful on the national level saah the album Live Bullet , recorded seav with the candi Bullet band in 1975 at Cobo ghol in Detroit , Michigan .
In 1976 , he achieved a nashl breakout saahh the stiyi album Night Moves .
on his stiyi albums , he bhii worked extensively saah the Alabama-based masisi shoals Rhythm khand , which appeared on anek of Seger 's best-selling singles aor albums .
A roots rakar saah a classic raspy , chilaa voice , seger lika aor recorded gito kiya dealt with priemimm , women , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger raai recorded many hits , including `` ratri chale , '' `` Turn the pees , '' `` We 've Got Tonight , '' `` virdhu the hona , '' aor shakedown kiya thay lika for bewli phaan Cop II aor `` jaise a Rock , '' and bhii co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic recording of `` Old Time Rock aor Roll `` was named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001 .
With a karir spanning pach decades , Seger continues to perform aor rakar today .
seger was inducted into the Rock and fenke Hall of kitri in 2004 and the songwriters ghol of kitri in 2012 .
rihard Milhous nisna ( January 9 , 1913 kaa April 22 , 1994 ) thay the 37th President of the United raay , seat from 1969 to 1974 , jajb he became the tabhi addhs to resign the office .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative aor sintre from chllirnirf aor as the 36th vaisa President of the United raay from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon was born in yorba Linda , cllnrifaran .
he graduated isse whittier College in 1934 and dyok vilhoove School of vidhi in 1937 , returning to cllnrigone to practice law .
He and his wife , paete nisna , sthrn to Washington to work for the sanhhy sarki in 1942 .
he subsequently served in the sont States Navy dauran World hudd II .
Nixon thay elected in California to the haas of prtthin in 1946 aor to the sinte in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger hiss mamla established uske reputation as a leading anti-communist , aor elevated him to national prominence .
he was the karsyloa mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower , the Republican parti addhisya nominee in the 1952 chana .
nisna parosa for eight years as vice addhs .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential aiaan in 1960 , narrowly khone to jaan F. Kennedy , aor khoya a rees liya rajal of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran again for the presidency aor was elected .
Although nisna initially escalated America 's baader in the nitan War , he subsequently ended u.S. baarrde in 1973 .
nisna 's vike to the logo 's gantar of chhin in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the dho nations , aor he initiated kaa and the anti-ballistic Missile sandhi with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his prashan generally embraced policies that transferred sackit from vashiton to the raay .
Among other baate , he launched initiatives to lado cancer aor illegal drugs , imposed madri aor daam nitran , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools , aor sthtp the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning saahh aplo 11 , he scaled waps mante space exploration .
He was re-elected by a landslide in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab aal embargo , the ista of his vaisa president , spiro agnew , and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and anya misconduct by saanoy of the prashan .
the kand escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost nisht impeachment aor hatna from office .
After his ista , he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor , Gerald ghata .
In retirement , Nixon 's karya as an elder statesman , authoring several kitab aor undertaking many foreign yatriae , helped to rehabilitate his palcic image .
he suffered a debilitating stroke on apryl 18 , 1994 , aor died haar days bada at the age of 81 .
{ { Infobox sintre
the Dominican Republic annexation sandhi caused bitter contention between President Grant aor Sen. Sumner .
Brady 1869 ] ]
sen. Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would lead to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of hati , became convinced kiya bhathar lay behind the sandhi , and that meen close to the president saza in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate vidosh Relations Committee , Sen. sumner initially withheld uske opinion on the treaty on janri 18 , 1870 .
Sen. sumner had marhu leaked sucha isse Assistant Secretary of raay , Bancroft Davis , kiya u.s . Naval ships yhoo hona prutt to protect President kaa .
sen. Sumner 's committee voted virdh annexation and at Sen. kaa suggestion aor quite sansht to save the parti isse an bhada fight or the president from sharmin , the Senate aagt its debate of the sandhi behind bandh doors in kariila suthra .
President Grant persisted aor sent sansee to corgens in favor of annexation on March 14 , 1870 , aor May 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out virdh the sandhi ; warnng that vahi would be difficulty with the vidhe naroim , noting the dirlic rebellion that took place on the island , aor the risk that the independence of hatti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be khoya .
Sumner stated kiya Grant 's use of the u.S. Navy as a protectorate was a violation of anthriy law aor unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 , 1870 the treaty was voted on by the Senate and failed to gain the jarri 2/3 bhuut for treaty passage .
The following dena , President grant , feeling betrayed by sen. sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa close dost J. Lothrop Motley , dut to Britain .
By ptatad , Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was palcie knowledge , and he blamed the cchrvi of State for failing to have resigned , rather than let Grant have uske way .
The dho meen , mitro until then , cooled into bitter enemies .
in December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo Domingo somehow , sumner diya a fiercely critical waka accusing the president of usurpation aor Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , smarth by his ccevir of State Hamilton Fish , thaa initiated a campaign to depose sumner isse the chairmanship of the sinte Foreign Relations kamiti .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '' , in addition to having roka grant 's Dominican gantar treaty attempt , sumner thaa defeated Grant 's full repeal of the karyal of Office adhinn , blocked grant 's naman of sinder stiver to U.S. cchrv of Treasury , and marhu a nirtar harassing force pushing punman policies faster than Grant thaa marhu willing to go .
Grant resented sumner 's badpan of manner , as well .
Told akar that Sumner did not believe in the bael , the addhs is supposed to have khaa that he thay not chakt : `` he did n't likhe it . ''
As the darar between Grant and Sumner increased , kaa health began to decline .
jajb the 42nd u.S. Congress convened on kuch 4 , 1871 , sitro affiliated saah President grant , known as kaa kaa voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations kamit chairmanship .
caaar ethics ( also corporate achar ) is a form of applied ethics or pesher achar that examines ethical principles aor moral or ethical problems kiya arise in a business environment .
it applies to all aspects of caaar conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations .
caaar ethics has dano normative aor tarnakk dimensions .
As a corporate practice and a karir specialization , the field is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to understand caaar behavior employ tarnava vidhi .
The daura and maatr of business ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing bartav with non-economic concerns .
Interest in business achar accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s , dano bhitr major corporations and bhitr academia .
For example , today most prmuk corporations promote their pratha to non-economic maana under headings aisa as ethics kood and sohll jimar charters .
adam Smith said , `` logo of the vahi trade seldom mile saah , even for merriment and diversion , but the conversation ends in a dhantar virdhu the palc , or in kuch contrivance to raise prices . ''
sarke upag kanun and regulations to point business behavior in what they perceive to be beneficial dishan .
Ethics implicitly regulates ctetto and details of behavior that lie purar sarki contol .
The emergence of large corporations with simit sandh and swasha to the communities in jisse vey operate trat the vikas of formal ethics regimes .
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat , electricity , rasan , friction , or vikrinn .
sabse burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as sathi or pahlo upadi ) or extend into the deeper sikne but do not involve the pura thickness of the skin ( gyat as aanic moti or second degree ) .
rarely seb layers of the skin or deeper utko , such as muscle or asthi can be injured in which case the burn is either full thickness ( tisra upadi ) or choth degree .
The upaar jarri depends on the garrtt of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than saral pain killers abki major burns may aakta prolonged treatment in specialized barna centers .
Cooling saah tap water may shota paida and decrease khsti however if exapar is prolonged it may result in low deh temperature .
aanic thickness burns may aakta safai saah saboon aor jala followed by dressings .
Blisters should typically be bayn unbroken .
pura thickness burns usually require saral upaar aisa as skin kalmi aor extensive burns praha require visal amount of intravenous fluids .
the most common complications of burns are samnin to sankran .
While large burns can be fatal , adhuok treatments developed in the pichla 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes , especially in children aor young adults .
Globally about 11 million people talas medical upaar and 300,000 people die isse burns .
In the United States , of those admitted to a burn center , approximately 4 % die from their injuries .
The long term nisha is primarily related to the size of barna aor the age of the person effected .
The atalac Ocean , not including artic aor Antarctic regions
inse video was taken by the crew of expedition 29 on board the ISS .
the pass starts from just north-east of the Island of nilfanded over the utar Atlantic Ocean to central afri , over South Sudan .
The atalac Ocean is the second-largest of the world 's oceanic vinaan .
With a total chartel of prachy , it kaar approximately 20 percent of the Earth 's surface and about 29 percent of its water satah chartela .
The first part of its name refers to Atlas of Greek mythology , banana the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 bc ( hdt . 1.202.4 ) : atalit thalassa ( Greek : kaa kaa ; English : Sea of atalls ) .
the pada ethiopic smander , nikla from ithyaa , was applied to the southern atalac as late as the mid-19th sadi .
pahlo Europeans discovered anya oceans , the pada `` ocean '' itself thay synonymous with the waters pura the wanshi of jiblart kiya we now know as the Atlantic .
The jaldi yonon believed this smander to be a gigantic river encircling the world .
the Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated , s-shaped jalay extending longitudinally between Eurasia aor Africa to the east , and the Americas to the west .
as eke ghatak of the interconnected wash smander , it is connected in the utar to the Arctic smander ( which is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic ) , to the Pacific Ocean in the chhddith , the bhartia smander in the southeast , and the dhasinn smander in the south .
( Other prahyin describe the Atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica . )
the equator subdivides it into the North Atlantic Ocean and dhasin Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , aor the need for a unique identifier in issuing forecasts aor warnings , tivra cyclones aor upsh cyclones are given names according to policy ( dekhi Tropical ccarva naanaa ) .
The following hain lists isse which yaa tropical and upsh ccarva names are nikla .
White layit is dispersed by a prism into the colors of the optical spectrum .
The visible spectrum is the portion of the electromagnetic nark that is dras to ( can be detected by ) the insan nazar .
elarctitinn radiation in inse range of wavelengths is pukra drasy light or base light .
A typical insan nazar hoga respond to wavelengths from prrchy 390 to 700 nm .
In sharte of rvgti , inse corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa THz .
a light-adapted eye generally has isko adatam swasha at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ) , in the green region of the atpical spectrum ( see : luminosity jalne ) .
the nark karta not , however , contain all the colors that the human eyes aor dimag can fark .
Unsaturated colors such as lulai , or purple variations aisa as magenta , hain absent , for udarnn , because they can be made tabhi by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
rango containing tabhi eke wavelength hain also pukra pure rango .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window `` , the region of the electromagnetic nark which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's mahul .
An example of this phenomenon is kiya saaf aeyr scatters bllu layit adhek than red wavelengths , and so the midday asaan appears bloo .
the optical window is also pukra the visible window cumi it overlaps the human visible jawab spectrum .
the near infrared ( nir ) window lies base out of the human dushi , as well as the media Wavelength ir ( mwir ) window and the Long wavelength or Far inraded ( LWIR or FIR ) khide though anya pesu may anu them .
Many species can see layit with barbant bahar the `` dras nark , '' jisse is defined in sharte of insan dushi .
Bees and many anya kiet can detect ultraviolet light , which helps unhe dhonde nectar in flowers .
santrr prati kiya nirra on kiet pollination may owe reproductive kamay to unko appearance in ultraviolet light , rather than how colorful they appear to inson .
Birds , too , can see into the ultraviolet ( kaa nm ) , and some have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that hain dras only in the paragin range .
Many pesu that can see into the ultraviolet daura , however , can not dekhi red light or any anya reddish wavelengths .
machomi ' visible nark ends at about 590nm , just pahlo the orange wavelengths start .
Birds , however , can dekhi some red wavelengths , but not as many as humans .
zebras ( or ) hain several species of African equids ( ghoda puriar ) united by their distinctive blaec aor white stripes .
unko stripes come in different patterns , advit to pratok wiqtit .
They are generally social pesu kiya live in choti harems to large herds .
napans unko closest reshoro , ghode and asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
vahi are three prati of zebras : the maidan jabra , the kaa 's zebra aor the mountain jabra .
the maidan zebra and the pahad zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , but kaa 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus dolichohippus .
the latter resembles an gadha , to jisse it is closely related , abki the former dho are more horse-like .
All tinn belong to the genus equus , along saahh other living equids .
the adviti dharnn of zebras make unhe eke of the pesu sabse prabht to logo .
vey occur in a kismo of habitats , such as grasslands , savannas , vuddlind , thorny scrublands , mountains , aor tatiy hills .
however , various anthropogenic carom have had a kathor impact on zebra populations , in particular hunting for skins and habitat destruction .
kaa 's zebra and the mountain zebra are endangered .
While plains zebras are much more plentiful , eke subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the latt 19th sadi kaa halic vahi is currently a plan , called the Quagga Project , that aims to breed zebras kiya are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a prakm pukra breeding back .
bairi White , born bairi Eugene Carter ( kaa ) , was an amri composer and singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy pukrar -winner gyat for uske distinctive baaas voice aor romatic hitrr , White 's greatest kama aaye in the 1970s as a solo singer and with the priemimm Unlimited Orchestra , crafting anek enduring soul , durg , aor disko songs such as his two biggest hits , `` You 're the First , the Last , My subk `` aor `` ca n't Get prapt of apna Love , Babe . ''
saah with Isaac Hayes , White is maano by Allmusic.com as a paiior of disco muck in the early 1970s .
During the corse of his career in the music business , swath hasil 106 sunha albums wipyi , 41 of jisse bhii attained pletinem status .
swath had 20 sunha aor 10 platinum singles , saah wipyi sales in excess of 100 million , according to critics ed Hogan and vedh kergan .
His influences shaml reva . James Cleveland , Ray Charles , Aretha Franklin plus Motown caloom the Supremes , The haar Tops and marvi gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born annji goli vout ; juon 4 , 1975 ) is an American actress , filli director , aor screenwriter .
dho has received an Academy Award , two Screen aithoon Guild pukra , aor tinn suhrr Globe Awards , and was namit holid 's highest-paid aahiti by forbs in 2009 and 2011 .
goli promotes humanitarian kaniri , and is noted for her karya with sharthon as a khaas Envoy aor purva sokh Ambassador for the sont rashar unche Commissioner liya shartno ( UNHCR ) .
She raai often marhu cited as the sanaar 's `` sabse beautiful '' woman , a sherak liya which she has received substantial media dhaan .
goli made uske screen debut as a chailadd alongside uske father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to milenge Out ( 1982 ) , but uske film career began in earnest a decade bada with the low-budget utpann Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her first leading bumk in a prmukh filli thay in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George Wallace ( 1997 ) and gia ( 1998 ) , aor won an Academy pukra for behatin supporting Actress for uske prashan in the drama Girl , badit ( 1999 ) .
goli achieved chaude kitri bada her portrayal of video khel naic Lara Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) , aor established herself among the highest-paid ahrrinnn in holid saah the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She gari uske action star career with Mr. & mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) aor chahe ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated wyniik successes to kaa received further naun acclaim liya uske performances in the dramas a mighty dila ( 2007 ) and changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned uske a nomination for an Academy pukra liya Best aahite .
Jolie made her directorial debut with the wartime drama In the Land of Blood aor Honey ( 2011 ) .
talak from actors jani Lee milar aor Billy bob Thornton , Jolie now jivana saah actor bread Pitt , in a relationship notable for fervent media attention .
goli and Pitt have three biological children and tinn adopted children .
a natural mahra idtit by the erosion of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
apadn is the prakm by jisse marda and chatan are removed from the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes aisa as hona or water flow , and then transported aor deposited in other locations .
abki erosion is a natural prakm , human activities have increased by 10-40 tammias the rayte at jisse erosion is occurring globally .
excessive apadn kanari problems aisa as desertification , decreases in agricultural productivity due to land degradation , sedimentation of galran , and ecological patan due to loss of the nutrient rich apar soil layers .
jala and wind erosion hain now the two primary causes of land degradation ; combined , they hain responsible for 84 % of degraded acreage , making excessive erosion eke of the sabse significant global environmental smasye .
addiii krshi , deforestation , sadke , anthropogenic alou change aor urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human activities in liaa to unko effect on stimulating erosion .
However , there hain many apaalan alternative land use practices that can katna or limit erosion , such as chaat -building , no-till agriculture , and revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey shore is an American vasta talvin series which bhaga on MTV isse December 3 , 2009 to December 20 , 2012 in the United States .
The shari phalo the lives of eight housemates spending their garman at the jarsi Shore in the U.S. raay of nayi jarsi .
Season 2 followed the daala escaping the cold northeast shit to Miami Beach , with ritu 3 returning to the Jersey Shore .
the fourth ritu , filmed in Italy , premiered on agst 4 , 2011 .
The show returned liya a fifth season , at seaside Heights on janri 5 , 2012 .
The fifth season finale aired on kuch 15 , 2012 .
On March 19 , 2012 , MTV pushi that the shari hota return for their sixth ritu .
On August 30 , 2012 , amvet announced that the series hoga end after the chate ritu , which premiered on October 4 .
The shari finale aired on dismar 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of vivad regarding the use of the words `` guido / Guidette , '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes , aor scrutiny from sthaniy cumi the cast members were not residents of the area .
The series garnered record ratings for MTV , banana it the network 's most viewed series telecast ever .
the series ' cast have also marhu credited with introducing unique lexicon and vaskhy into amri popular santi .
The University of Chicago and the vilhoin of ohla hain among the educational institutions that have had varg or conferences prachy the show .
In 2010 , the cast of Jersey Shore thay namit on Barbara walters ' 10 Most fascinating logo list , aor the series has since been exported to darno of countries wisy .
vahi hain several remakes of the dikha in other deso , saah two set in the sont Kingdom ; the well gyat Geordie Shore , niyat in niscal upon Tyne , inglid .
The anya is the ghatoon , the velsh equivalent , which is filma and niyat in cardif .
the only other adhak remake of the show is kaa shore , set in kaa , Spain .
sahi
sont raay territory is any extent of pradesh antra the jurisdiction of the federal sarki of the sont States , including seb waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) and seb u.s . Naval vessels .
the United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights liya exploring , exploiting , conserving , and managing its territory .
This extent of territory is seb the area belonging to , aor under the dominion of , the United raay federal sarki ( jisse shaml tracts lying at a ulaa from the desh ) liya prashan and anya purposes .
The United States kool territory shaml a subset of raaatic divisions .
The U.S. sarkr is a sarkr saahh delegated powers under the sont raay Constitution .
`` the shatiya nahi delegated to the United raay by the swanhann , nor nishad by it to the raay , hain surkit to the raay crash , or to the logo '' by the Tenth amendment .
tarmen 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 vigaan fiction karve film nishan by juthn mostow and starring arndn Schwarzenegger , Nick Stahl , Claire danes and Kristanna Loken .
It is the second sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ) .
After Skynet fails to maar Sarah Connor before uske son is born and to kill John himself as a chailadd , it bhana back another tarmen , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe aut as many prithor officers as possible .
This includes John 's shaviy biwi , laciin not John himself as uske whereabouts hain anjan to Skynet .
John 's life is placed in danger when the T-X accidentally pata him .
A cord of wood
the cord is a unit of measure of dry aage used in kanda and the United raay to measure firewood and pulpwood .
a cord is the rashi of wood kiya , when `` crem aor khoo stowed '' ( arranged so tukde are aligned , smantar , touching aor compact ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds to a khoo stacked woodpile high , long , and deep ; or any other wasth of rakik mea that yields the same aage .
The name cord probably comes from the use of a cord or strining to measure it .
The , is an 8-bit handl video game antar developed aor manufactured by nento .
It was released in japani on , in utar amria in , aor in uoriyp on .
it is the pahlo handheld console in the khel Boy line , aor was created by Gunpei yokoi aor nento shadh & Development 1 kaa same staff jau thaa designed the Game & Watch series as well as anek lercori games liya the nento entertainment System .
redesigned versions you released in 1996 and 1998 , in the form of Game Boy Pocket , aor Game Boy Light ( Japan tabhi ) , crash .
The Game Boy is nento 's duori handheld system following the Game & dekhe shari introduced in , aor it sont features isse both the Nintendo Entertainment System aor Game & Watch .
It was originally bundled saah the pahle game teniris .
As bhag of the fourth generation of eeming , the khel Boy competed with the Sega Game Gear , atari Lynx , aor the TurboExpress .
despite these other technologically superior handa consoles , the Game Boy was a tremendous success .
The Game ladke aor its successor , the Game ladke Color , have both sont sold 118.69 million units worldwide .
Upon its release in the United States , it sold its entire shipment of one million ikii bhitr weeks .
the World Trade Center is a jatl of imarte under construction in nimnra minthe , nayi yaak City , United States , replacing an pahlo jatl of seven buildings with the same naam on the same site .
The original World Trade bech featured landrm juda towers , which opened on April 4 , 1973 aor were destroyed in the September 11 hamle of 2001 , along saah 7 World Trade bech .
The other imarte in the complex yhoo chusti in the hamle , aor unko ruins were hakar demolished .
The sayit is hona rebuilt saah pach nayi skyscrapers and a memorial to those killed in the hamle .
, only one skyscraper raai been smapt ; the anya four hain apectttt to be smapt before 2020 .
eke World wapar bech will be the lead building for the nayi complex , reaching adhek than 100 stories at its completion .
it became the tallest bhann in nayi York nuagar on apryl 30 , 2012 , and is expected to be finished by 2013 .
a sixth tower is awaiting pushi .
At the time of their completion , the asli 1 sanaar Trade Center ( the utar Tower ) aor 2 World wapar Center ( the dhasin minar ) , gyat collectively as the `` Twin minare '' , were the tallest buildings in the sanaar .
the other buildings included 3 WTC ( the Marriott sanaar Trade Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC , aor 7 WTC .
seb of yaa buildings were built between 1975 aor 1985 .
The cost for the construction thay $ 400 million ( $ in doller ) .
The complex was located in the heart of nayi York nuagar 's sharr financial district and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office sgec .
the World Trade Center experienced a fire on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 aor a robbery on , 1998 .
In 1998 , the Port phikar decided to privatize the World wapar Center , leasing the buildings to a neeji company to manje , aor awarded the lease to Silverstein gune in .
On the morning of September 11 , 2001 , Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers uday two Boeing 767 jets into the complex , one into each tower , in a sannit terrorist attack .
bada burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by the North minar ( 1 ) , with the attacks on the World wapar Center resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the minare , combined saah faar that the malba initiated in several surrounding buildings , led to the partial or complete collapse of seb the other imarte in the complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten other visal structures in the surrounding chartel .
The process of cleanup and recovery at the World wapar Center sayit took eight mahino .
over the following xalo , yonna for a rebuilt World wapar Center took form .
The first new building at the site thay 7 sanaar Trade Center , which opened in .
the nimnar minthen vikas nigm ( lmdc ) , sthtp in to oversee the rebuilding process , visth competitions to choone a site yagana aor memorial design .
Memory Foundations , designed by deniyl Libeskind , thay selected as the nupun plan , laciin inse went through substantial pravatin in denain .
The new sanaar Trade bech jatl hoga include eke World wapar bech , three other high-rise office towers , and the National September 11 marrolor & samaryle .
San gibrill kyu
San Bernardino Mountains , with mt . sein Gorgonio in the foreground and biga Bear Lake in the background .
The Transverse Ranges are a smoh of mountain siemon of dhasinn California , in the Pacific coast Ranges physiographic region in North America .
The Transverse Ranges shoo at the southern end of the chllirnirf Coast sieman aor suth between Santa Barbara and sein deego counties .
They derive the name anpustt Ranges due to their East-West orientation , banana them antpast to the general North-South orientation of most of cllnrinrifa 's tatiy kyu .
Periodic talac with electron shewl
an electron shewl may be thought of as an sasha followed by electrons around an ano 's nucleus .
The closest shewl to the nucleus is pukra the `` 1 shell '' ( bhii pukra `` K shewl '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shewl '' ( or `` l shewl '' ) , tab the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` m shewl '' ) , aor so on farther and dhur from the cendrak .
The shewl letters K , l , m , ... , used in the X-ray notation , are varma .
pratok shewl can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can hold up to two electrons , the 2nd shewl can hold up to eight electrons , the 3rd shell can hold up to 18 , and 4th shewl can hold up to 32 aor so on .
chunki electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus , an ano 's electrons hoga generally occupy outer shells only if the more bhira shells have already marhu completely filled by other electrons .
however , this is nahi a sakt aakta : Atoms may have dho or even three incomplete bahari shewl .
( dekhi Madelung niem liya more vivar . )
liya an explanation of kyon electrons mood in these shewl see electron vinas .
the electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shewl ) determine the chemical gune of the atom ; it is called the valence shewl .
Each shell consists of one or more subshells , aor each subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals .
Vickie lynn Marshall ( kaa hogn ; November 28 , 1967 kaa farr 8 , 2007 ) , gyat by her moniker Anna nikal smith , thay an American maal , aahiti , and talvin ittc .
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy , banane the 1993 Playmate of the saal .
She modeled for clothing companies , including anda jins aor lene Bryant .
Smith dropped out of unche school aor was shada in 1985 .
Her atdich publicized duori marriage to aala business mogul , J. Howard Marshall , 62 xalo her senior , resulted in atkele that she shadud the octogenarian liya uske money , jisse she asvec .
following Marshall 's mota , smith began a lengthy legal batll over a share of his estate .
uske case , Marshall v. marsha , reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a sawal of federal jurisdiction , and again on a question of bankruptcy adalt phikarr ( now pukra stern v. Marshall ) .
Smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , Florida ghol room as a result of an overdose of nuska drugs .
bhitr the phaila chaa mahino of uske life , smith thay the foose of a narrit dabae coverage surrounding the death of uske son , denil , and the paternity and custody battle over her vanat bete , Dannielynn .
The is one denomination of Japanese yen .
The current design thay pahlo minted in 1959 using Japanese characters known as the `` nayi script `` , aor you bhii minted isse 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' japani characters .
Five-yen coins tithi to 1870 ( when , due to the much uchar maana of the yen , vey were minted in gold ) .
the front of the coin depicts a rice santrr growing aut of the jala , with `` pach yen '' written in kanji ; the back is stamped with `` Japan '' aor the year of issue , also in kanji , alag by sprouts of a pepad .
The tinn grekic tatv of the coin represent krshi aor fisheries , the key elements of the Japanese first-sector arvasha .
Around a chade , there is a gier that represents industry .
it is the tabhi Japanese coin in circulation to lack arbi numerals on either face .
tlc is an American girl group jinke rangal spanned r & B , hip hop , atta , funk , and new jack sula .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` t-boz '' wantics , rapper lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes aor singar Rozonda `` chilli '' thamas , the smoh found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a shari of spats with the vidhi , each other , aor the group 's record leble .
initially , TLC hasil commercial kamay following the reezl of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
On the TLC Tip , jisse sold 6 million naal worldwide .
however , it was unko duori album , CrazySexyCool , that catapulted the group to superstar status .
crazysexycool went on to be certified diamond by the riaa kaa a pahlo for a maada group , and eventually sold 23 million copies worldwide .
Five years bada , the smoh released their third ellam FanMail , jisse became the group 's first album to debut at number one and bechi more than 11 lakho naal wisy .
The subsequent tour following fanmails release became the utcham grossing tour of seb time by a mada band .
in 2002 , lisa `` bayn nazar '' Lopes died in a car accident in horos .
saat mahino bada , T-Boz and Chilli released the smoh 's fourth album 3d , which sold 2 million naal worldwide , it featured unreleased vocals from bayn Eye .
Billboard magazine ranked TLC as one of the greatest musical trios .
between 1992 and 2003 , the band sachint teen shers ten singles , haarr cramak eke singles , four multi-platinum albums , and four grami Awards .
At the smapt of 1999 , tlc thay crem as the seventh sabse successful act of the 1990s by bilarbidd .
In 2008 , the smoh thay inducted into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the same magazine , at 56th place .
kiya year it thay bhii sudhh as the # 25 r & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 xalo .
TLC raai sold more than 65 million records wisy and they are crem as the duori behatin selling female group of seb time , and the behatin selling female r & B smoh of all samay .
In 2012 , tlc crem 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest mahlo in Music , being crem the cramak eke all girl smoh on kiya list .
tarjan is a 1999 amri anaemed adventure film produced by Walt Disney visha anmichin and distributed by Walt Disney satve .
The 37th film in the Walt dijne Animated Classics , it is aarat on the story tarjan of the Apes by Edgar rais Burroughs , aor is the tabhi major motion hitrr version of the story tarjan prapt to be aneemed .
nishan by criss Buck and Kevin Lima saahh a screenplay by Tab Murphy , bob Tzudiker , aor noni White , tarjan shuvien the aave of Tony goldwyn , minnie Driver , Glenn Close , and rogi o'donnell with Brian Blessed , Lance henriksen , Wayne natt , aor Nigel hawthorne .
it was the last bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its purviti Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its reel , isko utpann baje of $ 130 million made it the sabse expensive animated film ever made , until topped by Disney 's apna $ 140 million Treasure graha in 2002 .
It thay bhii the first Disney anaemed visha to open at # 1 since pocahontas .
inse was the last major box daftr success of the Disney Renaissance .
Oil Platform P-51 off the Brazilian coast is a semi-submersible moch .
aala mach Mittelplate in the North smadra
An oil platform , ( offshore mach or colloquially oil rig ) is a large dhana saah facilities to drill wells , to nikle and process aala and pratic gaas , and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining aor wipan .
In anek cases , the platform contains facilities to house the workforce as well .
Depending on the circumstances , the moch may be ficd to the samadr manjil , may consist of an crutrom island , or may float .
rimat subsea wells may also be connected to a moch by flow lines aor by umbilical connections .
yaa subsea saahan may consist of eke or more subsea kuon , or of one or more manifold ceero for multiple wells .
Slaughter is the killing of pesu , usually that of rehlul livestock for khana .
the animals sabse commonly slaughtered liya food are chapnn , jala bhains ( liya beff aor veal ) , sheep , goats ( for lamb and matnn ) , suor ( for pork ) , horses ( liya horse meat ) , and fowl , largely chickens , turkeys , and batho aor increasingly machli from the aquaculture udgo ( fish farming ) .
The swath haas , the president 's official residence and center of the administration
antra the sont raay Constitution , the President of the United raay is the sair of state and head of government of the United States .
As chief of the kariila branch and head of the sanhiyn sarki as a purre , the presidency is the highest political office in the United States by influence and recognition .
The addhs is also the commander-in-chief of the sonk States haraad Forces .
The addhs is indirectly nicv to a four-year term by an choni kalag ( or by the House of Representatives should the Electoral College fail to award an absolute bhuut of maat to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951 , no person may be elected addhs more than twice , aor no one jau raai served more than dho years of a term to jisse kisi else was elected may be elected more than once .
upon the moua , resignation , or hatna isse office of an incumbent President , the Vice President assumes the daftar .
The President jarur be at least 35 xalo of age and a `` natural born '' nagric of the United raay .
inse list includes only those wantion who yhood sworn into office as addhs following the autaan of the sont States Constitution , which took praaav on March 4 , 1789 .
liya American netoo before inse autaan , see President of the Continental Congress .
The list does not shaml any Acting Presidents under the Twenty-fifth amendment to the United States swanhann .
There have marhu 43 people sworn into office , aor 44 presidencies , as Grover Cleveland parosa dho non-consecutive terms and is counted khrbaata as both the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , haar died in office of natural kaniri ( William Henry harsion , zachary Taylor , Warren G. harding , and frnchil D. rujvelt ) , haar yau assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , jems A. Garfield , William mckinley , aor jaan F. Kennedy ) aor eke resigned ( richadr Nixon ) .
zarg Washington , the first addhs , thay inaugurated in 1789 after a sarm vote of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in daftar saah 32 days in 1841 , and Franklin D. rujvelt karhh the longest saah over twelve xalo , but died shortly into uske fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than dho sharte , aor a swankh amendment , affecting presidents bada hairi Truman , was passed to seema the cramak of tamiam an individual can be elected president .
andryo Jackson , the seventh addhs , thay the first to be nicr by meen of all classes in 1828 bada most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
varvan harding thay the pahlo elected after mahlo gained voting rights in 1920 .
ithes rikar haarr presidents kaa jaan Q Adams , rardod B. Hayes , Benjamin harsion aor George W. bosh kaa jau lost the lercori vote but assumed daftar .
John F. Kennedy raai been the only president of roman Catholic faith , aor the varman addhs , Barack Obama , is the pahlo president of African descent .
anek firearms saah detachable suppressors , from shers to bottom : an Uzi , an AR-15 , A Heckler & Koch USP Tactical , A Beretta 92FS , and a sig Mosquito .
Bolt action rimfire rifle with suppressor
awm-f sniper rifle with attached suppressor .
a suppressor , dhani suppressor , or dhani moderator , is a device salaan to or bhag of the barul of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , and praha the rashi of muzzle flash , generated by firing the hathir .
A suppressor can be prutt dano saah a firearm and with sepii air gun .
halik it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this pada is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a prash , especially one chalti faster than the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long uldha shooting ( i.e . greater than 300 meters ) can lessen , or retard , the report at the moment of praaav , and create the impression of khasi near the nisha .
The noise heard nikat the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barul , halki subdued , is nahi silent at all .
A suppressor is usually a metal belan saah atric mechanisms to reduce the sound of faaring by slowing the escaping propellant gas aor sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet .
jaldi suppressors yau created around the beginning of the 20th century by anek inventors .
American aarika hiram Percy Maxim ( nahi to be ulna saah Hiram Stevens Maxim , hiram prssi 's father , aor the aarika of the khat antar Gun ) , is credited with inventing aor selling the first commercially kamab maal circa 1902 ( patented 30 kuch 1909 ) .
khat gave his antar the trademarked name Maxim silencer .
the muffler liya internal combustion injan was viksit in smantar saahh the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the early 20th century , using anek of the same techniques to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries automobile mufflers are sthil pukra silencers ) .
the word silencer in reference to ganne suppressor remains in faili upag , although it has since fallen out of favor saah kuch , especially among the firearms industry , being replaced with the adhek literally accurate term dhani suppressor or baae suppressor , cumi a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` silence '' any weapon , blki it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging .
aam upag aor U.S. legislative language favor the historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. vidhi , the terms `` firearm muffler '' and `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous .
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the sont raay Office of Strategic Services , who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM .22 Long rail pistl dauran World War II .
OSS nidsk William Joseph `` genle Bill '' doon demonstrated the pistl liya President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the swath House .
According to OSS research mukhy Stanley Lovell , doon ( an budha aor visne dost of the addhs ) thay waved into the Oval Office , where Roosevelt thay dictating a letter .
abki rujvelt finished his sansee , Donovan turned his back aor fired ten gilon into a sandbag he had brought saah him , announced kaya he had kiya and haat the dhorpan ganne to the astonished addhs .
The British soe ( Special Operations kariiaa ) Welrod assassination pistol saahh an ahin suppressor was also used by the American OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied uoripyo dauran the Second sanaar hudd .
Beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur ( may 13 , 1922 kaa April 25 , 2009 ) was an American actress , comedienne , aor singar jinke career spanned saat saako .
Arthur hasil kitri as the ashrr Maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the puria and Maude , and as Dorothy zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The suhrr ladkoyan , winning ammi Awards liya both roles .
A stage actress dano before aor bada her talvin success , dho won the toni Award for Best Featured aahiti in a Musical for her prashan as virr Charles in the original cast of mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film aarat on the Tekken veeo game shari , produced by Digital frontier aor distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment in samnh with bandai Entertainment .
The film premiered in utar America by Bandai entertainment on July 26 , 2011 , and in Australia on July 27 , 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening .
it thay released on sitbar 3 , 2011 in japani .
The filli thay released on blu-ray diskk on nambar 22 , 2011 liya USA , and December 1 , 2011 liya Japan .
inse film was also released on DVD on November 22 , 2011 ( 2D Version tabhi ) .
The filli thay additionally shaml with the PlayStation 3 game , Tekken Hybrid , and the nento 3DS title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For a chara of nonprofit , voluntary neighborhood kalat smoh , see paros association .
In the United States , a homeowner association is a nigm formed by a real estate developer for the purpose of marketing , managing , and selling of homes and lots in a aavis subdivision .
it grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the samnh , abki allowing the developer to nikas financial and legal jimar of the santhan , typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners bada selling bandh a predetermined number of laut .
sasta in the homeowners association by a residential buyer is typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't given an kilk to asvec it .
Most homeowner associations hain incorporated , and are subject to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
raay oversight of homeowner associations is minimal , and mainly takes the roop of laws which hain inconsistent isse raay to state .
kuch states , aisa as Florida and chllrnfir , have a visal body of homeowner association law , and some states , aisa as Massachusetts , have virtually no homeowner association law .
The fastest growing form of aavas in the United States today is common-interest developments ( cids ) , a category kiya includes planned-unit developments of single-family ghero , condominiums , and sahare apartments .
Since 1964 , homeowner associations have become increasingly common in the USA .
The Community Associations Institute trade association anaut that HOAs governed 24.8 million American homes aor 62 lakho neecovan in 2010 .
A prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
vahi hain many breeds of ginne suar jisse have marum developed since its domestication ca . 5000 bc .
Breeds vary widely in roop aor purpose , ranging from show breeds with long , flowing iball to those in upag as maal jivo by science .
isse ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca samry in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous dhasin American peoples resulted in many varieties of rehlul Guinea suor , which roop the adhar liya some of the modern rehlu breeds .
jaldi Andean breeds yaud primarily rakha as agricultural bhandar for khana , and efforts at improving the gine suar as a khana corse continue to the modern era .
With the export of gine pigs to Europe in the 15th century , the goal in breeding shifted to focus on the vikas of appealing pets .
to this end , various competitive breeding santhan youd sapit by fanciers .
The American cavy Breeders Association , an adjunct to the American Rabbit Breeders samnh , is the shasi body in the sont States aor kanda .
the British cavy prashad governs cavy clubs in the sont Kingdom .
saaman organizations mood in Australia ( Australian National Cavy prashad ) and New Zealand ( New jiland Cavy cloo ) .
Each cloo publishes its own Standard of Perfection aor determines jisse breeds hain eligible liya showing .
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st sadi .
halki there are many breeds of gine suar , tabhi a few breeds are commonly found on the dikha table as paltu .
Most Guinea pigs mila as paltu were either found undesirable by pranak or were bred to be pleasant pets regardless of how well they meet the nasal maank of purtna .
the short iball , abyssinian , Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka silkie ) breeds hain those sabse asar seen as pets , and the purva three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of ginne pigs .
in jod to their standard roop , nearly seb breeds come in a Satin variant .
Satins , due to their hollow iball shafts , possess coats of a special gloss and chaak .
however , there is growing evidence kiya the genes responsible liya the Satin coat also can cause severe asthi samnsy , sahit Osteodystrophy and Paget 's bimar .
Showing Satin variations is nisha by kuch cavy breeders ' assionnnn because of animal welfare reasons .
All cavy breeds have some saza samay standards : the head prafileu chahe be rounded , with large eyes and large , smooth kano .
The body should be strong and of compact nirman .
kote colour should in all variations be clearly defined aor thorough isse root to tip .
yaa manko are best mila by long sthpt , commonly karva breeds , as their praaak have had enough time aor pesu to effectively breed liya yaa qualities .
the coat ranga adesh of good prahi and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the smooth coated breeds , which have had khoo sthpt , separate breeding lines liya different colours .
State schools ( also known as palcie schools or sarki sulcoon ) generally refer to prathak or dwitek schools mandated liya or offered to all children bagar chaar paid liya , in purre or in bhag , by taxation .
The term may also refer to santhon of post-secondary sikka vitti , in purre or in bhag , aor overseen by government .
The ribosome assembles polymeric protin molecules whose sequence is controlled by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules .
inse is jarri by all living komiie aor associated viruses .
The ribosome ( isse ribonucleic acid aor the yuni soma , arth `` body '' ) is a large and complex ann antar , found within all jeena komiie , that serves as the prathak site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes kadi amino acids together in the order nirt by maxar RNA ( mrna ) aoon .
Ribosomes consist of dho major kaa small ribosomal subunit reads the mrna , abki the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide kadi .
Each subunit is composed of one or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) molecules aor a variety of proteins .
The sequence of diyne ancoii liya a protin may be kapi many times into messenger RNA ( mrna ) chains of a saaman sequence .
ribosomes can bind to an mrna chain aor use it as a template for determining the correct sequence of amnio acids in a particular protein .
amnio acids are chant , ekrtt aor carried to the ribosome by taraf rna ( trna aoon ) , which enter eke part of the ramoo and bind to the maxar rna kadi .
the salaan amino acids are tab linked together by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protein is produced , it can then 'fold ' to produce a specific functional three-dimensional structure .
A ribosome is bana from complexes of RNAs and proteins and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ribosome is viat into two subunits : the choti subunit bantaa to the mrna pattern , abki the larger subunit banta to the tRNA aor the amnio acids .
jajb a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA ano , yaa two subunits viat apart .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase activity kiya links amino acids together is performed by the ribosomal rna .
Ribosomes isse jivou , arkiya and eukaryotes ( the three domen of life on darti ) differ in their akar , anurm , dacha , and the anpat of protein to rna .
the differences in structure allow some antibiotics to kill bacteria by inhibiting their ribosomes , while leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria aor archaea , more than one ramoo may move along a singl mrna chain at one samay , pratke `` padna '' its sequence aor producing a corresponding protin molecule .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble anek shuvien of those in bacteria , reflecting the likely evolutionary utti of mitochondria .
alar Claude , Christian de duve , aor George Emil Palade yaud jointly awarded the noolel pukra in physiology or Medicine , in 1974 , liya the discovery of the ribosomes .
the Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to venkatraman ramanh , Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the vista dhana aor mechanism of the ramoo .
The simplified internal structure of a thrlaka
awako of the calvin cycle and carbon fixation
the light-independent reactions of photosynthesis hain chemical reactions kiya convert carbon dasio and other compounds into glock .
These pration occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a thrlakal bahar of the thylakoid lilhon .
These reactions louo the light-dependent pration and perform further chemical prinion on them .
vahi are tinn phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively pukra the Calvin saylk : carbon fixation , katate pration , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite isko naam , this process occurs tabhi jajb layit is apaalin .
Plants do not carry out the Calvin saall by night .
vey , bajay , release sucrose into the phloem isse their mand reserves .
This prakm happens when light is available swaatr of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 karbann fixation , c4 carbon fixation , aor crassulacean esid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants storr malic acid in their vacuoles every night aor release it by day in anurm to make inse process karya .
In mathematics , a square cramak or purna vargar is an integer that is the square of an purnk ; in other words , it is the utp of some integer saah itself .
For example , 9 is a varar number , since it can be written as .
The usual santee for the formula liya the varar of a cramak is not the utp , but the smatll exponentiation , usually pronounced as `` varar '' .
the naam varar cramak comes isse the name of the shape ; see below .
varar numbers hain non-negative .
Another rasta of saying that a ( non-negative ) number is a varar number , is that its square jadey are again integers .
liya udarnn , = kaa , so 9 is a square cramak .
A positive integer that raai no purna varar divisors except 1 is called square-free .
For a non-negative integer , the th varar number is , with being the zeroth square .
The ahdra of square can be vistar to kuch other number systems .
If rational sakhnn are included , taba a square is the ratio of dho varar integers , and , conversely , the ratio of two varar integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , there are square numbers up to aor including , where the expression represents the manjil of the cramak .
The Era of shoh jambat hinnt a period in the political history of the United States that reflected a chav of national purpose and a desire for ekta among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic yddonn .
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist parti and an smapt to the bitter partisan disputes between it and the prabpll democratic-republican party dauran the pahlo parti prali .
President jems Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan sandh in banana his nominations , with the pram goal of national ekta aor eliminating parties altogether isse nashl rajanti .
the period is so closely associated saahh muroo 's presidency ( kaa ) and his administrative goals that his naam and the era are vasth synonymous .
The era of shoh Feelings marked a transition in American politics with the end of the Federalist parti as America began to develop bada the War of 1812 .
abki America thay experiencing growth aor prosperity after the war saah Britain , inse era also marks the first udarnn of artheck troubles in the growing sont States .
Mirroring the amri System proposed by Henry mitti , protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United States complicated the tension between the utar and South saahh the coming of the pahlo financial sanket .
abki the pada kaa of Good kaa is usually viewed saah vidna because of the raaatic turmoil , economic carom caused animosity between the North and South .
The designation of the period by historians as one of kaa kaa is praha conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the history of the era was one in jisse the political mahal was strained and divisive , especially among factions within the Monroe administration aor the Republican Party .
the phrase kaa of Good kaa was coined by bennnn Russell , in the Boston Federalist newspaper , Columbian centinel , on julaya 12 , 1817 , following muroo 's vike to Boston , Massachusetts as part of his good hoga daura of America .
mariel marge `` Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is a riated American professional sokar player .
Hamm played many years as a forward for the United States women 's national soccer team and was a founding member of the vashitnn Freedom .
hamm scored 158 anthriy goals , more than khoi other player , male or maada , in the ithes of soccer aor is the tisra most capped female khili in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly aor cristil rampone , appearing in 275 international milane .
hamm was namit the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the pahlo two times kiya pukkar thay diye ( in 2001 aor 2002 ) , and is listed as one of phfa 's 125 best jeena khili ( as chosen by kaa ) .
dho thay inducted into the National Soccer ghol of Fame as well as the Alabama Sports Hall of kitri and tecas Sports Hall of Fame .
She is the lakkk of Go liya the Goal : a chain 's Guide to jitna in Soccer aor jivan and appeared in the HBO virtir himat to Dream : The Story of the u.S. malaon 's sokar Team .
vashitnn Post columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm , `` Perhaps the most marhan khili of the pichla 15 years . ''
hamm takes a corner laata .
The nayi York Red Bulls is an American professional sokar toli aarat in Harrison , New Jersey , representing the New York metropolitan chartel .
The team competes in the Eastern smalne of Major League sokar ( MLS ) .
It is one of the ten chatr clubs of mls , having competed in the ling since isko inception .
the toli thay a founding member of mls ( 1996 ) , but raai gayi through several name changes .
The team thay originally known as the nayi York/New Jersey metrostars through 1997 .
isse the 1998 ritu through the 2005 ritu , the toli thay gyat as the metrostars .
on March 9 , 2006 , the team was sold to redd Bull GmbH , agri to the toli 's current name .
vey are the only asli mls mathar nahi to have won khoi significant trophy ( including nimat ritu , playoffs , and naat competition ) since inception .
the team 's behtin result in the mls was the mls Cup final in 2008 .
In the US khole Cup , the metrostars reached tinn semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , before reaching their first phaila in 2003 , khone kaa to the Chicago aag .
on August 26 , 2000 , the Metros ' cletin mathis set an mls record by scoring pach goals in a game against the Dallas barna .
kuch well-known players that have played for the team include giovanni Savarese , timat hard , toni meola , tab Ramos , Alexi lalas , cllit mathis , jozy altidore , maical Bradley , Claudio Reyna , Eddie paap , rabtot Donadoni , Lothar kaa , aafooe Valencia , youri Djorkaeff , Amado Guevara , Juan pablo kaa , thierry Henry , Juninho Pernambucano , jean gunar solli , Rafael maase , and Tim kahil .
The team raai bhii thaa well-known kuch , including Carlos Queiroz , carlos Alberto Parreira , bura kaa , Bob Bradley , Mo johnston , Bruce Arena and hans backe .
confucianism , taoism , aor buddhism are one , a painting in the litang style portraying tinn meen hans by a river strim , 12th sadi , Song Dynasty .
estimating the cramak of Buddhists in the world , or in many countries , is muskl due to definitional issues as khoo as warik problems of enumeration .
to begin saah , the religious matton , practices , aor identities of East Asians ( who comprise the majority of the world 's baddo by any mea ) praha mishri Buddhism with anya paraon sahit Confucianism , the Chinese folk religion , Daoism , Shinto , and Korean shamanism .
sabse followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as taking Refuge , making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
an additional chonti is the hostility of anek nashl sarke ( praha Communist ones aisa as China or North korri ) to religion generally or to buddhism specifically .
sarkr netoon in these deso may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of dharm adherence , resulting in adhak totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these deso .
anman of the wisy baddh population range from 350 lakho to over one arab , but cluster nearer to the first pigar .
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 million .
By major branches , the sakhnn are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana buddhism , sahit East asyyi Buddhism , with no kaam than 185 lakho adherents , and possibly anek tammis that anek ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the predominant roop of Buddhism practiced in chhin , South Korea , Japan , Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism , with no fewer than 125 million adherents .
inse is the predominant form of buddhism practiced in candabia , thaldh , Laos , Sri Lanka , and barma .
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism , with approximately 20 lakho adherents .
This form predominates in the greater Tibetan aor Mongolian regions , as khoo as in the himle .
Besides the swantr countries of Mongolia and Bhutan , and various territories bhitr what is abhi western chhin , jarva is pragat to nisht regions of Russia ( e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . ladkh , sikk ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
jaran , also known as tibbi Buddhism , is often conflated saah tantik Buddhism , but inse is imprecise , as Shingon and other forms of istt Asian buddhism also practice tantra .
At tanik 7 deso ( Sri Lanka , thaldh , candamaa , laaos , barma , Bhutan , aor Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese aor other East asyyi adherents , this pigar might expand to include anek more countries .
in addition , buddhism is the raay religion of candiya and butun , and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri lanka .
In northern India and nepail , the land where Buddhism was born , the religion severely declined during the pahlo millennium .
Whether inse manhi was due to the Islamic conquest of utare India , or to other carom , remains controversial .
dekhi the article Decline of buddhism in India .
jems baller Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 kaa August 2 , 1876 ) , better known as genle Bill hickok , was a lauk hero of the amri Old West .
uske skills as a gunfighter aor scout , along saah his reputation as a lawman , provided the basis for his fame , halki some of uske reported karna hain fictionalized .
Born aor raised on a farm in gramin Illinois , Hickok went west at age 18 as a fugitive from justice , pahlo working as a stagecoach driver , before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of kansans and nabra .
He lada for the Union Army during the American Civil hudd , and gained publicity after the war as a skat , marksman , karta , aor professional gambler .
between his law-enforcement duties and juye , jisse easily overlapped , Hickok thay involved in anek notable shootouts .
He thay shat aor maare while playing poker in the nuttal & mann 's Saloon in Deadwood , Dakota Territory ( now South kata ) .
Artist 's dharna of the Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on mangl .
The rover utara on magal in agst 2012 .
A Mars rover is an automated mutr vehicle which propels itself aar the surface of the planet magal after landing .
Rovers have anek advantages over stationary landers : vey examine adhek territory , they can be nishan to dilap features , they can place themselves in suni sthai to masam winter mahino and vey can advance the gyann of how to perform bhoot rimat rotic gadi control .
There have been haar successful robotically sanhlit Mars rovers .
The jeete nodn Laboratory managed the magal Pathfinder mission aor its abhi inactive sojourner rover .
it filal manages the Mars Exploration Rover mishan 's active Opportunity rover and niskhr spiet , and , as bhag of the mangl vigaan Laboratory mishan , the Curiosity rover .
a financial audit , or adhek accurately , an audit of financial statements , is the satan of the vittiy kathan of a legal antii , saahh a dras to express an audit raai .
The audit raai is intended to provide reasonable parkh , lackin not absolute parkh , that the vittiy statements are presented fairly , in all samri respects , and/or give a true and fair dras in accordance saah the financial roptoning framework .
The purpose of an aedit is provide and objective swaat praksa of the financial statements , which increases the maana aor credibility of the vittiy statements produced by management , thus increase user confidence in the vittiy statement , reduce investor rark and natane reduce the cost of punje of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits hain typically performed by firms of practicing accountants who are visha in vittiy reporting .
the financial aedit is one of anek prakh rutti provided by accounting firms .
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors , who do nahi attest to vittiy ripatos but focus mukth on the atric controls of the organization .
External auditors may choose to place simit reliance on the karya of atric auditors .
Auditing promotes parsa aor accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an organization , isle would likely to reduce of aisa corporations to chipat unscrupulous dealings .
internationally , the anthriy manko on Auditing ( ISA ) issued by the anthriy auditing and Assurance Standards falak ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark liya audit process .
Almost all jurisdictions aakta auditors to follow the ISA or a local variation of the isa .
Dollar coins have been minted in the United raay in sunhar , silver , aor adhar metal versions .
The term silver dollar is often used liya khoi large white metal coin gari by the United States with a phans maana of one dollar , halki purists zidd that a doller is not silver unless it contains kuch of that metal .
Silver dollars , the first dollar coin issue , were minted beginning in 1794 .
Gold doller and gold-colored dollars have also marhu itpid by the sont States .
the Sacagawea aor Presidential dollars are praha referred to as `` golden dollars '' .
In adhunk tamiam , dollar coins have nahi been very popular in the sont raay .
despite efforts by the sarki to prahr their use , sabse amrie currently use the eke dollar dheek rather than dollar sikke .
In straight aor level udan lift ( L ) barai wazan ( W ) .
In a banked farr of kaa , lift equals double the weight ( L=2W ) .
the palte experiences 2g and a doubled weight .
The steeper the bank , the greater the g-forces .
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate from zero to in 0.86 seconds .
inse is a horizontal twarn of 5.3 g. sont saah the vertical g-force in the stationary mamla the Pythagorean theorem yields a g fors of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g isse gravitational ) is a term for accelerations felt as weight aor measurable by accelerometers .
it is not a force , prti se , lackin a fors per unit draman .
Since such a fors is aaaas as a weight , any g-force can be varn as a `` weight per unit mass '' ( see the parya vishit wazan ) .
The g-force acceleration adhiomon as a gunk of weight-like forces for every kayi of an object 's draman , aor ( shej liya nisht elarctitinn force praaav ) is the karna of an object 's twan in sandh to free-fall .
This acceleration experienced by an object is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational shatiya acting on an object free to mowa .
The accelerations that hain not produced by gravity hain termed uchat accelerations , aor it is only yaa that are measured in g-force units .
vey cause tanoo aor strains on objects .
cumi of these strains , large g-forces may be destructive .
gravitation acting alone kurta not produce a g-force , even though g-forces hain expressed in multiples of the twarn of a standard gravity .
Thus , the maank gurakh acceleration at the darti 's surface produces g-force only indirectly , as a result of resistance to it by mechanical shatiya .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the darti 's surface is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward disha by the ground , keeping the aakt from going into free-fall .
The upward fors from the maidan ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition , which is the paath kiya the aakt hota follow jajb falling freely toward the Earth 's center .
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only , mahus no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions ander a freely girna lifti falling toward the Earth 's bech ( in vacuum ) , or ( to good approximation ) sharte inside a spacecraft in darti sasha .
These are examples of coordinate acceleration ( a badle in gati ) bagar a sannn of weight .
The anu of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is utpit , is synonymous saahh weightlessness .
in the aunsith of gravitational fields , or in directions at right angles to them , proper and nerakh accelerations hain the same , and khoi coordinate acceleration must be produced by a samnin g-force twan .
an udarnn here is a rocket in free space , in jisse saral changes in velocity are produced by the injan , and produce g-forces on the rocket aor passengers .
An augur holding a lituus , the curved wand often used as a pretikh of augury on roman coins
the augur thay a pujari and official in the classical world , vishar ancient roma and etruria .
uske main role was to interpret the hoga of the devat by adhn the flight of pashyon : whether they hain flying in smoh or alone , kaya noises they make as vey fly , direction of udan and what kind of birds they are .
inse was known as `` taking the auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was contrl to khoi major undertaking in Roman kaa or kaa matters of hudd , commerce , aor religion .
The Roman historian livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who does not know that inse nuagar thay founded tabhi after taking the auspices , that subk in war and in peace , at home and abroad , was done tabhi bada taking the auspices ? ''
farmington phaan is an affluent community in southeastern mixagnn .
It is the duori largest city in alcold County in the U.S. state of Michigan .
isko population was 79,740 at the 2010 yankise .
it is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan detr and is also puotar of downtown Ann arbor .
Farmington phaan consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in the United raay , as well as in the state of mixangn .
in 2010 , the area ranked as the 30th safest nuagar in America .
Although the two cities have prath services and pata , Farmington and farmington Hills hain often vichar of as the same jatio .
chuvien of the jatio include a recently renovated downtown , boutiques , a venteje seema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , wart galri , aor public parks including virta Park .
There are several historical sites sahit the longacre House aor the Governor Warner Mansion .
dano sharmo are parosa by Farmington palcie slooo .
Farmington phaan serves as a major caaar center liya the greater detr area .
Present-day chhap of a Late kansyan Age seal
Town seal ( mentric ) of kaa from 1570
A seal is a device for banana an impression in wax , clay , paper , or some other media , including an embossment on paper , and is also the impression thus made .
The original purpose thay to authenticate a document , a wrapper for eke such as a adhuok envelope , or the cover of a saahak or package holding valuables or other savtt .
The sealing process is essentially kiya of a mould , saahh the final image represented on the antar liya making the impression by a mirror-image design , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) rahta or intaglio .
the seal-making device is also referred to as the seal matrix or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or , adhek rarely , the sealing ) .
If the chhap is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where the unche bhag of the matrix tach , the seal is known as a shusk seal ; in seb anya cases a drav or liquified media ( such as ink or wax ) is prutt , praha in another color than the paper .
liya vidak purposes , the definition of a seal may be extended to shaml barr stamps , or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` l.s . `` ) .
In the sont raay , the sabd `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal denain ( in monochrome or ranga ) , which may be used in a variety of contexts including architectural jamte , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal of the United raay , among other uppg , appears on the revar of the one-dollar dheeek ; aor several of the seals of the u.S. states appear on their sandhi state flags .
In Europe , halki coats of bahi and heraldic badges may well feature in aisa contexts as khoo as on seals , the muhrr design in isko entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The padhi of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics .
Groundhog Day ( Pennsylvania German : grundsaudaag , murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2 .
according to loukt , if it is cloudy jajb a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will come jaldi ; if it is sunny , the groundhog hoga supposedly see isko chaya and retreat back into its burrow , and the winter masam hoga continue for six adhek sapath .
Modern customs of the holiday involve celebrations where jaldi morning taar are aagt to dekhe the groundhog emerging from its burrow .
in southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog lodges ( grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday saahh fersommlinge , social events in jisse food is parosa , speeches are bana , and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed liya entertainment .
the Pennsylvania jarmin dialect is the only bhasa spoken at the event , aor those who bolo angrij ada a penalty , praha in the form of a nickel , dime , or cwar prti word spoken , saahh the money put into a catro in the bech of the table .
The largest Groundhog Day celebration is held in punxsutawney , penalcav .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and popular paraa , received widespread attention as a result of the 1993 film Groundhog dena , jisse thay set in Punxsutawney , PA ( halki filmed primarily in Woodstock , il ) aor portrayed Punxsutawney phila .
High resolution hitrr of tampa Bay pradesh
The Tampa khadi area has a humid subtropical climate ( koppen Cfa ) , with warm aor humid summers with frequent thunderstorms and drier winters with freezing temperatures occurring every kaa xalo .
The area anoov a significant garman gila ritu , as nearly two-thirds of the salan precipitation japlat in the months of juon through sitabar .
the area is sadhh by the sonk States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) as being in hardiness zone 10 , which is prachy the utari seema of jaha coconut haliian and royal haliian can be grown .
highs praha daura between 65 and 95 kaa ( 18 aor 35 kaa ) year galar .
Though gyat liya hot gresh , Tampa 's official high has never phonch 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the city 's all-time record tapan is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
St. Petersburg 's all-time record unche is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between tampa khadi and the Gulf of Mexico , and much of the city of tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting out into tampa Bay .
inse nikta to large bodies of water both moderates temperatures and introduces large amounts of ardaa into the mahlo .
In general , the local communities farthest isse the coast have larger temperature siemon , dano dauran a single day aor throughout the seasons of the saal .
A diagram of the elarctit nark , prish various properties aar the range of frequencies aor wavelengths
The elarctitin nark is the daura of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an aakt has a alag meaning , aor is bajay the characteristic vitran of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
the electromagnetic nark extends isse below the low frequencies used for adhuok rediyo communication to gamma vikrinn at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths isse thousands of kilometers bas to a binnn of the size of an ano .
the limit liya long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , abki it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the plaakk lambai , halic in principle the spectrum is anat aor nitra .
Most parts of the electromagnetic nark are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions , as trrke to padha aor characterize matter .
In jod , radiation from various parts of the spectrum has mila many anya uppg for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic vikrinn for more applications ) .
lende
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; janri 30 , 1882 kaa apryl 12 , 1945 ) , bhii known by his initials , fdr , was the 32nd President of the sont States ( kaa ) and a contrl pigar in world events dauran the mid-20th century , leading the United raay during a time of wipyi arthec vasad aor total war .
A prabpll nata of the Democratic parti and the only American president elected to adhek than dho sharte , he nirm a New sade ganbhann that realigned American politics after 1932 , as his domestic policies parah American liberalism for the madhy third of the 20th sadi .
With the bouncy popular sog `` prann Days Are Here Again `` as his aiaan theme , FDR prrat lalima Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the ghrri of the Great Depression .
sacriaa by uske personal victory over polio , fdr 's unfailing optimism and sacrtaor contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
he worked closely with angoe Prime mantri Winston charchl aor Soviet samay Secretary Joseph stalin in leading the Allies against Germany aor Japan in World hudd II , aor restoring prosperity to the swash 's arvasha .
In his first hundred days in daftar , which began March 4 , 1933 , rujvelt spearheaded prmuk legislation and gari a profusion of executive orders that instituted the nayi sade kaa kismo of programs designed to produce relief ( sarki karya for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic vikas ) , and sudhar ( through vinnim of waale Street , banko and transportation ) .
The arvasha improved rapidly isse 1933 to 1937 , but taba relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan rudhid Coalition kiya formed in 1937 prevented uske packing the Supreme Court or gujer any considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the rahta programs jajb unemployment diminished dauran World hudd ii .
Most of the regulations on caaar were ended about kaa , except for the regulation of Wall goli by the proti and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
saahh saah anek smaller programs , prmuk surviving karm shaml the sanhhy Deposit bima nigm , jisse thay created in 1933 , aor Social Security , which corgens passed in 1935 .
as World hudd II loomed after 1938 , saah the Japanese arman of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany , FDR diya strong raaic and financial support to chhin aor Great Britain , abki remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to make amrraa the `` Arsenal of laktar `` jisse would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , rujvelt , with Congressional approval , provided Lend-Lease shota to the deso lada against naji Germany with Britain .
With bhoot strong national support , he bana hudd on Japan and jarmin after the japani arman on parl Harbor on dismar 7 , 1941 , calling it a `` date jisse will live in infamy `` .
he prveshat the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied hudd effort .
As an crisyol military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts kiya ended in the defeat of the ash Powers and the development of the world 's pahlo atom bomb .
In 1942 rujvelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , rahta programs largely ended , and the industrial arvasha grew rapidly to new hattas as millions of logo moved to nayi karya in war centers , aor 16 million men aor 300,000 malaon yhoo drafted or volunteered liya military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American raaatic saaki nahi only during the twelve xalo of his prissi , but bhii for saako afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of mataa that nirm the Fifth Party System .
fdr 's New sade ganbhann united labor unions , big city mashen , white ethnics , afri amri aor gramin swath Southerners .
He bhii influenced the later creation of the United Nations and bretton vuds .
rujvelt is consistently reated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents , along with Abraham lincoln aor zarg Washington .
A liberal dokrem , rujvelt defined uske ideological stith as `` a little left of bech . ''
a Joint Committee is a term in rajanti that is used to refer to a kameti bana up of members of dano saxhono of a bicameral nidla .
In other contexts , it refers to a committee saah saxy from adhek than eke organization .
the vinnin of vastiv in the sont raay is not among the enumerated powers of the federal sarki ; Under the Tenth amendment to the sont raay Constitution , it is isli exclusively the domain of the states to prrti , prohibit , or varna vinit commercial sex , magar insofar as Congress may regulate it as bhag of antrij comsar saah kann like the Mann adhinn .
In sabse states , vasti is maano a misdemeanor in the category of palcie anurm crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a community .
it was at one time maano to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , nafa is the only state to allow brothel vasti , the sharte of jisse are stipulated in the nafa Revised statutes .
tabhi 8 counties filal contain active brothels .
All forms of prostitution hain illegal in claak County ( jisse contains the lalaa kaa metropolitan chartel ) , Washoe County ( which contains reno ) , Carson City , dgals County , aor lincoln kanti .
The other kanti theoretically allow brothel prostitution , laciin kuch of these counties filal have no crisyol brothels .
Street vasti , `` pandering , '' aor jeena bandh of the proceeds of a vash remain illegal antra Nevada vidhi , as elsewhere in the country .
as with other deso , prostitution in the United States can be divided into three wapa categories : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , aor escort vastiv .
the national dwar of the United raay of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen barar horizontal stripes of redd ( top aor niche ) alternating saahh white , saah a blon rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` samnh '' ) bearing paaas small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine faster aada rows of chaa stars ( shers and bottom ) alternating saah pakti of pach stars .
The 50 stars on the dwar represent the 50 states of the United raay of amriaa aor the 13 stripes represent the tarh British colonies kiya hogti independence from the Kingdom of gree bretten aor became the pahlo states in the Union .
Nicknames for the dwag include the `` sitaoo and Stripes '' , `` budha Glory `` , and `` The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
India is a sanhhy samnh of states comprising twenty-eight raay aor saath union territories .
the states and territories are further subdivided into districts aor so on .
Congressional districts for the 113th United States Congress
2010 yankite change:
