A partly submerged himne cave on perito moroo himne .
the barf mukhar is lagch 60 m unchi
Ice formations in the titlis himne gufa
a himne gufa is a gufa formed bhitr the barf of a himne .
himne guffan hain praha pukra barf guffan , lackin inse pada is properly prutt to describe bedrock guffan kiya contain year-round barf .
in bhati , galar gati is a gati of an aakt saah the prrhida of a vrat or roteon saah a galar paath .
it can be vaddi , saah constant koni rayte of roteon ( aor nirtar gati ) , or non-uniform saah a badnaa rayte of rotaon .
the rotaon around a ficd assh of a three-dimensional deh involves galar gati of isko bhag .
the equations of motion describe the gati of the center of draman of a deh .
Examples of golar gati shaml : an crutrom ugrah orbiting the darti at constant unchi , a stoon jisse is tied to a rassi aor is hona swung in vrat , a car turning through a curve in a rees track , an ilcrlitnn chalti labtv to a vaddi chumbe fillad , aor a gier turning ander a yantii .
chunki the object 's gati vaktor is constantly badnaa disha , the chalti aakt is undergoing twan by a abhirri fors in the disha of the bech of rotaon .
bagar inse acceleration , the object hota mowa in a straight lakir , according to nutan 's kann of gati .
aplo panth is a fictional character isse the raki films , initially portrayed as the undisputed hevit Champion of the sanaar .
he thay niya by karle weathers .
panth thaa multiple nicknames , sahit the nupun of vipti , the kinning of stiin , the nacha vinsak , the Prince of panch , the eke aor Only aor the ginti of mote fisto .
shari lende states kiya aplo panth 's naam is a wordplay on the rulo ' panth , a bayan of visaa prutt in isyi charh .
seb of aplo 's champ jhade youd scheduled liya the 15 galar ulaa .
champis jadhe kiya nahi badle isse 15 rounds to 12 rounds aabak 1987 .
raki balwa is praha wrongly credited saah popularizing the redd , swath , aor bllu trunks ; panth thay the pahlo man to wear unhe ( latterly worn by raki Balboa in the 3rd aor 4th kistoo aor hakar by tamm `` the antar '' gunn ( tamm morsio ) in the 5th kist ) halik samnth he pahna redd aor swath , as seen in raki ii .
balwa 's hastar rango yaud blaec aor kaa he prutt in the navata film .
in the sont raay , the sherak of sanhhy ndeshi praha arth a ndeshy niak by the addhs of the sonte raay aor pushi by the sont raay Senate pursuant to the nitki clause in alekh ii of the sont raay swanhann .
in jod to the pram adalt of the United raay , jinke astivat aor kuch faluo of jinke chastar hain pura the swankh sakti of Congress to alter , adhiomon of corgens have sthtp 13 nyloy of appeals ( bhii pukra `` sakit nyloy '' ) saah appellate chastar over alag regions of the sont raay , aor 94 sont raay jila nyloy .
pratke ndeshy niak to aisa a adalt may be categorized as a sanhhy ndeshy ; aisa sthai shaml the mukhy ins aor sandh justices of the pram adalt , sakit dhythoin of the nyloy of appeals , aor district dhythoin of the sont raay jala nyloy .
seb of yaa dhythoin described yaun dhur hain referred to sometimes as `` aleh III dhythoin '' cuyi vey kasta the nyak sakti vested in the nyak shokh of the federal sarki by aleh iii of the U.S. swanhann .
in jod , dhythoii of the adalt of anthriy wapar kasat nyak sakti pursuant to aleh iii .
anya dhythoii seat in the federal nyloy , sahit jaxitertt nhythyo aor dipann dhythoin , hain also sometimes referred to as `` sanhhy dhythoin '' ; however , vey hain neither niak by the addhs nor pushi by the sinte , aor unko sackit garbhi isse Article i bajay .
dekhi alekh i aor aleh iii adrion .
the beretta 21a Bobcat is a choti pocket-sized semi-automatic pistl designed by beretta in itli .
utpann began in latt 1984 , solely in the beretta u.s.A. swida in Accokeek , mariland .
it is a further development of the beretta maal 20 , jinke utpann ended in 1985 .
paritive sarvik Life bima ( praha shortened to vul ) is a parkar of jivan bima kiya builds a nadi maana .
in a vul , the nadi maana can be invested in a chaude kismo of prttk accounts , saaman to prspar nidhe , aor the chana of jisse of the apaalan prath khate to upa is entirely up to the andhun malic .
the 'variable ' ghatak in the naam refers to inse khssta to invest in prath khate jinke maane kaa vary because vey hain invested in bhandar and/or bandh bajar .
the 'universal ' ghatak in the naam refers to the chlpaan the malic raai in banana premium bhugat .
the priemium can vary isse nothing in a diye maah up to maximums parah by the atric aaya kood liya jivan bima .
inse chlpaan is in canto to purre jivan bima kiya raai ficd priemium bhugat that typically can nahi be choti bagar lapsing the niti ( halki eke may kasta an Automatic priemium Loan visha , or atpan dividends to ada a purre jivan priemium ) .
parvitinn sarvik jivan is a parkar of sthai jivan bima , cuyi the death labh hoga be shusl if the insured marta any time as long as vahi is sufficient nadi maana to ada the lagat of bima in the niti .
saah sabse if nahi seb vuls , napans purre jivan , vahi is no endowment age ( the age at jisse the nadi maane barai the death labh rashi , jisse liya whole jivan is typically 100 ) .
inse is yet another kunje labh of vul over purre jivan .
saah a ther purre jivan niti , the mota labh is simit to the phans rashi nirt in the niti , aor at endowment aoo , the phans rashi is seb kiya is shusl out .
yaun saahh either moua or endowment , the bima compnni keeps khoi nadi maana nirm up over the xalo .
however , kuch participating purre jivan netyo prasav darsirs which batan that khoi dividends shulk on the niti be prutt to kharide `` shusl up prarwaran '' to the niti jisse badan both the nadi maana aor the mota labh over samay .
if nivesh bana in the prath khate out-perform the samay khata of the bima company , a uchar rate-of-return can occur than the ficd rates-of-return ther liya purre jivan .
the samon over the xalo of no endowment aoo , continually increasing mota benefit , aor if a unche rate-of-return is arj in the prath khate of a vul niti , inse could pranamn in uchar maana to the malic or lathare than kiya of a purre life niti with the vahi amounts of dhan shusl in as priemium .
the outdoor lacdi boiler is a variant of the clasic lacdi stov adapted liya set-up bahari abki sthil transferring the umsho to atricim imarte .
a mound of ladki skat kouk .
inse mound contains 74 baax of kouk
ladki skat kouk hain kouk bechi by ladke skat of the yusi ( GSUSA ) as eke of isko prmukh fundraisers liya laol skat units .
saanoy of the gsusa have marhu selling kouk chunki 1917 to hathe nidhe .
ladkoyan jau participate can earn pukra for unko pratan .
There hain bhii kayi patano if the kayi as a purre kurta khoo .
As of 2007 , bakri were anaut at about 200 lakho baax prti saal .
vilhoov ghol
purdue vilhoov , stith in vaste lafayette , india , is the lephis university of the six-campus purdue vilhoov pralil .
purdue thay sapit on may 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant university jajb the indian samay subha , taking labh of the morrill adhinn , swaqk a daane of land aor dhan isse lafayette businessman jaan Purdue to sthpt a kalag of science , prikii , aor agriculture in uske naam .
the pahlo varg yhoo aagt on sitabar 16 , 1874 , saah chaa instructors aor 39 vidhhi .
aage , purdue is a sasy of the biga teen smalne , aor is a khoo gyat world-class research santha .
purdue enrolls the duori largest chaar deh of khoi vishoo in india as khoo as the choth largest international chaar yankise of khoi vilhoov in the United raay .
purdue offers dano undergraduate aor greet karm in over 211 prmuk ctetto of padha , aor is khoo gyat liya isko competitive aariiii curricula .
the vilhoon has bhii marhu atdich influential in amriaa 's ithes of vimanin , having sthpt the pahlo kalag cretita offered in udan prahishan , the pahlo four-year stank 's upadi in vimanin , aor the first vishoon visaateer ( purdue vilhoov visanter ) .
Purdue 's vimanin prioki karm remains eke of the sabse competitive aviation-specific programs in the sanaar .
in the mid-20th sadi , purdue 's vimanin karm vistar to encompass unta spaceflight prikii giving vrdhi to purdue 's upna , palna of astronauts .
twenty-three Purdue graduates have gayi on to become astronauts , including ghg grissom ( eke of the asli para saath astronauts ) , neil Armstrong ( the pahlo witt to tulna on the moon ) , aor yujin cernan ( the sabse haal witt to walk on the chandrma ) .
A vasay gaath ( ) is a pada kiya loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( bhii gyat as epidermal cysts ; l72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( bhii gyat as trichilemmal cysts ; l72.1 ) .
cuyi an epidermoid gaath originates in the epidermis aor a pilar gaath originates isse iaal follicles , by paraha , neither parkar of gaath is sakti a sebaceous gaath .
the naam is regarded as a misnomer as the vasiy , swath , semi-solid samri in both of yaa gaath entities is nahi sebum , laciin keratin .
furthermore , antra the microscope neither entity contains vasay grehtno .
in abaas , however , the sharte hain praha prutt interchangeably .
`` sacha '' vasay cysts hain acrat wirle and hain gyat as steatocystomas or , if anek , as steatocystoma maltecees .
adhunk pointe jute .
The kinare of the toto pad , jisse is inserted between the paar aor touo box liya cushioning , can be dekhi on the sahi foot .
a pointe shoe is a type of juto worn by bele nartak jajb performing pointe karya .
pointe jute viksit isse the desire liya nartak to appear weightless aor sylph -like aor have viksit to enable dancers to nrt en pointe ( on the nuske of unko toes ) liya vistar avhdi of samay .
vey hain samnth worn by mada nartak , halki pursh nartak may wear unhe for arap bioan aisa as the bhada stepsisters in sindr , niche in a midsummer ratri 's sapna , or meen performing as mahlo in nrt compannon aisa as lesa natkom trockadero aor Grandiva .
vey hain manufactured in a kismo of rango , sabse commonly in sheds of layit lulai .
inse tablespoon has a khshta of prrchy 15 ml .
measuring spoons
in the us aor bhag of kanda , a tablespoon is the largest parkar of macha prutt liya khane isse a bowl .
in the uk , uoriyp aor sabse dhartal deso , a tablespoon is a parkar of visal macha praha prutt liya seat .
In deso where a tablespoon is a seat macha , the nitaom smatll to the us tablespoon is either the mitha macha or the seap macha .
a tablespoonful , nominally the khsta of one tablespoon , is commonly prutt as a mea of aage in cuking .
it is abbreviated as t , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
the khshta of ordinary tablespoons is nahi regulated by vidhi aor is vishy to considerable variation .
In the yusy eke tablespoon ( mapan kayi ) is lagch 15 ml ; the khsta of an actual tablespoon ( daining utensil ) ranges isse 7 ml to 14 ml .
in Australia eke tablespoon ( mapan kayi ) is 20 ml .
hairi Potter is a shari of saath calpick novels lika by the angoj lakkk J. K. Rowling .
the kitab vrat the adventures of a judg , hairi kumar , aor uske mitro rold vigle aor Hermione grenjer , seb of zisko hain vadhi at gorvart sula of chooll aor wizardry .
the prmuk stori chhap chiyten hairi 's cweste to overcome the adhera judar rab voldemort , jinke aims hain to become amar , jite the wizarding sanaar , subjugate non-magical logo , aor nasht seb those jau stand in uske rasta , vishar hairi kumar .
chunki the reezl of the pahla ankh hairi kumar and the paros 's stoon on 30 juon 1997 , the kitab have gained immense laccaria , naun acclaim aor wyniik kama wipyi .
the shari raai bhii thaa kuch share of alcha , sahit chinta liya the increasingly adhera tono .
, the kitab shari raai bechi prachy 450 lakho naal , banana it the best-selling book shari in ithes , and raai marhu andut into 67 bhaan .
the last haar kitab consecutively niyat raadar as the fastest-selling kitab in ithes .
a shari of anek jata , sahit calpick aor coming of aoo ( with tatv of rahs , thirl , adherer , aor romance ) , it raai anek santric meanings and sandhr .
according to roling , the prmuk thema is mota .
vahi hain bhii anek other vist in the shari , aisa as purva aor bhathar .
the araic prmuk publishers of the kitab you bloomsbury in the sont kidam aor scholastic dabae in the United raay .
the kitab have since marhu prik by anek prakk wisy .
the books , saah the satva kitab split into dho bhag , have been bana into an eight-part filli shari by warner bhai satve , the highest-grossing filli shari of all samay .
the shari bhii originated much tie-in merchandise , banana the hairi kumar brand layak in excess of $ 15 arab .
bhii due to the kama of the kitab aor films , hairi kumar raai marum used liya a thema paak , the wizarding sanaar of Harry kumar in sarvik paak & rist 's ailedens of adherer .
RS-68 hona tested at NASA 's Stennis sgec bech .
the nearly parse exhaust is due to inse injan 's exhaust hona jyadar attp bhap ( jala waah from isko propellants , hardanin aor oxipinn )
viking 5c prasta injan
a rocket injan , or baase `` prasta '' , is a jeete injan kiya uppg tabhi nandrrt propellant draman for forming isko high gati propulsive jeet .
prasta injan hain pratio engines and obtain thrust in accordance saahh nutan 's tisra vidhi .
chunki vey need no baha material to roop unko jeet , prasta injan can be prutt for spacecraft propulsion as khoo as terrestrial upag , aisa as mixale .
sabse prastr injan are atric dhan injan , halki non-combusting form bhii exist .
prasta injan as a smoh have the highest exhaust gatti , hain by dhur the lightest , lackin hain the tanik propellant kosal of seb parkar of jeet injan .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' is a sog by amri reacirdin clakar britney sgyps .
it parosa as Spears 's deybue singl aor sherak track isse uske debu studio ellam , ... Baby eke adhek samay ( 1999 ) .
lika by Max Martin aor idtit by martin aor Rami , `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' thay released on September 30 , 1998 , by jive rikar .
bada reacirdin and sending a demo tep saah an aurt sog isse toni braxton , sgars hastir a multi-album sade saah jive .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' is a tinn paap aor dance-pop sog kiya refers to a ladki jau sentph tokar up saah uske borrfandex .
the sog prapt generally favorable samichena isse achoon , jau praised isko samon .
`` ... baby One adhek Time '' attained wash kama , reaching cramak eke in every desh it charted .
it bhii prapt numerous certifications around the sanaar , aor is eke of the best-selling singles of seb samay , saah over 10 lakho naal bechi .
an accompanying muck veeo , nisdh by nigal land , portrays sgaps as a chaar isse a Catholic unchi sula , jau starts to daydream kiya dho is gaaon aor nacha around the school , abki watching uske priemimm beaj isse afar .
the muck veeo thay later sandhti in the moc veeo of `` if u talas ami `` ( 2008 ) , jaha sgaps 's fictional daughter is vash saah a saaman schoolgirl phnao abki wearing lulai ribbons in uske iball .
in 2010 , the muc veeo liya `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' thay voted the third sabse influential veeo in the ithas of paap muck , in a paal aagt by jam ! .
sgaps raai performed `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' in a cramak of seav diwaae aor in seb of her concert toor .
it thay the encore of the ... Baby eke adhek samay daura ( 1999 ) aor sapna bhitr a Dream daura ( 2001 ) ; sgaps bhii performed remixed versions of the sog dauran the uuff ! ...
i kiya It again sanaar daura ( 2000 ) , the gomed ghol daura ( 2004 ) , the m+m 's daura ( 2007 ) , the cars abhin britney sgaps ( 2009 ) , aor the femme fatale daura ( 2011 ) .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' thay nominated liya a grami pukrar liya behtin maada paap gaaon prashan , aor raai marhu shaml in suhhin by blender , roling stoon aor vh1 .
It raai marum vika liya redefining the dhani of latt 1990s muck .
sgaps raai namit `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' as eke of uske panda songs isse uske karir .
it thay bhii the phaila sog to be niya on the bisi 's muck karm shers of the baute .
haja is an sankar in the choti aant caused by the bacterium vibrio cholerae .
the prmuk lashan hain watery atarar aor ulti .
hatran occurs primarily by drinking jala or khane khana kiya raai marhu contaminated by the feces ( barbad utp ) of an sankit witt , sahit eke saah no apparent lashan .
the garrtt of the diarrhea aor ulti can seese to repid nirzan aor electrolyte imbalance , aor mota in kuch mamle .
the prathak upaar is mauk pulkir chikta , typically saah oral pulkir saaaan , to badle jala aor ilarictes .
if inse is nahi tolerated or karta not provide sudhar teze prapt , intravenous fluids can bhii be prutt .
jirvunde dawaon hain beneficial in those saahh kathor disease to shorten isko duration aor severity .
wisy , it affects kaa million logo aor kanari kaa mauto a saal .
haja thay eke of the earliest infections to be padhi by epidemiological vidhi .
the hitrr of Dorian dhuser is the tabhi prik ankh by askar wall , appearing as the seese stori in lippincott 's masik patricoa on 20 joon 1890 , mudri as the julay 1890 samny of inse patricoa .
the patricaa 's sampadc feared the stori was abrr as supad , so vey censored roughly 500 sabd , bagar wall 's gyann , pahlo prankan .
lackin bhii saah that , the stori thay sthil greeted saah arrosh by angoe reviewers , some of kisko sujay kiya wall chahe be prosecuted on moral grounds , agri wall to caaav the ankh aggressively in letters to the angoe dabae .
wall bada shandit the stori liya kitab pranan , banana substantial alterations , hatna controversial passages , adding new chapters and sahit an aphoristic preface jisse raai chunki become prishad in isko own sahi .
the amended sankan thay prik by vard , tala aor Company in April 1891 .
kuch vedon manana kiya wall hota aage have chahe us to pada the sankan he originally supad to lippincott 's .
the anko tells of a yag man namit dorrin dhuser , the vish of a penting by clakar Basil hallward .
besll is impressed by dorrin 's sandar aor becomes infatuated saah ussy , believing uske sandar is jimer liya a nayi vidhi in uske wart .
Dorian meets rab hanir wotton , a dost of besil 's , aor becomes enthralled by rab hanir 's sanaar view .
espousing a nayi hedonism , Lord hanir suggests the only things layak pursuing in jivan hain sandar aor fulfilment of the hosh .
realizing kiya eke dena uske sandar hoga fika , dorrin ( whimsically ) expresses a khash to bech his attm to ensure the porte besll raai chitr hota aoo blki than he .
Dorian 's kosh is fulfilled , aor when he subsequently pursues a jivan of vilat , the porte serves as a smarn of the praaav each adhinn raai upon uske attm , saah pratk seen prishit as a disfigurement of uske roop , or through a chhan of vadaa .
the hitrr of dorrin dhuser is maano a karya of clasic ghtick fiction saah a madar faustian theme .
kaa kaa ( born 6 farr 1917 ) , gyat as zor zor gabbar ( ) , is a hangrr -born amri aahit jau acted in supporting bioan in fillo , on brawade , aor occasionally on talvin .
gabbar thay bhii a socialite .
dho began uske stes karir in veya at aoo 15 , aor thay pahana mixa hangrr in 1936 .
dho emigrated to the sont raay in 1941 aor became a sought-after aahit saah `` uoriyp fluer aor sthali '' , saah a ittv kiya `` exuded arshan aor angh '' .
Her pahlo film role thay as supporting aahit in paare to dekh at .
dho bada acted in we 're nahi shada !
aor niya eke of her few agri bioan in moulin rooj ( 1952 ) , nishan by jaan hastan , jau varn uske as a `` creditable '' aahit .
besides uske filli aor talvin diwaae , dho is behatin gyat liya having nano pattoy , sahit ghol marhhari condar hilat aor karta zarg sendrs .
dho akar stated , `` meen have sada liked me aor I have sada liked meen .
lackin i jaise a mannish man , a man jau knows kasa to vaat to aor davat a stri kaa nahi baae a man saah muscles . ''
bross liele ( pragat : kaa ; born liele Jun-fan ; 27 nambar 1940 kaa 20 July 1973 ) thay a chaizing amri martial clakar , karta , martial kela prash , paros , aor fillar .
the saapas of jeet kune do , liele thay the bete of cantonese apparo sthar liele hoi-chuen .
he is widely maano by commentators , achoon , midaa aor anya martial calaom to be eke of the sabse influential martial caloom of seb samay , aor a paap santi pretekh of the 20th sadi .
He is praha credited with helping to badle the way ashiya yaud presented in amri films .
liele thay born in chaunn , sein fanko on 27 nambar 1940 to aarabhe isse hong Kong aor thay utha in kolon with uske pravar aabak his latt khstor .
he thay introduced to the filli udgo by uske pita aor appeared in anek films as a chailadd karta .
liele sthrn to the sont raay at the aoo of 18 to prapt uske higher sikka , aor it was dauran inse samay kiya he began shikn martial kela .
uske hong kaang aor holid upaj films elevated the pragat hong kaang martial arts film to a nayi sthrr of laccariat aor acclaim , sparking a surge of beaj in Chinese martial kela in the vaste in the 1970s .
the disha aor tono of uske films badala aor baawa martial kela aor martial kela films in hong kaang and the baaki of the world .
He is vika liya uske bioan in pach feature-length films : lo veyi 's the biga boss ( 1971 ) aor mutti of foori ( 1972 ) ; Way of the drann ( 1972 ) , nisdan aor written by liele ; warner bhoyo ' daale the drann ( 1973 ) aor the khel of mota ( 1978 ) , dano nisdan by rabtr clouse .
liele became an iconic pigar gyat throughout the sanaar , vishar among the chainnnj , as he portrayed chaizin rashad in uske films .
he initially prish in wing chun , lackin bada rejected well-defined martial wart shalin , favouring bajay the upag of catcoon isse vinnin srot , in the spiet of uske neeji martial kela dasnrr , jisse he utle jeet kune Do ( the rasta of the intercepting mutti ) .
liele aagt duol nagrat of hong kaang and the sonte raay .
he died in kolon tong on 20 julaya 1973 at aoo 32 .
dirlic obstructive pulmonary bimar ( copd ) , bhii gyat as dirlcil obstructive peeon bimar ( thanda ) , dirlc obstructive airway disease ( COAD ) , dirlcil airflow limitation ( calori ) and dirlic obstructive respiratory bimar ( cord ) , is the occurrence of dirlcil brentic or emphysema , a jodi of commonly co-existing rogo of the fefede in jisse the aerve narrow over samay .
inse hud airflow to and isse the fefede , causing shortness of saans ( dyspnea ) .
in nadic abaas , copd is parah by isko characteristically kaam airflow on peeon jalne prashan .
in canto to dama , inse limitation is poorly reversible aor praha gets progressively badtar over samay .
copd is caused by noxious ano or giss , sabse commonly from tamboo dhorpan , jisse triggers an abnormal jalne jawab in the peeon .
the nidan of COPD requires peeoo jalne prashan .
marhan prabhann ranti hain dhorpan cessation , vaccinations , punars , and drug chikta ( praha using inhalers ) .
kuch merij go on to aakta long-term oxinine chikta or peeon pratan .
wipsy , copd crem as the chate agrin cause of mota in 1990 .
it is prast to become the choth agri karnne of mota wipyi by 2030 , due to an badan in dhorpan daro and yansit pravatin in anek deso .
COPD is the tisra agri karnne of mota in the u.S. , aor the arthec bujh of copd in the u.S. in 2007 thay $ 42.6 arab in swast paava lagat aor khoya utda .
annelies `` aani '' maare fenk ( , ? , ; 12 juon 1929early kuch 1945 ) is eke of the sabse discussed yhod piditoo of the holocaust .
uske dayre raai marhu the adhar liya anek plays aor films .
born in the nuagar of Frankfurt am prmuk in viira jarmin , dho jiya sabse of uske jivan in or nikat addmast , in the nidlandr .
Born a jarni nasal , fenk lost her nagrat in 1941 .
dho gained anthriy kitri maran bada uske diary thay prik .
it dastav uske anoov chapan during the jarni occupation of the Netherlands in sanaar hudd ii .
The fenk privar sthrn isse jarni to addmast in 1933 , the year the nazis gained contol over jarni .
by the shurt of 1940 , vey yhoo funn in addmast by the naji occupation of the niddlendr .
as persecutions of the yohu yankise increased in julay 1942 , the puria gari into chapan in the chupa sashi of aani 's pita , otto fenk 's , daftr bhann .
bada dho xalo , the smoh thay gadri aor transported to visha seero .
aani fenk aor uske sister , margot , yaud hakar transferred to the bergen-belsen visha seer , jaha vey died of senath in kuch 1945 .
otto fenk , the tabhi utri of the puriar , lauta to Amsterdam after the war to dhonse kiya aani 's dayre thaa marum saved , aor uske pratan led to isko pranan in 1947 .
it thay andut isse its asli bach aor pahlo prik in English in 1952 as The dayre of a anga ladki .
it raai chunki marhu andut into anek bhaan .
the dayre , jisse thay diye to aani on uske 13th birthday , crensll uske jivan isse 12 joon 1942 until 1 agst 1944 .
karte 's hastar
karte dond kobo ( farr 20 , 1967 kaa apryl 5 , 1994 ) thay an amri santarr aor clakar , best gyat as the seese singar , guitarist aor prathak songwriter of the grunge bend nirvan .
kobo formed nirvan saah krist novoselic in bardin , vashitn in 1985 aor sthtp it as bhag of the sital muck saaki , having isko debu allam bleech released on the swatt rekar lable sub paap in 1989 .
bada hastar saah prmuk leble dgc raadar , the band found bhann kama with `` khoob jaise tinn strit `` isse isko duori ellam nevermind ( 1991 ) .
following the kama of nevermind , nirvan thay labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation x , and Cobain hailed as `` the parka of a pedhe '' .
kobo , however , thay praha asha and kunti , believing uske sansee aor kalari dushi to have been misinterpreted by the palcic , saah uske neeji mudde praha vishy to media dhaan .
he challenged nirvan 's daras saah isko phaila stiyi ellam in utero ( 1993 ) .
dauran the pichla xalo of uske jivan , kobo struggled saahh horron addiction , bimar aor vasad .
he bhii thaa parashi coping saahh uske kitri aor palcic hitrr , aor the pesher aor lifelong neeji pressures surrounding kood aor uske biwi , santarr kortin priemimu .
on apryl 8 , 1994 , kobo thay mila murde at uske gher in sital , the shakar of kaya thay officially shati a atth by a self-inflicted shotgun ghav to the sair .
the halto of uske mota at aoo 27 have become a tapic of palcic fascination aor bhaas .
chunki unko deybue , nirvan , with kobo as a songwriter , raai bechi over 25 lakho ellam in the u.S. , aor over 50 lakho wisy .
redily injan samay aor kamo yantii .
click liya pura resolution animation .
redily injan of a biplane
nupun lati ( katra ) , slave aor balances isse a two-row , fourteen-cylinder pratt & white juda barr
the redily injan is a prttii parkar atric dhan injan vinas in jisse the silender paitin outward isse a central crankshaft jaise the tilayi of a whil .
it resembles a stylized star jajb viewed isse the samna , aor is pukra a `` sthrr injan '' ( jarmin sternmotor ) in kuch languages .
the redilay vinas thay bhoot commonly prutt in yava injan pahlo tarbin injan became predominant .
The sunhe ladkoyan is an amri sitcom , nirm by sooan haris , kiya originally aired on ansi isse sitabar 13 , 1985 , to may 9 , 1992 .
abhint bea arthr , betti swath , rue mcclanahan aor estelle getty , the dikha centers on haarr purine women sharing a gher in mixi , florrrr .
It thay utpid by Witt/Thomas/Harris prandosn , in samnh with touchstone Television , aor paal junger witt , toni thamas , aor haris parosa as the original kariila nirma .
the Golden ladkoyan received critical acclaim throughout sabse of its chalan aor jeet anek pukra , sahit the pritim ammi pukra for bika comidi Series twice .
it bhii jeet tinn suhrr gloob pukra liya behatin talvin shari kaa musical or comide .
seb haar sitaoo pratke prapt an ami pukkar throughout the shari ' chalan aor thad anek nominations .
the shari bhii crem among the shers teen highest-rated karm liya chaa out of isko saath seean .
deepwater khude is the prakm of aal aor gaas exploration aor utpann in ghrrioo of adhek than 500 feet .
By inse prahi , vahi hain lagbh 600 deepwater kuon in the galf of masko .
it raai marhu economically infeasible liya anek xalo , laciin saah utthe aala kimti , adhek compannon hain nivesh in inse chartel .
prmukh compannon working in inse sactor shaml damn offshore , TransOcean , aor bekar hoos .
vahi hain morp dho kinds of mabul deepwater khudi rigs : semi-submersible khudi rigs aor drillships .
khudi can bhii be performed isse a fixed-position sapata aisa as a floth spar ( moch ) or tension-leg mach .
haal udgo vishln raai estimated that the kool vey in the global deepwater avachana maket hoga phonn $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa seb aala is accessible on jamin or in shallow jala .
tuma can dhonde kuch aala deposits dhann gahne antra the samadr kaa ... using sonk upkar , aal compannon determine the khude sait sabse likely to upaj aala .
taba they uppg a mabul offshore khudi kayi ( modu ) to khudi the araic khoo .
kuch units hain privit into utpann rigs , arth vey swach isse khudi liya aal to capturing aala akar it 's found .
sabse of the time , the aal compnni hoga badle the modu saah a adhek sthai aal utpann rega to capture kaa ... the modu 's jaab is to drrli bas into the smander 's manjil to dhonde aala jama .
the bhag of the drill kiya extends niche the deke aor through the jala is called the riser .
the riser allows liya khudi fluids to mowa between the manjil aor the rega .
insers nimnar a drrlil string -- a shari of paap designed to drrli bas to the aala jama -- through the kaa
kaa expansion of deepwater khudi is happening despite durton in offshore filled ... kaa
in 2010 a visal explosion occurred hatya 11 madrur aor spilling lakho of galan of aal into the galf of masko abki a bp aala rega thay drilling in gahne waters .
kaa ... despite the risks , the deepwater khudi trend is spreading in the Mediterranean aor bandh the coast of istt Africa bada a string of visal discoveries of pratic kaa
kaa karna liya the resumption of such khudi , lislak kah , is continuing high maang for urja kaa
amriaa needs the aala so it is lagbh juri to phans the unchi risks kiya aiye saahh deepwater khude in anuom liya amrie to continue to carry on unko raaz lives .
kaa urja viga recently prast kiya galf aala utpann hota vistar isse isko 2011 sthrr of 1.3 lakho barrels a dena , sthil nearly a cwar of kool rerlul utpann , to 2 lakho barrels a dena by kaa
deepwater khudi affects the paran in dano tanrak aor dhantak trrke .
halki deepwater khudi rarely kanari aal spills it is sthil a hazardous sansit nisha .
Oil spills pranamn in aal doob to the niche of the smander smothering plant jivan leaving machli without khana aor ashyr to jivat .
On the other haath deepwater khudi praaav the parva in a dhantak trrke too .
In samay akar the deepwater oil khoo is nahi in uppg anymore padhe will grow on aor around the khoo banana a gufa or cavern like ashyr adesh liya pesu to thrive in .
deepwater drilling bhii lets us dekhi the ghrrioo of the smander manjil kiya hain hardly kahi dekhi .
kaa on rovers at the niche of the kuon rekar phote and louo foto of wirle machli kiya hain in vahi pratic vaaas , giving waginit a dekh at pesu vey rarely kaa ( shaan niga ) . ''
monka samille lewinsky ( born julaya 23 , 1973 ) is an amri stri saahh zisko sont raay addhs dheeek cletin admitted to having thaa an `` improper sandh '' while dho worked at the swath haas in 1995 aor 1996 .
The affair aor isko parkna ( jisse shaml cletin 's mhoooog ) became gyat as the lewinsky kand .
frasian albar `` fenk '' sinta , , ( dismar 12 , 1915 kaa may 14 , 1998 ) thay an amri sinar aor film karta .
shurt uske musical karir in the sula era saah Harry James aor tamm dorsey , sinta found unprecedented kamay as a xolo clakar isse the early to mid-1940s bada hona hastic to collanbia rikar in 1943 .
hona the idol of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released uske pahlo ellam , the aage of fenk sinta in 1946 .
uske pesher karir thad stalled by the 1950s , lackin it thay punman in 1953 bada he jeet the adami pukra liya behtan supporting Actor liya his prashan in isse yahan to shav .
he signed saah katpll rikar in 1953 aor released anek critically lauded ellam ( aisa as in the mut choti ghanto , gito liya swingin ' Lovers ! , aiye makhi saah me , tabhi the nirzan aor nice 'n ' asaan ) .
sinta baya katpll to found uske own rakar lable , reprise raadar in 1961 ( dunna kamay with ellam aisa as ring-a-ding-ding ! , sinta at the sands aor frrsic albar sinta & antooia carlos jobim ) , toured internationally , thay a founding sasy of the Rat paak aor fraternized saah hastia aor cutnooi , sahit jaan F. kende .
sinta turned 50 in 1965 , ankit the retrospective sitabar of my xalo , stakhra in the ammi -winning talvin khaas fenk sinta : a man aor His muc , and scored hitas saah `` ajabi in the ratri `` aor `` my rasta `` .
saah bakri of uske muck dwindling aor bada appearing in anek poorly prapt films , sinta riated liya the pahlo samay in 1971 .
dho xalo bada , however , he aaye aut of retirement and in 1973 ankit several ellam , soiring a shers 40 hit saah `` ( theme isse ) nayi York , nayi yaak `` in 1980 .
using uske lalas vegas shows as a gher base , he toured dano within the sont raay aor internationally , aabak a choti samay pahlo uske mota in 1998 .
sinta bhii forged a atdich kamab karir as a filli karta .
bada jitna Best supporting Actor in 1953 , he bhii garnered a naman liya behatin karta for the man saah the sunhe buja , aor naun acclaim liya uske prashan in the currounn pratiy .
he bhii stakhra in such musicals as unchi sama , pal jaya , yaro aor daal aor on the casa .
sinta thay samin at the kende Center honors in 1983 and was awarded the adchya padak of swatta by rold Reagan in 1985 and the congressional sunha padak in 1997 .
He thay the parta of eleven grami pukra , sahit the Grammy trustees pukrar , grami lende pukra aor the Grammy ajvan ublei pukkar .
sinta is bhii eke of kaa best-selling caloom of seb samay , having sold adhek than 150 lakho naal wisy .
ther cornhole falak
cornhole , bhii gyat as seem thala thos , makai thos , baggo or baag , is a lawn khel in jisse khili louo turns fonna makai chede bags at a utha mach saah a chade in the dhur end .
a thala in the chade scores 3 points , abki eke on the mach sakor 1 paitin .
khel continues aabak a team or khili phoch the sakor of 21 .
the amri sunha trua is an adhak sunha bullion sikka of the sont States .
prachat antra the sunha bullion sikka adhinn of 1985 , it thay pahlo released by the sont raay minte in 1986 .
bikra yug is a pralil of yoga kiya bikra choudhury synthesized from pragat hatha yug catcoon aor popularized beginning in the jaldi 1970s .
seb bikra yug varg chalan liya 90 mintes aor consist of the same shari of 26 postures aor 2 swaas exercises .
bikra yug is ideally practiced in a ruom heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) saah a ardta of 40 % , .
crestar maical massey ( born 26 janri 1990 ) is an amri karta , hasi and rapper behtin gyat liya abhin as maical barret in niclonnd talvin shari zoey 101 .
massey raai prapt anek awards aor naman sahit a yag clakar pukkar aor ami pukra nominations .
he is bhii gyat liya appearing in anek commercials in the jaldi 2000s .
a conventional teaspoon bana of beaag sthyl .
a teaspoon is an mad of cutlery and/or a measuring antar , as khoo as a kayi of mapan of aage in kuch deso aor customs .
a farnn is khoi eke or adhek of a smoh of prrchy 12,000 pratij of plants belonging to the vanstp group gyat as pteridophyta .
napans mosses , vey have jalim aor flumm ( banana unhe vascular padhe ) .
vey have stems , leaves , and jadey jaise other vascular padhe .
ferns reproduce via beoon and have neither beej nor pushpi .
By dhur the largest smoh of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , laciin ferns as parah yahan ( bhii pukra monilophytes ) include horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , aor ophioglossoid ferns .
the pada pteridophyte bhii refers to ferns aor a few anya bijart vascular padhe ( dekhi narka khand niche ) .
ferns first appear in the chatan rakar 360 lakho xalo pahlo in the carboniferous lackin many of the varman paioon aor prati kiya nahi appear aabak roughly 145 lakho xalo pahlo in the jaldi Cretaceous ( bada flowering padhe aaye to dominate many environments ) .
ferns are nahi of prmuk artheck mattw , lackin kuch are grown or gathered liya khana , as shoaan padhe , for remediating contaminated soils , aor have marhu the vishy of shadh for unko khshta to haten kuch rasino pruskuk isse the aeyr .
kuch hain significant weeds .
vey bhii khel a bumk in mythology , arvirin , aor art .
chata roofs in isril
chapat chaat in Los enjils
a chapat chaat is a parkar of covering liya a building .
In canto to the adhek sloped roop of chaat , a chapat chaat is aada or nearly aada .
the dhalan of a chaat is properly gyat as isko pich : roofs which hain nearly flat hain gyat as low-pitch roofs ( as the kaun of slope increases , so the pich is said to badan ) .
khoi chadar of samri prutt to kaar a chata or low-pitched chaat is praha known as a jilli aor the prathak purpose of yaa lillo is to waterproof the chaat chartel .
samri kiya kaar chata roofs typically allow the jala to chalan off isse a patla inclination or camber into a gutter praliy .
jala isse kuch chapta roofs aisa as on gardan sheds sometimes bahti freely bandh the kinare of a chaat , halik gutter prilooin hain of labh in keeping dano divaren aor mular shush .
drenj on choti roofs praha lead jala sidhe onto the maidan , or behtar , into a vishar bana soakaway .
drenj on larger roofs usually seese jala into the rainwater nale prali of khoi nirm up chartel .
occasionally chata roofs though hain designed to collect jala in a pool , praha liya aesthetic udsey , or liya rainwater buffering .
chata roofs exist seb over the sanaar aor pratke chartel raai isko apna paraa or varta liya samri prutt .
in warmer climes jaha varsha is kaam aor freezing is asalin to occur , anek chata roofs hain baae nirm of chini or concrete aor inse is shoh at keeping out the ushmo of the suory aor susti aor asaan to build jaha timber is nahi readily apalai .
in areas jaha the chaat could become srnpt by barat aor lika , or jaha jala soaked into the brickwork could ferj to barf and yaun seese to 'blowing ' ( tokar up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the vistar of barf as it form ) yaa roofs are nahi upk .
traditionally sabse chapta roofs in the pushi sanaar meke uppg of tarol or adhek praha tarol pepar lagoo over chaat alakar to kharna a bhann watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in farr covered in baari to keep the suory 's umsho , uv rays aor masam bandh it aor helps protect it from cracking or blistering aor degradation .
chaat alakar is usually of fluvl , chipboard or osb falak ( osb = unm strand falak , bhii known as string falak ) of around 18mm moti .
the tarol coating is lagoo in one or adhek coats as a hot drav , heated in a tarol ketly , or as chadre of tarol impregnated 'paper ' chapae bas aor sealed saahh at joints by hot tarol - once it raai cooled , the baari is syera evenly over it .
a prmuk karnne liya vifaia of yaa pragat roofs is ignorance or kami of mentos jaha logo or karm karnne the baari to be sthrn or removed isse the tarol or tarpaper waterproofing , yaun exposing it to masam aor suory whereupon cracking aor blistering occurs over samay aor hakar jala gets in .
tarpaper is praha a 'paper ' or fibre samri soaked or impregnated in tarol .
as baari can nahi protect tarpaper saato jaha vey vrdhi khada isse the chaat aisa as on munder divaren or upstands , tarpaper variants hain idpit with fine baari lagoo to the hot tarol dauran the prakm of manufacture aisa kiya a sthai pret of baari is stuck to it in order to deya it gari surkha .
tarpapers vary in visha as kurta the karri aor prashan of those applying it to upaj adhek or kaam kamab pranamn .
in kuch sux climates or chanin chatti yaa blki 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can pichla khoo in sandh to the lagat of samri kharde and lagat of lata unhe , however the lagat of modern lillo such as epdm raai aiye bas over haal years to meke unhe adhek aor adhek susti .
vahi hain now adhek firms supplying adhuuk kilk aor vahi is generally a growing jugat of unko prashan aor upbata .
If a lika karta occur on a chapta chaat taba khsti praha goes unnoticed liya long avhdi of samay during jisse jala penetrates aor soaks the alakar aor khoi insull and/or dhana beneath it .
inse can seese to mahng khsti isse the dorgan jisse praha develops aor if bayn can weaken the roof dhana .
vahi hain also vinnin swast risks to logo aor pesu swaas the sache beoon : the severity of inse swast rark remains a debated paitin .
eke frboom saahh maintaining chapat roofs is kiya if jala kurta ghos the adro covering ( be it pragat or a adhuok jilli ) it can safar a long rasta pahlo causing dras khsti or paktte into a bhann jaha it can be dekhi .
yaun it is nahi easy to dekhi jaha it is paktte in anuom to repair it .
akar underlying chaat alakar is soaked it praha sags causing a further saghan or puddling of jala in kiya chartel aor the frbombl worsens .
a CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed kampatt diskk jisse contains ankda .
the naam is an acronym jisse stand liya `` kampatt diskk read-only merri `` .
compott can pada cd-roms , laciin can nahi likhe on unhe .
cd-roms hain popularly prutt to vitra computr tantra , including veeo khel aor maltida arpon , halki khoi data can be narrd ( up to the khshta limit of a diskk ) .
kuch cds , pukra unta cds , thami dano computr data aor aodowa saah the latter saxhs of hona niya on a cd khili , abki ankda ( aisa as tantra or dital veeo ) is only usable on a computr ( aisa as aeso 9660 swro pc cd-roms ) .
The pila kitab is the tanke maank kiya defines the swrop of CD-ROMs .
eke of a niyat of color-bound kitab kiya contain the technical vishati liya seb cd seup , the pila kitab , created by sone aor peel , was the pahlo ectatin of kampatt disk dital Audio .
it adapted the swrop to thami khoi roop of ankda .
joon `` jo '' roling ( ) , ( born 31 julay 1965 ) , kalmi naam J. K. roling , is a angoe upnaar , behtan gyat as the lakkk of the hairi Potter calpick shari .
the kumar kitab have gained wisy dhaan , jeet anek awards , aor bechi adhek than 400 lakho naal .
They have become the best-selling book series in ithes , aor marhu the adhar liya a shari of films jisse raai become the highest-grossing film shari in ithes .
roling thaa overall swieti on the scripts as khoo as maintaining thanak contol by seat as a nirma on the philal kist .
born in yate , tlastar , roling thay working as a shara aor dumiya cchvi liya Amnesty anthrri jajb dho conceived the vichar liya the hairi kumar shari on a vilat tren isse manter to lamna in 1990 .
the seven-year kala kiya followed entailed the mota of uske maan , talak isse uske pahlo husband aor grrbi aabak roling smapt the pahlo ankh in the shari , hairi kumar aor the paros 's stoon ( 1997 ) .
roling subsequently prik 6 kaa last , hairi kumar aor the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) kaa khoo as 3 purr to the shari .
in 2012 , roling parted saahh uske ansi aor resumed likne in the roop of a tragicomedy anko aimed at wask readership , hakar the kajul rikti .
roling raai khaa dho is filal working on dho kaa aimed liya waskl , the anya liya children younger than the hairi kumar daras , aor she expects the latter to be prik pahlo .
roling raai led a `` rags to amri `` jivan stori , in which she progressed isse living on raay labh to multi-millionaire akat bhitr pach xalo .
dho is the sont kidam 's best-selling lakkk chunki raadar began , saah bakri in excess of kaa .
the 2008 Sunday tammis samrd suchi anaut roling 's saaya at kaa lakho ( $ 798 lakho ) , ranning her as the barva richest stri in the sont kidam .
forbs crem roling as the forty-eighth sabse satli hasti of 2007 , aor samay patricoa namit uske as a runner-up liya isko 2007 witt of the Year , noting the social , moral , aor raaatic inspiration dho raai diye uske prash .
in October 2010 , Rowling thay named the `` sabse Influential stri in bretten '' by agrin patricoa smapar .
dho raai become a notable lacke , supporting aisa dhart as comic rahta , eke gank paioon , anek kathiy sama of gree bretten aor lumos ( formerly the children 's High sthrr smoh ) .
Auburndale is a nuagar in Polk kanti , florrrr , sont raay .
the yankiti thay 11,032 at the 2000 yankise .
according to the u.s yankiti estimates of 2005 , the nuagar had a yankiti of 12,381 .
it is part of the lakeland kaa shit hawan mahagar sankhy chartel .
hurricane isal ( 2003 ) as dekhi isse sasha dauran expedition 7 of the anthrie sgec stashen .
the nazar , eyewall , aor surrounding rainbands , vishate of tivra cyclones , hain clearly dras in inse dras isse sgec .
a tivra ccarva is a tufan prali characterized by a low-pressure bech ghire by a parpil arrangement of thunderstorms kiya upaj madar hawan and bhari barat .
tivra cyclones strengthen jajb water cafur isse the smander is released as the srnpt aerr udai , resulting in sannnn of jala waah contained in the nami aeyr .
vey hain fueled by a different umsho yantii than anya cyclonic windstorms aisa as nor'easters , uoripy windstorms , aor polar chaav .
the characteristic kiya separates tivra cyclones isse anya cyclonic prilooin is kiya at khoi height in the mahol , the bech of a tropical ccarva hoga be warmer than isko pravesh ; a ghatna pukra `` garma camer `` tufan prilonin .
the pada `` tivra '' refers both to the geographical utti of yaa prilonin , jisse praha roop in tivra regions of the gloob , aor to unko gathan in mariam tivra air masses .
The pada `` cclvar '' refers to aisa tufan ' cyclonic priti , saah counterclockwise hona prava in the utare galhad aor clockwise wind prava in the dhasinn galhad .
the vipart disha of the hona prava is a pranamn of the Coriolis fors .
depending on isko sthan aor sakti , a tivra ccvaat is referred to by names aisa as hurricane ( , ) , tufan ( ) , tivra tufan , cyclonic tufan , tivra vasad , aor base ccarva .
abki tivra cyclones can upaj atdich satli hawan aor malhar rain , vey hain bhii smath to upaj unche waves , damaging tufan surge , aor tornadoes .
vey develop over visal laase of garma jala , aor khona unko sakti if vey mowa over jamin due to increased satah garhhan aor ghata of the garma smander as an urja corse .
inse is kyon tatiy regions can prapt significant khsti isse a tropical ccarva , while adtrdiya regions hain acrat surtit isse receiving madar hawan .
bhari rains , however , can upaj significant baad adtrdiyo , aor tufan surges can upaj extensive tatiy baad up to isse the takha .
halki unko praaav on insan populations can be vinsher , tivra cyclones can relieve sukha sharte .
vey bhii carry umsho urja dhur isse the cindhnn aor hatran it toward shtho latitudes , jisse makes unhe an marhan bhag of the global dovelin paran yantii .
as a pranamn , tivra cyclones shota to maintain suntal in the darti 's bhnnil , aor to maintain a acrat stable aor garma tapan wisy .
anek tivra cyclones develop jajb the dovelin sharte around a kamor disturbance in the mahlo hain favorable .
the fushii parva is modulated by climatological chakra aor patan such as the madden-julian doln , El kaa doln , aor the atalac multidecadal doln .
anya form jajb anya parkar of cyclones acquire tivra vishati .
Tropical prilonin hain tab sthrn by purahla hawan in the troposphere ; if the sharte remain anku , the tivra disturbance intensifies , aor can bhii develop an eye .
on the anya smapt of the spectrum , if the sharte around the prali deteriorate or the tivra ccarva makes landfall , the pralil weakens aor hakar dissipates .
it is nahi sansit to artificially induce the dissipation of yaa prilonin saah varman prikii .
kirk dgals ( born issur danielovitch , ; dismar 9 , 1916 ) is an amri stet aor filli karta , filli nirma and lakkk .
uske lercori films shaml aat of the paste ( 1947 ) , chainn ( 1949 ) , Ace in the chade ( 1951 ) , the kharab and the khubrut ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues antra the smadra ( 1954 ) , havas liya jivan ( 1956 ) , rahe of mahima ( 1957 ) , gunfight at the o.k . corral ( 1957 ) , the wannix ( 1958 ) , staatsr ( 1960 ) , nirjan hain the ver ( 1962 ) , saat deno in may ( 1964 ) , the naak of telemark ( 1965 ) aor muskl Guys ( 1986 ) .
He is no.17 on the amri filli santhan 's suchi of the greatest pursh amri serin murouh of seb time , banana ussy the highest-ranked jeena witt on the suchi .
In 1996 , he prapt the adami mand pukar `` liya 50 xalo as a taraak aor moral fors in the gati hitrr jatio . ''
he is eke of the pichla surviving aithoon isse holid 's `` suhrr aoo '' .
rabtr claak `` bob '' seger ( born may 6 , 1945 ) is an amri chatan aor fenke singer-songwriter , guitarist aor pianist .
as a locally kamab detroit-area clakar , he performed aor ankit as bob seger aor the pichla sona aor bob seger pralil throughout the 1960s .
by the jaldi 1970s , he thaa dropped the `` pralili '' isse uske readarn aor gari to niet liya broader kama saah anya vinnn bands .
in 1973 , he put saahh the candi Bullet band , a smoh of detroit-area santroi , saah zisko he became sabse kamab on the nashl sthrr saahh the ellam seav goli , ankit seav with the candi goli band in 1975 at cobo ghol in detr , mixangn .
in 1976 , he hasil a nashl bret saah the stiyi ellam ratri chale .
On uske studio ellam , he bhii worked extensively saah the alabama-based masisi Shoals Rhythm khand , jisse appeared on anek of seger 's best-selling singles aor albums .
a jadey rakar saah a classic raspy , chilaa voice , seger lika aor ankit gito kiya dealt saah priemim , mahlo , blue-collar vist aor thay an exemplar of heartland chatan .
seger raai ankit anek hitas , sahit `` ratri chale , '' `` farr the pees , '' `` we 've Got tonight , '' `` virdh the hona , '' and shakedown kiya was lika liya berve phaan cop ii aor `` jaise a chatnn , '' aor bhii co-wrote the egls ' number-one hit `` heartache tonight . ''
uske iconic reacirdin of `` budha samay chatan aor fenk `` thay namit eke of the gito of the sadi in 2001 .
saahh a karir spanning pach saako , seger continues to perform and rakar aage .
seger thay inducted into the chatan aor fenke ghol of kitri in 2004 aor the songwriters ghol of kitri in 2012 .
richard milhous nisna ( janri 9 , 1913 kaa apryl 22 , 1994 ) thay the 37th addhs of the sont raay , seat isse 1969 to 1974 , jajb he became the tabhi addhs to ista the daftar .
nisna thaa previously parosa as a rapblonn u.S. representative aor sintre isse cllaronri aor as the 36th Vice addhs of the sont States isse 1953 to 1961 .
nixan thay born in yorba linda , cllnrinrig .
he greet isse whittier kalag in 1934 aor dyok vilhoov sula of vidhi in 1937 , returning to chllrnfiiro to abaas vidhi .
He aor uske biwi , paete nisna , stirt to vashitn to karya liya the federal sarkr in 1942 .
he subsequently served in the sonte raay neve dauran sanaar hudd ii .
nisna thay nicv in cllaronri to the haas of prtthin in 1946 aor to the sinte in 1950 .
uske pursuit of the alger hiss mamla sthpt uske reputation as a leading anti-communist , aor elevated ussy to nashl prominence .
he thay the karsyloa mate of Dwight D. anaar , the rapblonn parti adchya nominee in the 1952 chana .
niksa parosa liya arth xalo as vice addhs .
he waged an unsuccessful addhisya aiaan in 1960 , narrowly khone to jaan F. kende , aor khoya a rees liya rajal of chllriiira in 1962 .
in 1968 , he bhaga again liya the prissi aor was nicr .
hali nisna initially escalated amrraa 's baarde in the Vietnam hudd , he subsequently ended U.S. baarde in 1973 .
nisna 's visit to the logo 's gantar of chhin in 1972 khole raaicim sandh between the dho rashar , aor he initiated kaa aor the anti-ballistic masil sandhi with the sovet samnh the vahi saal .
domestically , uske prashan generally embraced netyo kiya transferred sakti inse vashitn to the raay .
among anya baate , he shurm pahlo to lado karte aor illegal dawaon , imposed madri aor daam nitran , enforced desegregation of kuch dhasinn sulcoon , aor sthtp the Environmental surkha ansi .
halik he presided over the chandra atran shurt saahh aplo 11 , he scaled waps mantep sgec exploration .
he thay re-elected by a landslide in 1972 .
nisna 's duori pada dekhi an arab aala embargo , the ista of uske vaisa addhs , Spiro agnew , aor a continuing series of khulas prrchy the vartaged scandal aor anya misconduct by saxy of the prashan .
The kand escalated , costing nisna much of uske raaatic support , aor on agst 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the phans of lagch nisht mhoooog aor hatna isse daftar .
bada uske ista , he controversially prapt a pardon gari by uske successor , jardl ghata .
In rintem , Nixon 's karya as an elder statesman , authoring several kitab aor undertaking anek vidos yatriae , helped to rehabilitate uske palcic hitrr .
he suffered a debilitating strok on apryl 18 , 1994 , aor died haar deno later at the aoo of 81 .
{ { infobox sintre
the doman Republic annexation sandhi caused kadwa contention between President grant aor sen. sumner .
bredi 1869 ] ]
sen. Sumner , opposed to amri samra in the caribbean aor fearful kiya annexation hota seese to the conquest of the neighboring blaec gantar of hati , became kaal kiya bhathar lay piche the sandhi , aor kiya meen bandh to the president saza in the bhathar .
as addhs of the sinte Foreign sandh kamit , sen. Sumner initially withheld uske raai on the sandhi on janri 18 , 1870 .
sen. sumner had marhu lika sucha isse shauk cchrv of raay , bancroft devices , kiya u.s . naval jaza yaud hona used to protect addhs kaa .
sen. sumner 's kamit voted virdh annexation aor at sen. kaa suja aor cofee sansht to save the party isse an bhada lado or the president isse sharmin , the sinte aagt isko bhaas of the sandhi behind bandh dwara in kariiaa session .
addhs grant persisted aor bhaja sansee to corgens in hasna of annexation on kuch 14 , 1870 , aor may 31 , 1870 .
in bandh suthra , sen. sumner spoke aat virdho the sandhi ; warnng kiya there hota be parashi saah the vidosh naaoim , noting the dirlic vidro kiya took plale on the island , aor the rark kiya the swatta of hatti , pahnn by the sont raay in 1862 , would be khoya .
sumner stated kiya grant 's use of the u.S. neve as a prottet thay a ulnn of anthriy vidhi aor asaakin .
hakar , on juon 30 , 1870 the sandhi was voted on by the sinte aor pifal to labh the jarri 2/3 bhuut liya sandhi doohi .
the following dena , addhs grant , feeling gadri by sen. sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa bandh friend J. lothrop motley , Ambassador to bretten .
by patad , sumner 's neeji dusmin to the addhs thay palcie gyann , aor he blamed the cchvir of raay for failing to have resigned , blki than let grant have uske rasta .
the dho men , mitro aabak then , cooled into kadwa dusmo .
in digar , 1870 , sthil fearful kiya grant meant to acquire sento domon somehow , sumner diya a fiercely naun waka accusing the addhs of usurpation and babcock of unethical conduct .
already , addhs grant , smarth by uske ccevi of raay hamalt machli , thaa initiated a aiaan to depose Sumner isse the addcht of the sinte vidhe Relations kamit .
Although Sumner stated he thay an `` prashan man '' , in jod to having roka grant 's doman gantar treaty attempt , sumner thaa prrat grant 's pura repeal of the karyal of daftr adhinn , avert grant 's naman of sinder stiver to u.S. Secretary of rashh , aor marhu a nirtar harassing fors pushing punman netyoon teaj than grant thaa marhu willing to go .
grant resented sumner 's badpan of manner , as khoo .
batai akar kiya sumner kiya nahi manana in the bael , the addhs is supposed to have khaa kiya he thay nahi chaket : `` he did n't likhe it . ''
as the darar between grant and sumner increased , kaa swasth began to manhi .
jajb the 42nd u.S. cornes convened on kuch 4 , 1871 , sitro sandh saah addhs grant , gyat as kaa kaa voted to oust sen. sumner isse the sinte vidhe sandh kamit addcht .
caaar achar ( bhii corpetto achar ) is a roop of lagoo ethics or pesher achar that examines netak siddan aor moral or netak smasye kiya utaa in a business paran .
it applies to seb faluo of caaar conduct aor is pransic to the conduct of individuals aor sunnr organizations .
caaar achar raai dano normative aor warnat aaam .
as a corte abaas aor a karir specialization , the fillu is primarily normative .
lada attempting to samze caaar bartav employ warnat vidhi .
the daura aor quantity of business netak mudde reflects the bacht of profit-maximizing bartav saah non-economic chithen .
beaj in business achar trrt dramatically during the 1980s aor 1990s , dano bhitr prmuk corporations aor bhitr academia .
liya udarnn , aage sabse prmuk corporations prahr unko pratha to non-economic maana antra headings aisa as achar kood aor sohll jimar charters .
Adam smith khaa , `` People of the vahi wapar seldom mile saah , bhii liya merriment aor diversion , but the talva ends in a shatt virdh the palcie , or in kuch contrivance to hatha kimite . ''
sarke uppg kann aor regulations to paitin caaar bartav in kaya vey perceive to be faade dishine .
achar implicitly regulates areas aor details of bartav kiya shut pura sarkr contol .
the emergence of visal corporations saah simit sandh aor sensitivity to the smando in jisse vey operate trat the vikas of accric achar regimes .
a barna is a type of chote to flesh or sikne caused by umsho , electricity , rasan , garhhan , or vikrinn .
sabse burns affect tabhi the sathi sikne ( gyat as sathi or pahla upadi ) or extend into the deeper sikne laciin do nahi involve the pura moti of the sikne ( gyat as aanic moti or duori upadi ) .
Rarely seb parto of the sikne or deeper utko , aisa as masisi or asthi can be injured in jisse mamla the barna is either purr moti ( tisra upadi ) or choth upadi .
the upaar jarri depends on the garrtt of the burn .
sathi burns sansht pranh saahh choti adhek than saral paida hatrr abki prmuk burns may aakta prolonged treatment in specialized barna centers .
colling saah tap jala may shota paida aor ghti damage however if exapar is prolonged it may pranamn in low deh tapan .
Partial moti burns may aakta safai saah saboon aor jala followed by dressings .
pholo should typically be bayn khand .
pura thickness burns praha require surgical upaar aisa as sikne kalmi aor extensive burns praha aakta visal rashi of intravenous fluids .
the sabse aam jatooi of burns hain samnin to sankan .
abki visal burns can be fatal , adhuok upaar viksit in the pichla 50 xalo have significantly improved the outcomes , vishar in children aor yag waskl .
globally prachy 11 lakho people seek chixa upaar aor 300,000 logo die isse burns .
in the sont raay , of those admitted to a barna bech , lagbh 4 % die isse unko choto .
the long pada nisha is primarily samnin to the akar of barna and the aoo of the witt effected .
the atalac smander , not sahit Arctic aor antaak regions
inse veeo thay liya by the crew of expedition 29 on board the iss .
the pass starts isse just north-east of the dewp of nilfanded over the utar atalac smander to contrl afri , over dhasin sudan .
the atalac smander is the second-largest of the sanaar 's oceanic vinaan .
saah a kool chartel of prrchyi , it kaar lagbh 20 pritt of the darti 's satah aor prachy 29 pritt of isko jala satah chartel .
the pahlo part of isko naam refers to atalas of yuni mythology , banana the atalac the `` smadra of atalls '' .
the oldest gyat zikr of `` atalac '' is in the histories of hirotes around 450 bc ( hdt . 1.202.4 ) : atalint thlla ( yuni : kaa kaa ; angrij : smadra of Atlas ) .
the pada ethiopic smander , nikla isse ithyaa , thay lagoo to the dhasinn atalac as latt as the mid-19th sadi .
pahlo europeans khoja anya maaaar , the pada `` ocean '' itself thay synonymous saah the waters pura the wasnich of jiblart kiya we now jaan as the atalac .
the jaldi yonon believed this ocean to be a gigantic river encircling the sanaar .
the atalac smander occupies an elongated , s-shaped jalay extending longitudinally between uorysha aor afri to the istt , aor the americas to the vastt .
as eke component of the interconnected wash smander , it is kante in the utar to the artic smander ( jisse is sometimes maano a smadra of the atalac ) , to the prast smander in the chhddith , the bhartia smander in the southeast , aor the dhasiin smander in the dhasin .
( anya prahynn describe the atalac as extending southward to ataric . )
the equator subdivides it into the utar atalac smander aor dhasin atalac smander .
due to unko long-term hatt , aor the need liya a adviti pachara in issuing forecasts aor chation , tivra cyclones aor upphsn cyclones hain diye names according to niti ( dekhi tivra ccarva naaana ) .
the following hain suchin isse jisse yaa tivra aor upsh ccarva names hain nikla .
swath layit is dispersed by a primj into the rango of the atpical nark .
the visible nark is the portion of the elarctitin nark kiya is dras to ( can be detected by ) the insan nazar .
elactictenne vikrinn in inse daura of wavelengths is pukra visible layit or baae layit .
a ther human nazar hoga respond to wavelengths isse about 390 to 700 nm .
in sharte of rvrtit , inse corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa thz .
a light-adapted nazar generally raai isko adacht swasha at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ) , in the grean pradesh of the atpical nark ( dekhi : depti jalne ) .
the nark karta nahi , however , contain seb the rango kiya the insan aakhe aor brain can fark .
arati rango aisa as lulai , or jomi visaan aisa as magenta , hain absent , liya udarnn , cumi vey can be made tabhi by a mixar of anek wavelengths .
Colors containing tabhi eke wavelength hain bhii pukra pure rango .
drasi wavelengths pass through the `` atpical khide `` , the pradesh of the elactictenne nark jisse allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's mahlo .
an udarnn of inse ghatna is kiya saaf aeyr scatters bllu layit adhek than redd wavelengths , and so the midday asaan appears blon .
the atpical khide is bhii pukra the drasy khide cumi it overlaps the insan drasi jawab nark .
the nikat inrodde ( NIR ) khide suth base aut of the insan dushi , as khoo as the media wavelength ir ( mwir ) khide aor the long wavelength or Far Infrared ( lwir or fir ) khide halki anya pesu may anu them .
anek prati can dekhi layit saahh barbant bahar the `` dras spectrum , '' jisse is defined in sharte of insan dushi .
machomi aor anek anya insects can detect paragi layit , jisse helps unhe find mard in pushpi .
santrr species kiya nirra on kiet paran may owe reproductive success to unko roop in paragi layit , blki than kasa rangnn vey appear to inson .
pashyon , too , can see into the paragi ( kaa nm ) , aor kuch have sex-dependent markings on unko plumage kiya hain dras tabhi in the paragi daura .
anek pesu kiya can dekhi into the paragin daura , however , can nahi dekhi redd layit or khoi other reddish wavelengths .
machomi ' visible spectrum ends at prachy 590nm , baae pahlo the orange wavelengths pranh .
pashyon , however , can dekhi kuch redd wavelengths , lackin nahi as many as inson .
zebras ( or ) hain anek prati of afri equids ( ghoda puriar ) sont by unko distinctive blaec aor swath dharnn .
unko dharnn aiye in alag patan , adviti to pratk wiqtit .
vey hain generally sohll pesu kiya seav in choti harems to visal herds .
napans their closest ristro , ghode aor asses , zebras have never marhu truly domesticated .
vahi hain tinn prati of zebras : the maidan jabra , the kaa 's jabra aor the pahad jabra .
the maidan jabra aor the pahad jabra belong to the subgenus hippotigris , laciin kaa 's jabra is the akaar prati of subgenus dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an gadha , to jisse it is closely samnin , abki the purva dho hain adhek horse-like .
seb tinn belong to the genus equus , saahh saah anya living equids .
the adviti dharnn of zebras meke unhe eke of the pesu sabse pricht to logo .
vey occur in a kismo of habitats , aisa as grasslands , savannas , vuddlind , thorny scrublands , kyu , aor tatiy phaan .
however , vinnin anthropogenic caron have thaa a kathor praaav on jabra populations , in particular shakr liya skins aor aavas vinsh .
kaa 's zebra aor the pahad jabra hain endangered .
abki maidan zebras hain much adhek plentiful , eke subspecies , the quagga , became vilup in the latt 19th sadi kaa halik vahi is currently a yagaa , pukra the quagga prottat , kiya aims to nsal zebras kiya are phenotypically saaman to the quagga in a prakm pukra pranan waps .
bairi swath , born bairi yujin kartar ( kaa ) , thay an amri composer aor singer-songwriter .
a two-time grami pukra -winner gyat liya uske distinctive baaas aage aor romatic hitrr , swath 's mataam kama aaye in the 1970s as a xolo singar and saah the priemim asit arkara , crafting many enduring atta , drgnd , aor disko gito aisa as uske dho biggest hitas , `` tuma 're the pahlo , the pichla , my subk `` aor `` ca n't milenge prapt of apna priemim , eeb . ''
saah saah ishak haze , swath is maano by allmusic.com as a paiior of disko muck in the jaldi 1970s .
dauran the corss of uske karir in the muck caaar , swath achieved 106 sunha albums wisy , 41 of jisse bhii attained pletinem akat .
White thaa 20 sunhar aor 10 pletinem singles , saah wisy bakri in excess of 100 lakho , according to achoo ed Hogan aor Wade kergan .
uske praaav shaml reva . jems cloved , rayr charlas , arthia Franklin plals motown calaom the supremes , the haar taap aor marvi gaye .
annji goli ( , born annji goli vout ; juon 4 , 1975 ) is an amri aahiti , filli nidsk , aor screenwriter .
dho raai prapt an adami Award , dho serin aithoon gill pukkar , aor tinn Golden glob pukrar , aor thay namit holid 's highest-paid aahit by forbs in 2009 aor 2011 .
goli promotes humanitarian kaniri , aor is vika liya uske karya saah shartoon as a khaas envoy aor purva Goodwill Ambassador liya the sonte rashar unchi khanir for sharthon ( unhcr ) .
She raai praha marhu cited as the sanaar 's `` sabse beautiful '' stri , a sherak liya jisse dho raai prapt substantial media dhaan .
goli bana uske serin deybu as a chailadd alongside uske pita jon vout in lookin ' to milenge aut ( 1982 ) , lackin uske filli karir began in schai a shaq later saah the low-budget utpann sarbog 2 ( 1993 ) .
uske pahlo agri bumk in a prmuk filli thay in the cyber-thriller hicar ( 1995 ) .
dho starred in the critically acclaimed biographical talvin films zarg valas ( 1997 ) aor Gia ( 1998 ) , aor won an adami pukra liya behatin supporting aahiti liya uske prashan in the natak ladki , badit ( 1999 ) .
goli hasil chaude kitri bada uske portrayal of veeo khel naic laara cref in larla cref : mabra redrer ( 2001 ) , aor sthtp herself among the highest-paid actresses in holid saah the sequel the palna of jivan ( 2003 ) .
dho gari uske karve sthrr karir saah Mr. & mrs. smith ( 2005 ) aor chahe ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated wyniik salaao to kaa prapt further naun acclaim liya uske prashan in the dramas a mighty dila ( 2007 ) aor changeling ( 2008 ) , jisse arj her a naman liya an adami pukrar liya behatin aahiti .
goli made uske directorial deybu saah the wartime natak in the jamin of rakt aor medo ( 2011 ) .
talak isse aithoon jani liele Miller aor bili Bob thrtnn , goli abhi jivana saah karta bredd pitt , in a sandh notable liya fervent midia attention .
Jolie aor pitt have tinn biological children aor tinn apnya children .
a pratic mahra idpit by the erosion of differentially weathered chatnn in jebel kharaz , jardan
apadn is the prakm by jisse marda aor chatan hain removed isse the darti 's satah by exogenetic prinion aisa as hona or water prav , aor tab transported aor deposited in other sthai .
abki apadn is a pratic prakm , insan activities have increased by 10-40 tammis the rayte at jisse apadn is occurring globally .
excessive apadn kanari samnsy aisa as marularan , decreases in agricultural utda due to jamin degradation , sedimentation of galran , aor ecological patan due to ghata of the nutrient samdh apar marda parto .
Water aor hona apadn hain now the dho prathak causes of jamin degradation ; sont , vey hain jimer liya 84 % of degraded acreage , making excessive apadn eke of the sabse significant washak prrviy samnsy .
addoii krshi , nawa , sadke , anthropogenic jalvo badle aor shari sprawl are amongst the sabse significant insan krynan in liha to unko praaav on stimulating apadn .
however , vahi hain many apaalin wapac jamin upag practices kiya can katna or seema apadn , aisa as chaat -building , no-till krshi , aor revegetation of denuded soils .
jarsi shore is an amri vasta talvin shari jisse bhaga on amvet isse dismar 3 , 2009 to dismar 20 , 2012 in the sont raay .
the shari phalo the jivana of arth housemates bita unko garman at the jarsi shore in the u.S. raay of nayi jarsi .
Season 2 followed the daala escaping the cold puotar shit to miya bech , saah ritu 3 returning to the jarsi shore .
the choth ritu , filma in itli , premiered on agst 4 , 2011 .
the dikha lauta liya a paavo ritu , at seaside hattas on janri 5 , 2012 .
the paavo ritu finale aired on kuch 15 , 2012 .
on kuch 19 , 2012 , amviti pushi that the shari hota wapsi for unko sixth ritu .
on agst 30 , 2012 , MTV hogt kiya the series will smapt after the chate ritu , which premiered on aktru 4 .
the shari finale aired on dismar 20 , 2012 .
the dikha debuted amid visal amounts of vivad regarding the uppg of the sabd `` guido / guidette , '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes , aor scrutiny isse sthaniy cumi the daala saxy yhoo not neeoone of the chartel .
the series garnered rekar darja liya amvet , banana it the samal 's sabse viewed shari telecast kahi .
the shari ' daala have bhii marhu credited saah introducing unique lexicon aor vassh into amri lercori santi .
the vilhoov of shego aor the vishoon of ohla hain among the shank santhon kiya have thaa varg or samnlon prachy the dikha .
in 2010 , the daala of jarsi shore was namit on Barbara walters ' 10 sabse fascinating logo suchi , aor the shari has chunki marhu exported to dozens of deso wisy .
There hain several remakes of the show in anya deso , saahh two niyat in the sonte kidam ; the khoo gyat geordie shore , niyat in niscal upon tyne , inglidd .
the anya is the ghatoon , the velhs smatll , jisse is filma aor niyat in cardi .
the tabhi anya adhak remek of the dikha is kaa shore , niyat in kaa , sepan .
sahi
sont raay territory is khoi extent of pradesh antra the chastar of the sanhiy sarki of the sont raay , sahit seb waters ( around islands or mapdii tracts ) aor seb u.s . naval bartan .
the sont raay raai traditionally proclaimed the sovereign adhro liya exploring , exploiting , conserving , aor monjing isko territory .
inse extent of territory is seb the chartel belonging to , aor under the dominnen of , the sont raay sanhhy sarki ( jisse shaml tracts lying at a ulaa isse the desh ) for prashan aor anya udshy .
the sonk raay kool territory shaml a upcham of raaatic vinaan .
the U.S. sarki is a sarki saahh prative shatiya antra the United raay swanhann .
`` the shatiyan nahi prative to the sont States by the swanhann , nor nisha by it to the raay , hain surtit to the raay crash , or to the logo '' by the daswa amendment .
tarmen 3 : vrdhi of the mashen ( commonly abbreviated as t3 ) is a 2003 vigann fiction karvea filli nishan by jathnn mostow aor aubhin arndn Schwarzenegger , upnam stahl , clean danes aor kristanna loken .
it is the second sequel to the tantirn ( 1984 ) .
bada ccien fails to maar saara connor pahlo uske bete is born aor to maar jaan kood as a chailadd , it bhana waps another tantirn , the t-x , in an attempt to wipe aut as anek prithor ahrcoron as possible .
inse shaml jaan 's shaviy biwi , lackin nahi jaan kood as uske whereabouts hain anjan to Skynet .
jaan 's life is lagay in danger jajb the t-x accidentally pata ussy .
a cord of lacdi
the cord is a kayi of mea of shusk aage prutt in kanda aor the sont raay to mea adhnn aor pulpwood .
a cord is the rashi of lacdi kiya , jajb `` crem aor khoo stowed '' ( arranged so pieces hain lakir , smantar , choo aor kampett ) , occupies a aage of .
inse corresponds to a khoo stacked woodpile unche , long , aor deep ; or khoi anya wasth of rakik mea kiya yields the vahi aage .
The naam cord sansht aata isse the uppg of a cord or string to mea it .
the , is an 8-bit handl video khel antar viksit aor manufactured by nento .
it thay released in japani on , in utar amrraa in , aor in uoriyp on .
it is the pahlo handl kano in the khel ladke lakir , aor thay nirm by gunpei yokoi aor nento shadh & vikas 1 kaa vahi staaf jau thaa designed the khel & dekhe shari as khoo as anek lercori khel liya the nento entertainment System .
redesigned sankan yau released in 1996 aor 1998 , in the roop of khel ladke jebj , aor khel ladke layit ( japani only ) , crash .
the khel ladke is nento 's duori handa pralil following the Game & dekhe shari introduced in , aor it sont chivien isse dano the nento entertainment praliy aor khel & dekhe .
it thay originally bundled saah the pahle khel teriir .
as bhag of the choth pedhe of eeming , the Game ladke competed saah the sega khel gier , Atari linnx , and the turboexpress .
despite yaa anya technologically shath handheld consoles , the khel ladke thay a jwast kama .
the khel ladke and its successor , the khel Boy ranga , have dano sont bechi 118.69 lakho ikii wipsy .
upon isko reezl in the sont raay , it bechi isko sunnr sipment of eke lakho ikii bhitr sapath .
the sanaar wapar bech is a jatl of imatre antra nirman in nimnar minthe , nayi yaak nuagar , sont raay , replacing an pahlo jatl of saath imarte saah the vahi naam on the vahi sayit .
the asli sanaar wapar Center prishit landrm juda minare , jisse khole on April 4 , 1973 aor you nasht in the sitabar 11 hamle of 2001 , saahh saahh 7 sanaar wapar bech .
the anya buildings in the jatl yau damaged in the hamle , aor unko tabah yhoo hakar demolished .
the sayit is hona rebuilt saah pach nayi skyscrapers and a marrolor to those maare in the hamle .
, tabhi eke skyscraper raai marhu smapt ; the anya haar hain apeittt to be smapt pahlo 2020 .
eke sanaar Trade bech hoga be the seese bhann liya the nayi jatl , reaching adhek than 100 khaninn at isko purtna .
it became the tallest bhann in nayi yaak nuagar on apryl 30 , 2012 , and is apeittt to be smapt by 2013 .
a sixth tower is pricat pushi .
at the samay of their completion , the asli 1 sanaar Trade bech ( the utar minar ) aor 2 sanaar wapar bech ( the dhasin minar ) , gyat collectively as the `` juda minare '' , yhoo the tallest imatre in the sanaar .
the anya imarte included 3 wtc ( the Marriott sanaar wapar bech ) , 4 wtc , 5 WTC , 6 wtc , aor 7 wtc .
seb of yaa imarte yhoo nirm between 1975 aor 1985 .
The cost liya the nirman thay $ 400 lakho ( $ in doller ) .
the jatl was stith in the dila of nayi yaak nuagar 's downtown vittiy jila aor contained 13.4 lakho varar phit ( 1.24 lakho m2 ) of daftr sgec .
the sanaar wapar bech anve a aag on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 aor a dakati on , 1998 .
in 1998 , the bardhoo phikar decided to privatize the sanaar wapar Center , patte the imarte to a neeji compnni to manje , and awarded the patte to silverstein Properties in .
on the morning of sitabar 11 , 2001 , al-qaeda sandh hijackers uday dho boing 767 jets into the jatl , eke into pratke minar , in a sannit atwadei attack .
After burning liya 56 minutes , the dhasin minar ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour bada by the utar minar ( 1 ) , saah the hamle on the sanaar wapar bech resulting in 2,753 mauto .
girna malba isse the minare , sont saah faar kiya the malba initiated in anek surrounding imatre , led to the aanic or complete patan of all the anya imatre in the jatl and caused antrike khsti to teen anya visal structures in the surrounding chartel .
the prakm of clepn aor recovery at the sanaar wapar bech sayit took arth mahino .
over the following xalo , yonna liya a rebuilt sanaar wapar bech took roop .
the pahlo nayi bhaon at the sayit thay 7 sanaar wapar bech , jisse khole in .
the nimnar minthen vikas nigm ( lmdc ) , sthpt in to oversee the punnman prakm , organized pritiyon to select a sayit yagana aor marrolor denain .
meror mulaar , designed by deniyl libeskind , thay selected as the nupun plan , laciin inse gari through substantial pravatin in denain .
the nayi sanaar Trade bech complex will shaml eke sanaar wapar bech , tinn anya high-rise daftr minare , aor the nashl sitbarr 11 Memorial & samaryla .
sein gibrill kyu
San bernardino kyu , saah mt . sein gorgonio in the agri aor biga bhao jhel in the background .
the antpast siemon hain a group of pahad siemon of dhasiin chllirnfar , in the prast Coast siemon physiographic pradesh in utar amriaa .
the anpustt siemon begin at the southern smapt of the chllornirf coast Ranges aor lie between santa barba aor sein deego kanti .
vey derive the naam anpust siemon due to unko east-west anvicas , banana unhe anpustt to the general north-south anvicas of sabse of cllnriona 's tatiy kyu .
aadick table saah ilcrlitnn shewl
an ilcrlitnn shell may be vichar of as an sasha followed by electrons around an ano 's cendrak .
the closest shewl to the cendrak is called the `` 1 shewl '' ( also pukra `` k shewl '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` l shewl '' ) , tab the `` 3 shewl '' ( or `` m shewl '' ) , aor so on dhur aor dhur isse the cendrak .
the shewl ashrr k , l , m , ... , prutt in the x-ray santee , hain varma .
Each shewl can contain tabhi a ficd cramak of electrons : the 1st shewl can tham up to dho electrons , the 2nd shewl can thaam up to arth electrons , the 3rd shewl can thaam up to 18 , and 4th shewl can thaam up to 32 aor so on .
Since electrons hain electrically achit to the cendrak , an ano 's electrons hoga generally occupy bahari shewl tabhi if the adhek inner shewl have already marum completely bhar by anya electrons .
however , inse is not a sakt aakta : ano may have dho or bhii three adhure bahari shewl .
( dekhi madelung niem liya adhek vivan . )
liya an sthatran of kyon electrons mood in yaa shewl dekhi ilcrlitnn configuration .
the electrons in the outermost occupied shewl ( or shells ) determine the rasik gune of the ano ; it is pukra the valence shewl .
pratke shewl consists of eke or adhek subshells , aor pratk subshell consists of eke or adhek pamon orbitals .
vickie lynn marsha ( kaa hogn ; nambar 28 , 1967 kaa farr 8 , 2007 ) , known by uske moniker anna nikol smith , thay an amri maal , aahiti , aor talvin personality .
smith pahlo gained popularity in plable , banane the 1993 Playmate of the saal .
dho modeled liya kapda compannon , sahit anda jins aor lene brent .
smith dropped aut of unche sula aor thay shadud in 1985 .
uske atdich publicized second viva to aala caaar mogul , J. hard Marshall , 62 xalo uske varth , resulted in atkele kiya dho shadud the octogenarian liya uske dhan , jisse dho asvec .
following marsha 's mota , smith began a lengthy vidak batll over a share of uske aste .
uske mamla , marsha v. marsha , phonch the u.S. pram adalt on a sawal of sanhhy cthsarr , aor again on a sawal of dipana court phikar ( abhi called stern v. marsha ) .
smith died on farr 8 , 2007 in a holid , florrrr ghol rum as a pranamn of an overdose of nuska dawaon .
bhitr the phaila chaa mahino of uske jivan , smith thay the foss of a naciran dabae karve surrounding the mota of uske bete , denil , aor the paternity aor catdi batll over uske vanat bete , dannielynn .
The is eke denomination of japani yean .
The current dijanin thay pahlo minted in 1959 using Japanese warna gyat as the `` new scrit `` , aor yhoo bhii minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese warna .
five-yen sikke tithi to 1870 ( jajb , due to the much uchar maana of the yeen , vey yhoo minted in sunha ) .
the samna of the sikka depicts a rice santrr growing aut of the water , saah `` pach yaan '' lika in kanji ; the waps is stamped with `` japani '' aor the saal of samm , bhii in kanji , alag by sprouts of a pepad .
the tinn grekic tatv of the sikka represent krshi aor fisheries , the kunje tatv of the japani first-sector arvasha .
around a chade , vahi is a gier kiya represents udgo .
It is the tabhi japani sikka in parana to kami Arabic numerals on either phans .
TLC is an amri ladki smoh jinke rangal spanned r & b , hep hoap , attm , durg , aor nayi jokar sulo .
originally consisting of singar tionne `` t-boz '' wataons , rapper lisa `` baya nazar '' lopes and singar rozonda `` chilli '' thamas , the smoh mila unprecedented kamay in the 1990s while bhii enduring a shari of spats saah the vidhi , pratk other , aor the smoh 's rakar lable .
initially , tlc hasil wyniik success following the reezl of unko debut album ooooooohhh ...
on the tlc Tip , jisse bechi 6 lakho naal wipyi .
however , it thay unko duori ellam , CrazySexyCool , kiya catapulted the smoh to superstar akat .
CrazySexyCool gari on to be certified damnd by the riaa kaa a pahlo liya a mada smoh , aor hakar bechi 23 lakho naal wisy .
pach xalo bada , the smoh released unko tisra ellam fanmail , jisse became the smoh 's pahlo ellam to debu at cramak eke aor bechi adhek than 11 lakho naal wipsy .
The subsequent daura following fanmails relaje became the utcham grossing daura of all samay by a maada band .
in 2002 , lisa `` bayn nazar '' lopes died in a car durta in horos .
saath mahino bada , t-boz aor Chilli released the group 's chath ellam 3d , jisse bechi 2 lakho naal wipyi , it prishit unreleased vocals isse bayn Eye .
bilorbodd patricoa ranked tlc as eke of the mataam musical trios .
between 1992 aor 2003 , the band sachint teen shers teen singles , haar cramak eke singles , haarr multi-platinum ellam , aor four grami pukar .
at the smapt of 1999 , TLC thay crem as the satva sabse kamab adhinn of the 1990s by bilorbod .
in 2008 , the smoh thay inducted into the seb samay hot 100 clakar Hall of kitri by the vahi magazine , at 56th plale .
kiya saal it thay bhii listed as the # 25 R & b/hip-hop clakar of the preceding 25 xalo .
tlc raai bechi adhek than 65 lakho records wisy aor vey hain crem as the duori behatin selling mada smoh of seb samay , aor the behtan selling female r & b smoh of seb samay .
In 2012 , tlc crem 12th on vh1 's 100 mataam malaoo in muck , being crem the cramak eke seb ladki smoh on kiya suchi .
tarjan is a 1999 amri animated adherer filli idpit by walte dijne visha anmichin aor vitr by walte digne raver .
the 37th filli in the walte dijne anaemed clask , it is aarat on the story tarjan of the apes by adgar rais barof , aor is the tabhi prmuk gati hitrr version of the stori tarjan pripti to be aneemed .
nisdan by criss buck aor coven Lima with a patha by tab marfi , bob tzudiker , aor Noni swath , tarjan shuvien the aave of toni goldwyn , minnie dravrr , glean bandh , and rogi o'donnell saah braan dhani , talar henriksen , vena nati , aor nigal hawthorne .
it thay the pichla bona fide hit pahlo the dijne slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically aor $ 448,191,819 wisy , outgrossing isko purtive hercules ( 1997 ) aor Mulan ( 1998 ) .
at the time of isko reezl , isko utpann baje of $ 130 lakho bana it the sabse mahng anaemed film kahi bana , aabak awal by dijnne 's apna $ 140 lakho khazana graha in 2002 .
it thay bhii the pahlo dijne anaemid visha to khole at # 1 chunki pocahontas .
inse thay the pichla prmuk box daftr kama of the dijne punna .
aal moch p-51 bandh the brayay coast is a semi-submersible mach .
aal platform mittelplate in the utar smadra
an aal mach , ( offshore platform or colloquially aala rega ) is a visal dhana with suvithon to drrli kuon , to nikle aor prakm aal aor pratic gaas , and to temporarily storr utp aabak it can be brought to shore for shadn aor wipan .
in many mamle , the mach contains suvithon to house the workforce as khoo .
depending on the halto , the moch may be ficd to the smander manjil , may consist of an crutrim dewip , or may flache .
rimat subsea kuon may bhii be kant to a mach by prava lanoone aor by umbilical konnsocs .
yaa subsea saaaan may consist of eke or adhek subsea kuon , or of one or adhek manifold ceeoo for anek kuon .
dhar is the hatya of animals , usually kiya of rehlu phudnn liya khana .
The pesu sabse commonly slaughtered liya khana hain chapon , jala bhains ( liya beef aor vila ) , seep , barkin ( liya mamne aor matnn ) , suor ( for poak ) , ghode ( for ghoda maans ) , aor fowl , largely moroon , turkeys , and batho aor increasingly machli isse the aquaculture udgo ( machli khati ) .
the swath haas , the addhs 's adhak nivas aor bech of the prashan
antra the sont raay swanhann , the addhs of the sonk raay is the head of raay aor head of sarki of the sonte raay .
as chief of the kariila shokh aor sair of the sanhiyn sarki as a purre , the prissi is the utcham political daftar in the sonte raay by influence aor manta .
the addhs is also the commander-in-chief of the sont raay haraad shatiyan .
the president is indirectly nicv to a four-year pada by an choni kalag ( or by the haas of prtthin chahe the chonve kalag asal to pukkar an ners bhuut of maat to khoi witt ) .
chunki the autaan of the Twenty-second amendment to the sonte raay swanhann in 1951 , no person may be nicv addhs adhek than twice , aor no eke jau raai parosa adhek than dho xalo of a pada to jisse kisi else was nicv may be elected more than akar .
upon the mota , ista , or hatna isse office of an lalima addhs , the vaisa addhs assumes the daftr .
the addhs jarur be at tanik 35 xalo of aoo aor a `` pratic born '' nagric of the sont States .
inse suchi shaml tabhi those wantoon jau yau sworn into daftar as president following the autaan of the sont raay swanhann , jisse took praaav on kuch 4 , 1789 .
liya amri netoo pahlo inse autaan , dekhi President of the mapdii cornes .
the suchi karta nahi shaml khoi ectiting Presidents antra the twenty-fifth amendment to the sont raay Constitution .
vahi have marhu 43 logo sworn into daftr , aor 44 presidencies , as goor cloved parosa dho non-consecutive terms aor is gine khraada as dano the 22nd aor 24th addhs .
of the individuals nicv as addhs , haarr died in daftar of pratic causes ( William hanir harsion , zachary teller , varven G. harding , aor Franklin D. rujvelt ) , haar yhoo assassinated ( abrah lincoln , jems A. fardlfe , vilau mckinley , aor jaan F. kende ) aor eke resigned ( rihardes nisna ) .
zarg vashitnn , the pahlo addhs , thay adatan in 1789 bada a sarvat vote of the choni kalage .
leva hanir harsion karhh the shortest samay in daftr saah 32 days in 1841 , aor froniin D. Roosevelt karhh the longest with over barah xalo , laciin died shortly into uske choth pada in 1945 .
He is the tabhi addhs to serve adhek than dho sharte , aor a swankh amendment , affecting rastyon bada hairi trom , was passed to seema the cramak of tammis an wiqtit can be nicv addhs .
andryo jaska , the satva addhs , thay the pahlo to be elected by meen of all classes in 1828 bada most kann barring non-land-owners isse matan yhood repealed .
varvan harding thay the pahlo nicv bada malaon gained matan adhro in 1920 .
ithes rikar haar rastyoo kaa jaan q adms , rafdorde B. haze , bennnn Harrison aor zarg W. boosh kaa jau khoya the lercoria vote lackine assumed office .
jaan F. Kennedy raai marhu the tabhi addhs of Roman chalic asta , and the varman addhs , barak uba , is the pahlo addhs of afri descent .
anek firearms saah detachable suppressors , isse shers to niche : an uzi , an ar-15 , a heckler & Koch USP rentik , a beretta 92fs , aor a sig mahhar .
bolt action rimfire rail saah suppressor
awm-f snipir rail saahh salaan suppressor .
a suppressor , dhani suppressor , or sound mattrr , is a antar salaan to or part of the barul of a firearm jisse reduces the rashi of rava , aor praha the rashi of muzzle flach , utna by faaring the hathir .
a suppressor can be prutt dano with a firearm aor saah sepii aeyr ganne .
halki it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , inse pada is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the dhani of a prash , vishar eke chalti teaj than the gati of dhani , through the air can nahi be eliminated .
using a suppressor in long uldha suthing ( i.e . vrh than 300 mitr ) can lessen , or retard , the prat at the moment of praaav , aor banan the impression of khasi nikat the nisha .
the rava sona near the muzzle as a prash pette the barul , halik subdued , is nahi muk at seb .
a suppressor is praha a matl belan saah atric mechanisms to reduce the dhani of faaring by slowing the escaping propellant gas aor sometimes by reducing the velocity of the goli .
jaldi suppressors you nirm around the shurt of the 20th century by anek aarika .
amri aarika hiram prrsi khat ( nahi to be ulna saahh hiram stavs khat , hiram prrsi 's pita , aor the aarika of the khat antar ganne ) , is credited saahh inventing aor selling the pahlo commercially kamab maal circa 1902 ( patented 30 kuch 1909 ) .
khat diya uske antar the trademarked naam khat Silencer .
the mafar liya atric dhan engines thay viksit in smantar saahh the firearm suppressor by khat in the early 20th sadi , using anek of the vahi catcoon to provide quieter-running injan ( in anek uoripy deso atmolo mufflers hain sthil pukra silencers ) .
the sabd silencer in sandhr to gun suppressor remains in widespread upag , although it raai chunki gire aut of hasan saahh kuch , vishar among the firearms udgo , hona replaced saah the adhek literally steek term dhani suppressor or baae suppressor , cumi a `` sound suppressor '' kurta nahi `` khasi '' khoi hathir , blki it eliminates muzzle flache aor reduces the sonk dawa of a firearm discharging .
aam uppg aor u.S. vidhan bhasa hasan the historically pahlo pada , silencer .
in u.S. vidhi , the sharte `` firearm muffler '' aor `` firearm silencer '' hain synonymous .
suppressors yhoo regularly prutt by aezen of the sont raay daftar of rentic sevan , jau favored the newly designed unchi maank hdm .22 long rail pistl during sanaar hudd ii .
oss nidsk William jasse `` genle dheek '' doon demonstrated the pistl liya addhs frnchil D. rujvelt at the swath haas .
according to oss shadh mukhy sthni Lovell , doon ( an budha and visepian dost of the addhs ) thay harra into the Oval daftar , jaha Roosevelt thay dictating a ashrr .
abki rujtlet smapt uske sansee , doon turned uske waps aor fired teen gilo into a sandbag he thaa brought saah ussy , hogit kaya he thaa kiya aor haat the dhorpan ganne to the astonished addhs .
the angoe soe ( khaas purahla kariila ) welrod hatya pistl with an ahin suppressor thay also used by the amri oss on clandestine purahla in naji occupied uoripy dauran the duori sanaar hudd .
beatrice `` bea '' arthr ( may 13 , 1922 kaa apryl 25 , 2009 ) thay an amri aahiti , comedienne , and singar jinke karir spanned saat saako .
arthr hasil kitri as the ashrr maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms seb in the puriar aor Maude , aor as dorri zbornak on the 1980s sitcom the suhrr ladkoyan , jitna ami pukrar liya dano bimiin .
a stet aahiti dano pahlo aor after her talvin kama , dho jeet the toni pukrar liya behatin prishit aahiti in a musical liya uske prashan as verr charll in the asli daala of mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 japani 3d computer-animated filli aarat on the tekken veeo khel shari , idpit by dital frontier aor vitr by asmik ikka entertainment in samnh saah bandai entertainment .
the filli premiered in utar amriaa by bandai entertainment on julaya 26 , 2011 , aor in alrtaraa on julaya 27 , 2011 in a khaas exclusive one-off serinning .
it thay released on sitabar 3 , 2011 in japani .
the filli thay released on blu-ray diskk on nambar 22 , 2011 liya yusy , aor dismar 1 , 2011 for japani .
inse filli thay bhii released on dvd on nambar 22 , 2011 ( 2d sankan tabhi ) .
the filli was additionally shaml saah the paatten 3 khel , tekken sankar , aor the Nintendo 3ds sherak , tekken 3D : prahan sankar .
liya a chara of nonprofit , voluntary paros kalat smoh , see paros samnh .
in the sont raay , a homeowner association is a nigm formed by a riyll aste dever liya the purpose of marketing , monjing , aor selling of ghero aor laut in a aavis subdivision .
it andan the devar vishar matan adhrol in shasi the samnh , abki allowing the devar to nikas vitti aor vidak jimar of the santhan , typically by transferring swatt of the samnh to the homeowners bada selling bandh a predetermined cramak of laut .
sasta in the homeowners samnh by a aavis khadrr is typically a condition of kharide ; a khadar is n't diye an kilk to asvec it .
sabse homeowner assionnnn hain incorporated , aor hain subject to state statutes kiya govern non-profit corporations aor homeowner assionn .
raay oversight of homeowner assionn is minimal , aor mukt takes the roop of kann jisse hain asagt isse raay to raay .
kuch raay , aisa as Florida aor California , have a visal deh of homeowner samnh vidhi , aor some raay , aisa as muccotus , have vasth no homeowner samnh vidhi .
the tivram growing roop of vaaas in the sonte raay aage is common-interest developments ( cids ) , a shari kiya shaml planned-unit developments of single-family ghero , condominiums , aor cooperative armeten .
Since 1964 , homeowner assionn have become increasingly aam in the yusy .
The jatio assionnen santhan wapar samnh anaun kiya hoas governed 24.8 lakho amri ghero aor 62 lakho neeoone in 2010 .
a prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
vahi hain anek breeds of ginne suar jisse have marhu viksit chunki isko domestication ca . 5000 bc .
breeds vary widely in roop aor purpose , ranging isse dikha breeds with long , bahti iball to those in use as maal jivo by vigaan .
isse ca . 1200 ad to the sspne conquest of the inka samry in 1532 , thank pranan by swash dhasin amri peoples resulted in anek kismo of rehlu ginne suor , jisse form the adhar liya kuch of the adhuok rehlul breeds .
jaldi andean breeds were primarily rakha as agricultural bhandar liya khana , aor pratan at improving the ginne suar as a khana corse continue to the adhun era .
saah the nirt of Guinea pigs to uoripy in the 15th sadi , the lashy in breeding shifted to foss on the vikas of appealing paltu .
to inse smapt , vinna prashi pranan organizations yhood sapit by fanciers .
the amri cavy pranaak samnh , an adjunct to the amri ragho pranak samnh , is the shasi deh in the sont States aor kanda .
the angove cavy prashad governs cavy clubs in the sont kidam .
saaman santhan mood in alrtaori ( altrieeb nasal cavy prashad ) aor nayi jiland ( New jiland cavy Club ) .
pratk cloo publishes isko apna maank of purtna aor determines jisse breeds hain yogya liya prish .
nayi breeds continue to emerge in the 21st sadi .
halik there hain anek breeds of ginne suar , tabhi a few breeds hain commonly mila on the dikha table as paltu .
sabse Guinea suor found as paltu yhoo either mila anchin by breeders or yhoo karva to be sukh paltu regardless of kasa khoo they mile the nasal maank of purtna .
the choti iball , Abyssinian , peruvian aor sheltie ( urja silkie ) breeds hain those sabse frequently dekhi as paltu , aor the purva tinn hain the camer breeds in the ithes of the prashio prish of gine suor .
in addition to unko standard form , nearly seb breeds come in a satan tupaar .
satins , due to unko khola hair shafts , possess coats of a khaas gloss aor chaak .
however , vahi is growing pram kiya the jeeno jimer liya the satan kote bhii can karnne kathor asthi samnsy , sahit Osteodystrophy aor peete 's bimar .
Showing satan visaan is nisha by kuch cavy pranak ' assionn cumi of inmll welfare karnne .
seb cavy breeds have some saza samay manko : the sair prafile should be rounded , saah visal aakhe aor visal , smooth kano .
the deh chahe be madar aor of kampatt build .
kote ranga chahe in seb visaan be clearly parah aor thorough isse root to tep .
These manko hain behatin mila by long sthpt , commonly bred breeds , as unko pranak have thaa prapt samay aor pesu to effectively nsal liya yaa qualities .
the kote ranga adesh of good definition aor thoroughness is rarely mila by anya than the smooth coated breeds , jisse have thaa khoo sthpt , prath pranan lanoone liya different ranga .
State sulcoon ( bhii gyat as public sulcoon or sarki slooo ) generally refer to prathak or dwitek sulcoon mandated liya or offered to seb children without chaar shusl liya , in purre or in part , by kadaan .
the pada may bhii refer to santhon of post-secondary siska vitt , in purre or in bhag , aor overseen by sarkr .
the ramoo assembles polymeric pratin aoon jinke anurm is nintr by the sequence of maxar rna aoon .
inse is jarri by seb jeena cells aor sandh vaisar .
the ramoo ( isse ribonucleic esid aor the Greek shom , arth `` deh '' ) is a visal aor jatl ann antar , mila bhitr seb jeena komiie , kiya serves as the prathak sayit of biological pratin sanshenn ( andad ) .
ribosomes kadi amnoo acids saah in the anurm nirt by maxar rna ( mrna ) aoon .
ribosomes consist of dho prmuk kaa choti ribosomal subunit padhe the mrna , abki the visal subunit joins amnio acids to roop a polypeptide kadi .
pratke subunit is composed of eke or adhek ribosomal RNA ( rrna ) aoon aor a kismo of protin .
The anurm of diyne ancoii liya a protin may be kapi many tamiams into maxar rna ( mrna ) ganjor of a saaman anurm .
ribosomes can bind to an mrna kadi aor uppg it as a metlet liya determining the sahi anurm of amno acids in a particular protin .
amnio acids hain chant , ecret aor carried to the ramoo by taraf rna ( trna aoon ) , jisse daale eke bhag of the ramboa aor bind to the maxar rna kadi .
the salaan amno acids are tab linked saah by another bhag of the ramoo .
akar the protin is itpit , it can tab 'fold ' to upaj a vishit functional three-dimensional dhana .
a ramoo is bana isse dewal of rnas aor protin aor is isle a ribonucleoprotein .
pratk ramoo is viat into dho subunits : the choti subunit binds to the mrna patan , abki the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the amnio acids .
jajb a ribosome finishes reading an mrna molecule , yaa dho subunits viat alawa .
ribosomes are ribozymes , cuyi the catalytic peptidyl transferase kalp kiya kadi amnio acids saahh is performed by the ribosomal rna .
ribosomes isse jivon , arkiya aor eukaryotes ( the tinn domen of jivan on darti ) differ in unko size , anurm , structure , aor the anpat of protin to rna .
the matde in dacha allow kuch atacbiank to maar jivon by inhibiting unko ribosomes , while leaving insan ribosomes unaffected .
in jivon aor arkiya , adhek than eke ramoo may mowa saah a singl mrna chain at eke samay , pratok `` padna '' isko anuom aor producing a samnin protin ano .
the ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic komiie functionally resemble anek shuvien of those in jivan , reflecting the sansit vixadi utti of mitochondria .
alar klodd , isyi de duve , aor zarg amli palade were jointly awarded the noolel pukra in physiology or arraiin , in 1974 , liya the discovery of the ribosomes .
the noolel pukra in rasan 2009 thay awarded to venkatraman ramanh , thamas A. steitz and aidi E. yonath liya determining the vista dhana aor yatrin of the ramboa .
the sarrc atric dhana of a tharala
awako of the calvin sayal aor karbann fixation
the light-independent pration of photosynthesis hain rasino pration kiya badle karbann dasioled aor anya yogk into glucose .
yaa pration occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a tharala bahar of the thylakoid lillo .
yaa pration louo the light-dependent pration aor perform further rasino prinion on unhe .
vahi hain tinn phases to the light-independent pration , collectively pukra the calvin sayll : karbann fixation , katate reactions , aor ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( rubp ) regeneration .
despite isko naam , inse process occurs tabhi jajb layit is apaalin .
padhe do nahi carry aut the calvin saylk by ratri .
vey , bajay , reel sucrose into the flumfi isse unko mand reserves .
inse pram happens jajb layit is apaalan swatt of the dyal of photosynthesis ( c3 karbann fixation , c4 carbon fixation , aor crassulacean esid chaye ) ; kamo padhe storr malic esid in unko vacuoles pratok night aor reezl it by dena in anurm to meke inse prakm karya .
in mathematics , a square number or purna varar is an purnk kiya is the varar of an purnk ; in anya sabd , it is the utp of kuch purnk saahh itself .
liya udarnn , 9 is a varar cramak , chunki it can be lika as .
the usual notation liya the suthra liya the varar of a cramak is not the utp , laciin the equivalent ghaaak , praha suna as `` varar '' .
the name varar cramak comes isse the name of the shape ; see niche .
varar sakhnn hain non-negative .
another rasta of saying kiya a ( non-negative ) cramak is a varar cramak , is kiya isko varar jadey hain again integers .
liya udarnn , = kaa , so 9 is a varar cramak .
a positive purnk kiya raai no purna varar divisors magar 1 is called square-free .
liya a non-negative purnk , the th varar cramak is , saah being the zeroth varar .
the ahdara of varar can be extended to kuch anya cramak prilonin .
if taran sakhnn hain shaml , taba a varar is the anpat of dho varar integers , aor , conversely , the anpat of dho vargar integers is a varar ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
starting saahh 1 , vahi are varar sakhnn up to aor shit , jaha the abkit represents the floor of the cramak .
the era of shoh jambat hinht a kaal in the raaatic ithes of the sont raay kiya reflected a chava of nashl purpose aor a khash for ekta among amrie in the aftermath of the napoleonic yddoon .
the era dekhi the patan of the federalist parti aor an smapt to the kadwa dlaat vivd between it aor the prabpll democratic-republican parti dauran the pahlo parti pralil .
addhs jems Monroe endeavored to downplay dlaat sandh in banana uske nominations , saah the pram lashy of nashl ekta and eliminating partiyo altogether isse nashl rajanie .
the kala is so closely sandh saah muroo 's prissi ( kaa ) aor uske prashan lashy kiya uske naam aor the era hain vasth synonymous .
the era of shoh jajbat hinnt a pravatin in amri rajanti saah the smapt of the Federalist Party as amrraa began to develop bada the hudd of 1812 .
abki amrraa thay experiencing vikas aor samdhi bada the war saah bretten , inse era bhii marks the pahlo udarnn of arthec parachon in the growing sont raay .
mirroring the amri praliy prastit by hanir mitti , sutrak tariffs aor the chartering of the Second banko of the United raay jatl the tensh between the utar aor dhasin with the coming of the pahlo vittiy sanket .
While the pada kaa of shoh kaa is praha viewed saah vidna cumi of the raaatic turmoil , arthec factors caused animosity between the utar aor South .
the naman of the kala by itraoo as eke of kaa kaa is often conveyed saah vidna or skepticism , as the ithes of the era thay eke in jisse the ratancil mahol was strained and divisive , vishar among gira bhitr the muroo prashan aor the rapblonn parti .
the phrase kaa of shoh kaa thay coined by bennnn rasll , in the bostan federalist maatr , columbian centinel , on juli 12 , 1817 , following muroo 's vike to bostan , Massachusetts as bhag of uske shoh hoga daura of amriaa .
mariel Margaret `` miya '' hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is a riated amri pesher sokar player .
Hamm niya anek xalo as a aage liya the sont raay mahlo 's nashl sokar toli aor thay a founding sasy of the vashitnn swatta .
hamm scored 158 anthrri lashy , adhek than khoi anya khili , pursh or maada , in the ithas of soccer aor is the tisra sabse capped maada khili in sokar ithas piche kristine lili aor cristit rampone , appearing in 275 anthriy milane .
hamm thay namit the malaon 's FIFA sanaar khili of the saal the pahlo dho tammis kiya pukra thay diye ( in 2001 aor 2002 ) , aor is sadhh as eke of phfa 's 125 behatin jeena khili ( as chuni by kaa ) .
dho thay inducted into the National sokar ghol of kitri as khoo as the alama khel Hall of kitri aor tecas khel ghol of kitri .
dho is the lakkk of go liya the lashy : a chainn 's Guide to jitna in sokar aor jivan aor appeared in the echoom vitri himat to sapna : the stori of the u.S. mahlo 's sokar toli .
vashitnn posti columnist maical Wilbon pukra hamm , `` shaad the sabse marhan athlete of the pichla 15 xalo . ''
Hamm takes a kone laata .
the nayi York redd bulls is an amri pesher sokar toli aarat in harsion , nayi jarsi , representing the nayi yaak mahagar chartel .
the toli competes in the poove smalne of prmuk League Soccer ( mls ) .
it is eke of the teen caatr clab of mls , having competed in the ling since its inception .
the toli thay a founding sasy of mls ( 1996 ) , lackin raai gayi through anek naam pravatin .
the toli thay originally gyat as the nayi york/new jarsi metrostars through 1997 .
isse the 1998 ritu through the 2005 season , the toli thay gyat as the metrostars .
on kuch 9 , 2006 , the toli was bechi to redd Bull gmbh , agri to the toli 's varman name .
vey hain the tabhi asli mls mathar nahi to have jeet khoi significant trofi ( sahit nimat ritu , playoffs , aor noat pritiyo ) chunki inception .
the toli 's best pranam in the mls thay the mls khep phaila in 2008 .
in the us Open Cup , the MetroStars phonch tinn semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , pahlo reaching unko pahlo philal in 2003 , khone kaa to the shego aag .
on agst 26 , 2000 , the metros ' cllit mathis set an mls rakar by soiring pach lashy in a khel virdh the dalas barna .
kuch well-known khild kiya have niya liya the toli shaml giovanni savarese , timat hard , toni meola , tab ramos , alexi lalas , cllit mathis , jozy altidore , maical bradli , clodi reyna , aidi paap , rabtot Donadoni , lothar kaa , Adolfo valasy , Youri djorkaeff , amado ganra , juon pallo kaa , thierry hanir , juninho pernambucano , Jan gunar solli , rafal maase , and tima kahil .
the toli raai bhii thaa well-known kuch , sahit carlos queiroz , carlos alrta parreira , bura kaa , bob bradli , mo Johnston , bross arana aor hans backe .
confucianism , taoism , aor buddhism are eke , a penting in the litang style portraying tinn meen hans by a nadi stricem , 12th sadi , sogn ravash .
estimating the cramak of Buddhists in the sanaar , or in anek deso , is muskl due to definitional mudde as khoo as warik samnsy of enumeration .
to shoru saah , the dharm matton , practices , aor pahan of istt ashiya ( jau comprise the bhuut of the sanaar 's badho by khoi mea ) praha mishri buddhism saah anya paraon sahit Confucianism , the chainnnj folk dharm , daoism , shinto , aor korri shamanism .
sabse ankura of buddhism do nahi belong to curnint congregations , or observe a definite antunn of adherence aisa as lene sharn , banana it muskl to accurately anman the cramak of practitioners .
an aticr challenge is the dusmin of anek nashl sarke ( praha connit ones aisa as chhin or utar korri ) to dharm generally or to buddhism specifically .
sarki netyo in yaa deso may pritit the under-reporting or non-reporting of dharm adherence , resulting in official yug kiya may drastically underestimate the cramak of religious practitioners in yaa deso .
anman of the wipyi baddh yankis daura isse 350 lakho to over eke arab , lackin clester nearer to the pahlo pigar .
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a pigar of 397 lakho .
by prmuk shaam , the sakhnn hain as follows:
( 1 ) mahan buddhism , sahit istt asyy buddhism , saah no kaam than 185 lakho adherents , aor sansht anek tammis kiya anek ( again , depending on definitional mudde ) .
inse is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in chhin , dhasin korri , japani , taava , sanpar , aor Vietnam .
( 2 ) thrvad buddhism , saah no kaam than 125 lakho adherents .
inse is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in candiya , thaldh , laaos , shari lanka , aor barma .
( 3 ) jarva buddhism , saah approximately 20 lakho adherents .
inse roop predominates in the vrh tibbi aor magloien regions , as khoo as in the himle .
besides the swatt deso of magol aor Bhutan , aor vinni territories bhitr kaya is abhi pushi chhin , jaran is pragat to nisht regions of roos ( e.g . kalaicam , burti ) , indiya ( e.g . ladkh , sikk ) , aor nepail ( e.g . khumbu ) .
jaran , bhii gyat as tibbi buddhism , is praha conflated saah tantik buddhism , lackin this is imprecise , as shingon aor anya form of istt asyy buddhism also abaas tantra .
at tanik 7 deso ( shari Lanka , thaldh , candiya , laaos , barma , butaon , aor magol ) have unambiguous baddh majorities .
Depending on kasa eke calculates chaizin aor anya istt asyy adherents , inse pigar might vistar to shaml anek adhek deso .
in addition , buddhism is the raay dharm of candamaa aor bhutan , and receives prominent zikr in the constitutions of thaldh aor shari lanka .
in northern indiya and nepal , the jamin jaha buddhism thay born , the dharm severely astvet dauran the pahlo milam .
whether inse manahi thay due to the Islamic conquest of utare indiya , or to anya carom , remains visad .
dekhi the alekh manhi of Buddhism in indiya .
jems baller hickok ( may 27 , 1837 kaa agst 2 , 1876 ) , behtar gyat as genle dheeak hickok , thay a lauk hero of the amri budha vaste .
His koshl as a gunfighter aor skat , saah with uske pratha as a lawman , provided the adhar liya uske kitti , halki kuch of uske reported karna hain fictionalized .
born aor raised on a farm in gramin elonices , hickok gari vaste at aoo 18 as a bhode from justice , pahla working as a stagecoach dravrr , pahlo he became a lawman in the frontier territories of kansans aor nabra .
He lada liya the samnh foaj dauran the amri sewal hudd , aor gained publicity bada the hudd as a skat , marksman , karta , aor pesher juoir .
between uske law-enforcement karva aor juye , jisse easily overlapped , hickok thay shaml in anek notable shootouts .
he thay shot aor maare abki playing pokar in the Nuttal & mann 's sellon in deadwood , kata territory ( abhi dhasin kata ) .
clakar 's dharna of the jigsa rover vaporizing chatan on mangl .
the rover utara on mangl in agst 2012 .
a magal rover is an swalth mutr gadi jisse propels itself aar the satah of the graha mangl bada lending .
roves have anek labh over stationary landers : vey jache adhek territory , vey can be nishan to dilap shuvien , vey can plale themselves in suni sthai to masam shit mahino aor vey can agrrm the gyann of kasa to perform bhoot rimat rotbc vehicle contol .
vahi have marhu haar kamab robotically sanhls magal roves .
the jeet nodn Laboratory pranh the mangl pathfinder mishan and its abhi niskh sojourner rover .
it currently manages the magal khoji rover mishan 's crisyol asar rover aor niskhr spiet , aor , as bhag of the mangl vigaan prasala mishan , the jigsa rover .
a vittiy audit , or adhek accurately , an aedit of vittiy kathan , is the satan of the vittiy kathan of a vidak antii , saah a view to ecers an aedit raai .
the aedit raai is intended to provide uchat assurance , laciin nahi nersp parkh , that the financial kathan hain prust fairly , in seb samri respects , and/or deye a sacha aor fair dras in accordance saah the financial roptoting ferm .
the purpose of an adit is provide aor udsey swantr praksa of the financial kathan , jisse increases the maana aor vistan of the vittiy kathan utpit by prabhann , yaun increase user visaa in the vittiy bayan , reduce nikvan rark aor natane reduce the lagat of punje of the preparer of the vittiy statements .
vittiy audits hain typically performed by firms of practicing accountants jau hain visha in vittiy roptonin .
The financial aedit is eke of anek prakh crytoy provided by hisab firms .
anek santhan separately employ or hire atric auditors , jau do nahi attest to vittiy ripatas laciin foss mainly on the atric nitran of the organization .
baha auditors may choone to plale simit rilans on the karya of atric auditors .
auditing promotes parsa aor sotak in the vittiy disclosures bana by an santhan , isle hota sans to reduce of such corporations to chipat unscrupulous dealings .
internationally , the anthriy manko on auditing ( isa ) gari by the International auditing aor prakh manko falak ( iaasb ) is maano as the chankam liya audit prakm .
lagch seb jurisdictions aakta auditors to follow the ISA or a local vinna of the isa .
doller sikke have been minted in the sont raay in gold , candi , aor adhar matll sankar .
the pada candi doller is praha prutt liya khoi visal white matl sikka gari by the sont raay saahh a phans maana of eke doller , hali purists zidd kiya a doller is nahi candi unless it contains kuch of kiya matl .
candi doller , the first doller sikka samm , were minted shurt in 1794 .
sunha doller aor gold-colored doller have bhii marhum produced by the sont raay .
the sacagawea aor addhiya doller hain praha referred to as `` sunhe doller '' .
in adhunk tammis , doller sikke have nahi marhu bhoot lercoria in the sont raay .
despite pratan by the sarki to prahr unko use , sabse amri filal uppg the eke doller bill blki than doller sikke .
In sidha aor sthrr udan lifti ( l ) barai wazan ( w ) .
In a banked farr of kaa , lifti barae dona the wazan ( l=2w ) .
the palte anboov 2g aor a doubled weight .
the steeper the banko , the vrh the g-forces .
inse top-fuel dragster can accelerate isse shon to in 0.86 senda .
inse is a aada twarn of 5.3 g. Combined saah the lantov g-force in the stationary mamla the Pythagorean prmme yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( saah g isse gurakh ) is a term liya accelerations laga as wazan aor measurable by accelerometers .
it is nahi a fors , prti se , lackin a fors prti kayi draman .
chunki aisa a fors is perceived as a wazan , khoi g-force can be varn as a `` wazan prti kayi draman '' ( dekhi the parya vishit wazan ) .
the g-force twarn acts as a gunk of weight-like shatiyo liya pratke kayi of an aakt 's draman , aor ( shej liya nisht electromagnetic fors praaav ) is the karnne of an aakte 's twarn in sandh to free-fall .
inse twarn anve by an aakt is due to the vactor yug of non-gravitational shatiyan ectitting on an aakt jhri to mowa .
the accelerations kiya hain nahi produced by gartta hain termed uchat accelerations , aor it is tabhi yaa that hain measured in g-force units .
vey karna tanoo and strains on seste .
Because of yaa strains , visal g-forces may be destructive .
gravitation ectitning alon kurta nahi upaj a g-force , bhii though g-forces hain expressed in multiples of the twarn of a maank gravity .
yaun , the maank gravitational twan at the darti 's satah produces g-force tabhi indirectly , as a pranamn of prithor to it by mechanical shatiyan .
the 1 g-force on an aakt bete on the darti 's satah is caused by mechanical fors exerted in the upward disha by the maidan , keeping the aakte isse going into free-fall .
the upward force isse the maidan ensures kiya an aakte at baaki on the darti 's satah is accelerating seps to the free-fall condition , jisse is the paath kiya the aakt hota follow jajb girna freely toward the darti 's center .
seste antum to free-fall in an inertial trajectory antra the influence of gravitation-only , mahus no g-force .
inse is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' sharte inside a freely girna lifti girna toward the Earth 's bech ( in kakm ) , or ( to shoh suntnn ) sharte ander a spacecraft in darti sasha .
yaa hain udarnn of nerakh twarn ( a badle in gati ) bagar a sannn of wazan .
the anu of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is produced , is synonymous saahh weightlessness .
in the aunsspit of gurakh fille , or in dishin at sahi kaun to them , uchat aor nerakh accelerations hain the same , aor khoi coordinate twarn must be idtit by a samnin g-force twarn .
an udarnn yahan is a prastr in jhri sgec , in jisse saral pravatin in gati hain idpitt by the engines , aor upaj g-forces on the prasta aor aatri .
an augur pakaar a lituus , the curved wand praha prutt as a pretik of augury on roman sikke
The augur thay a pujari aor adhak in the sastir sanaar , vishar prahin romo aor etruria .
uske prmuk bumk thay to interpret the hoga of the devat by studying the udan of pashyon : whether vey hain udte in smoh or alon , kaya noises vey mek as vey fly , disha of flight aor kaya dyalu of pashyon vey hain .
inse thay known as `` lene the auspices . ''
the rasm aor jalne of the augur thay contrl to khoi prmuk undertaking in roman kaa or kaa matters of hudd , comsar , and dharm .
the roman ithara livy tanoo the mattw of the augurs : `` jau kurta not jaan that inse nuagar thay founded tabhi bada lene the auspices , kiya subk in hudd aor in salam , at gher aor vides , was kiya tabhi bada lene the auspices ? ''
farmington phaan is an affluent jatio in southeastern mixang .
it is the duori largest nuagar in Oakland kanti in the u.S. raay of mixagnn .
isko population thay 79,740 at the 2010 yankise .
it is bhag of the upscale northwestern agaro of Metropolitan detr aor is bhii puotar of shar ain arbor .
farmington phaan consistently badhan as eke of the safest sharm in the sont raay , as khoo as in the raay of mixangn .
in 2010 , the chartel crem as the 30th safest nuagar in amriaa .
halic the two sharmo have prath sevan aor pata , farmington and farmington phaan hain praha vichar of as the vahi jatio .
Features of the jatio shaml a recently swar sharr , boutiques , a ventejed seema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , wart galri , aor palcic paak sahit virta paak .
vahi hain anek ataic sait sahit the Longacre House aor the rajal warner mansion .
dano sharmo hain parosa by farmington palcie sulcoon .
farmington Hills serves as a prmukh caaar center liya the greater detr chartel .
present-day chhap of a Late kansyan aoo muhrr
casa muhr ( matrix ) of kaa isse 1570
a muhrr is a antar liya banana an chhap in wax , mitti , pepar , or some anya medium , sahit an embossment on pepar , aor is bhii the chhap yaun bana .
the asli purpose thay to authenticate a dastav , a wrapper liya eke aisa as a adhuok lifa , or the kaar of a saaaak or paec pakaar valuables or anya seste .
the sealing prakm is essentially kiya of a sache , saah the philal hitrr represented on the antar for banana the impression by a mirror-image denain , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) rahta or intaglio .
the seal-making device is bhii referred to as the muhrr mentric or die ; the imprint it creates as the muhrr chhap ( or , adhek rarely , the sealing ) .
if the chhap is bana purely as a rahta resulting isse the vrh pressure on the pepar where the unchi bhag of the mearicees tach , the muhrr is gyat as a shush muhrr ; in seb anya mamle a drav or liquified media ( aisa as ink or mamo ) is prutt , praha in another ranga than the pepar .
liya vidak udshy , the prahi of a muhr may be visaat to shaml barr stamps , or likne nirt sabd ( `` muhrr '' or `` l.s . `` ) .
in the sont raay , the sabd `` seal '' is sometimes abnit to a facsimile of the muhr denain ( in marom or color ) , jisse may be prutt in a kismo of contexts sahit architectural jamte , on flags , or on adhak letterheads .
yaun , liya udarnn , the Great Seal of the sont raay , among other uppg , appears on the rivar of the one-dollar dheek ; aor several of the seals of the U.S. raay appear on unko sandh raay dwar .
in uoriyp , halic coats of arms aor heraldic beej may khoo visha in aisa contexts as khoo as on seals , the muhr denain in isko entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
the padhi of seals is gyat as sigillography or sphragistics .
groundhog dena ( penalaiaa jarmin : grundsaudaag , murmeltiertag ) is a dena manaye on farr 2 .
according to folklore , if it is cloudy jajb a groundhog emerges isse isko burrow on inse dena , taba wastn hoga aiye jaldi ; if it is suni , the groundhog hoga maano dekhi isko chaya aor ritt waps into isko burrow , aor the shit masam hoga continue liya chaa adhek sapath .
adhunk kastom of the aaak involve jasna jaha jaldi morning taar hain aagt to dekhe the groundhog uirte isse isko burrow .
in southeastern penalaiaa , groundhog lodges ( grundsow lodges ) celebrate the aaak saahh fersommlinge , social karm in jisse khana is parosa , bhano are bana , aor eke or adhek g'spiel ( plays or skits ) hain performed liya entertainment .
the penalcai jarni dialect is the only bhasa bula at the vent , aor those jau bolo angrij ada a dand , praha in the form of a nikle , dime , or quarter prti sabd bula , saah the dhan put into a catro in the bech of the talac .
the largest groundhog dena jasna is aegt in punxsutawney , penalaiaa .
groundhog dena , already a widely pahan aor lercori paraa , received faili dhaan as a result of the 1993 filli groundhog dena , jisse thay set in punxsutawney , PA ( halki filma primarily in wudaatk , il ) aor portrayed punxsutawney phila .
unchi resolution image of tampa khadi pradesh
the Tampa Bay chartel raai a ardr upsh jalvo ( koppen cfa ) , saah warm and ardr gresh saah baar thunderstorms and drier dardiyan saah jamne temperatures occurring pratke kaa xalo .
the chartela anoov a significant garman gila ritu , as nearly two-thirds of the salan varhh jalat in the mahino of juon through sitabar .
the chartel is sadhh by the sont raay viag of krshi ( usii ) as hona in hardiness mandl 10 , jisse is prachy the utare seema of jaha narrila haliian aor royal haliian can be grown .
highs praha daura between 65 aor 95 kaa ( 18 aor 35 kaa ) year golar .
halki gyat liya hot gresh , tampa 's adhak unche has never phonch 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the nuagar 's all-time rekar tapan is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
st. pirtag 's all-time record unchi is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
Pinellas kanti suth on a prawi between tampa khadi aor the galf of masko , aor much of the nuagar of tampa suth on a smaller prawi jutting aut into tampa khadi .
inse nikta to visal laase of water dano narthpyon temperatures aor introduces visal amounts of humidity into the mahul .
in samay , the laol communities farthest isse the coast have larger tapan siemon , dano dauran a singl dena aor throughout the seean of the saal .
a arekh of the lerctitinn nark , prish vinnin gune aar the daura of barbant aor wavelengths
the elactictenne nark is the daura of seb sansit barbant of elarctitin vikrinn .
the `` elactictenet nark '' of an aakt raai a alag arth , aor is instead the characteristic vitran of electromagnetic vikrinn utri or aafshot by kiya particular abtt .
the elarctitinn nark extends isse niche the kaam barbant used liya adhuok redior sanhar to gama vikrinn at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) smapt , thereby covering wavelengths isse hazaro of cllomit bas to a binnn of the akar of an atom .
the seema liya long wavelengths is the akar of the brand itself , abki it is vichar kiya the short wavelength seema is in the vicinity of the Planck length , halki in principle the nark is annta aor nirtar .
Most bhag of the elarctitinn nark hain prutt in vigaan liya spectroscopic aor anya probing interactions , as trrke to padha aor characterize paath .
in jod , vikrinn isse vinnin bhag of the spectrum raai mila anek anya uppg liya communications aor nirman ( dekhi elactictenne vikrinn liya adhek arpon ) .
lende
frnchil delano rujvelt ( or ; janri 30 , 1882 kaa apryl 12 , 1945 ) , bhii gyat by uske adsaar , fdr , thay the 32nd President of the sont raay ( kaa ) aor a contrl pigar in sanaar karm dauran the mid-20th sadi , agrin the United raay daaran a samay of wisy economic vasad aor kool hudd .
a prabpll nata of the lactank parti and the tabhi amri addhs nicv to adhek than dho sharte , he nirm a nayi sade ganbhann kiya realigned amri rajanti bada 1932 , as uske rehlul netooon parah amri liberalism liya the madhy tisra of the 20th sadi .
saah the bouncy lercori sogn `` pransan deno hain yahan again `` as uske aiaan thema , fdr prrat lalima rapblonn harbat huoar in nambar 1932 , at the ghrri of the gree vasad .
sacriao by uske neeji vega over poloy , fdr 's unfailing optimism aor sacrtaor contributed to a narkar of the nashl spiet .
he worked closely saah angoe prahan mantri vintan charchl aor sovet General cchrv Joseph stalin in leading the allies virdh jarni aor japani in sanaar War ii , aor restoring samdhi to the swash 's economy .
in uske first sho deno in daftr , jisse began kuch 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt parthran prmuk vidan aor gari a profusion of executive adesh that instituted the nayi sade kaa kismo of karm designed to upaj rahta ( sarki karya liya the baraar ) , riker ( arthec vikas ) , aor sudhar ( through vinnim of waale goli , banko aor prahan ) .
the arvasha improved rapidly isse 1933 to 1937 , lackin tab relapsed into a gahne mandi .
the bipartisan rudvid ganbhann kiya formed in 1937 prevented his paaking the pram adalt or gujar khoi considerable legislation ; it abolished anek of the rahta karm jajb bargii diminished dauran sanaar hudd ii .
Most of the regulations on caaar yaud ended prachy kaa , magar liya the vinnin of waale Street by the proti aor ecchsng aag , jisse sthil exists .
saah saah anek choti karm , prmuk surviving karm shaml the sanhhy jama bima niga , jisse thay nirm in 1933 , aor sohll surkha , jisse corgens passed in 1935 .
as World hudd ii loomed bada 1938 , with the japani arman of chhin aor the aktama of naji jarni , fdr diya madar raanic aor vittiy support to chhin aor gree bretten , abki remaining officially nturl .
uske lashy thay to meke amrraa the `` arsel of laktar `` jisse hota salai munitions to the allies .
in kuch 1941 , rujvelt , saah congressional swieti , provided lend-lease shota to the deso lada virdho Nazi jarmin saah Britain .
saah bhoot madar nasal support , he bana hudd on japani aor jarni bada the japani arman on parla haarb on dismar 7 , 1941 , colling it a `` date jisse hoga seav in infamy `` .
he prvis the mobilization of the u.S. arvasha to support the aladi hudd pratan .
As an crisyol military nata , rujvelt implemented an overall hudd ranti on dho fronts kiya ended in the shikt of the Axis shatiya aor the vikas of the sanaar 's pahlo ano bamari .
In 1942 rujvelt ordered the internment of 100,000 japani amri naroim .
bargii dropped to 2 % , rahta programs largely ended , aor the addoii arvasha grew rapidly to nayi hattas as lakho of logo stint to nayi karya in hudd centers , aor 16 million meen aor 300,000 mahlo yaud drafted or volunteered liya sayn sewa .
rujvelt chrvs the amri raaatic saaki nahi tabhi dauran the barah xalo of uske prissi , laciin bhii liya saako afterward .
he orchestrated the realignment of mataa kiya nirm the paavo Party System .
fdr 's New sade ganbhann sonk madrur samnh , biga nuagar mashen , swath ethnics , afri amrie aor gramin swath Southerners .
he bhii baawa the bada sushi of the sont rashra aor bretton vuds .
rujvelt is consistently reated by vido as eke of the shers tinn u.S. rastyo , saah with abrah lincoln aor zarg Washington .
A udar dokrem , rujvelt parah uske charic stith as `` a choti bayn of bech . ''
a sont Committee is a pada in rajanti kiya is prutt to refer to a kamit bana up of members of both kasho of a bicameral nidla .
in anya contexts , it refers to a kamit saah saxy isse adhek than eke santhan .
the vinnim of vasti in the sonte States is nahi among the enumerated shatiya of the sanhiyn sarki ; antra the daswa Amendment to the sonk raay swanhann , it is isli exclusively the domen of the raay to prrti , prohibit , or varna vinit wyniik sex , magar insofar as corgens may vinit it as bhag of antrijy comsar saah kann jaise the mann adhinn .
in sabse raay , vastiv is maano a misdemeanor in the shari of palcie anuom aphroo , a aphroo kiya disrupts the anuom of a community .
it thay at eke samay maano to be a vagrancy aphroo .
fihal , nafa is the only raay to allow vashl vastiv , the sharte of jisse hain stipulated in the Nevada Revised statutes .
tabhi 8 kanti filal contain crisyol brothels .
seb form of prostitution hain illegal in claak kanti ( jisse contains the lalaa kaa metropolitan area ) , washoe kanti ( jisse contains reno ) , karsa nuagar , dgals kanti , aor lincoln kanti .
the anya kanti theoretically allow brothel vastiv , laciin kuch of yaa kanti filal have no crisyol brothels .
goli vastiv , `` pandering , '' aor living bandh of the proceeds of a vash remain illegal antra nafa vidhi , as elsewhere in the desh .
as saah anya deso , vasti in the United raay can be viat into tinn waak shari : goli vastiv , vashl vasti , aor aroosann prostitution .
The nashl dwar of the sont States of amriaa , praha simply referred to as the amri dwar , consists of tarh barar aada dharnn of redd ( shers aor niche ) prati saah white , saah a blon aatar in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` samnh '' ) bearing paaas small , swath , five-pointed sitaom arranged in nano faste aada pakti of chaa sitaom ( shers aor niche ) prati saahh pakti of pach stars .
the 50 sitaoo on the dwag represent the 50 raay of the sonk raay of amrraa aor the 13 stripes represent the tarh angoe colonies kiya hogt swatta isse the Kingdom of gree bretten aor became the first raay in the samnh .
nicknames liya the flag shaml the `` sitaoo aor dharnn '' , `` budha mahima `` , aor `` the star-spangled dwar . ''
indiya is a sanhhy union of raay comprising twenty-eight raay aor saat samnh territories .
the raay aor territories hain further subdivided into gille aor so on .
congressional geele liya the 113th sont raay corgens
2010 yankiti change:
