A partly submerged himne cave on Perito Moreno Glacier .
the ice facade is approximately 60 m high
Ice formations in the Titlis himne cave
A glacier cave is a cave formed bhitr the barf of a glacier .
Glacier caves are often called barf guffan , but this term is properly used to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an object saah the circumference of a circle or rotation along a golar path .
It can be uniform , with constant angular rate of rotation ( and constant speed ) , or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation .
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional body involves golar motion of isko parts .
The equations of motion describe the gati of the center of mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion include : an artificial satellite orbiting the Earth at constant height , a stone which is tied to a rope and is hona swung in vrat , a car turning through a curve in a race track , an electron moving labtt to a uniform magnetic fillu , aor a gear turning inside a mechanism .
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly badnla direction , the moving object is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in the direction of the bech of rotation .
Without this twan , the object would mowa in a straight line , according to Newton 's laws of motion .
Apollo Creed is a fictional ashrr from the raki films , initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the sanaar .
He was played by Carl Weathers .
Creed had anek nicknames , including The Master of Disaster , The King of Sting , the Dancing vinaak , The Prince of Punch , The One and Only and The Count of moute Fisto .
Urban legend states kiya aplo panth 's name is a wordplay on the Apostles ' panth , a statement of visaa prutt in Christian churches .
All of Apollo 's championship fights were anunut for the 15 galar ulha .
Championship fights kiya not convert from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
raki Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , aor blue trunks ; Creed was the first man to wear them ( latterly worn by Rocky balwa in the 3rd aor 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he pahna red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's hastar colors yaud blaec and kaa he used in the latest movie .
In the United raay , the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the sont States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article ii of the United States Constitution .
in jod to the Supreme adalt of the United States , whose existence and kuch aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the swankh power of Congress to alter , acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , aor 94 United States district nyloy .
Every judge appointed to aisa a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions shaml the Chief Justice and Associate justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described yaun far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III dhythoii '' because they exercise the nyak sackit vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In jod , judges of the Court of International Trade exercise nyak power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts , including magistrate judges and dipana judges , are also sometimes referred to as `` federal dhythoin '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , and unko power derives from Article I instead .
dekhi alekh I and Article III tribunals .
The beretta 21A Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by beretta in Italy .
utpann began in late 1984 , solely in the Beretta U.S.A. swida in Accokeek , Maryland .
it is a further development of the Beretta Model 20 , whose production ended in 1985 .
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to VUL ) is a type of life insurance that builds a cash value .
In a VUL , the nadi value can be invested in a wide variety of separate khate , similar to mutual funds , and the choice of jisse of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the andhun owner .
the 'variable ' component in the name refers to this ability to invest in separate accounts whose values kaa vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets .
The 'universal ' component in the nami refers to the flexibility the owner has in banana priemium bhugat .
the premiums can vary isse nothing in a given month up to maximums defined by the Internal Revenue Code liya life bima .
inse flexibility is in contrast to purre life insurance kiya has fixed premium payments kiya typically can not be missed bagar lapsing the niti ( although one may exercise an Automatic priemium Loan feature , or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life priemium ) .
Variable universal jivan is a type of permanent jivan insurance , because the mota benefit will be shusl if the insured dies any time as long as there is sufficient cash value to pay the lagat of insurance in the policy .
With most if nahi all VULs , unlike whole life , there is no endowment age ( the aoo at which the cash value equals the death benefit amount , which for whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another key advantage of VUL over Whole jivan .
With a typical whole jivan niti , the mota labh is limited to the face rashi specified in the policy , aor at endowment aoo , the phans rashi is all that is paid out .
Thus saah either death or endowment , the insurance company keeps any nadi value nirm up over the years .
However , some participating whole life policies offer darsirs jisse batan kiya any dividends paid on the policy be used to purchase `` shusl up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value aor the death benefit over time .
If nivesh made in the separate accounts out-perform the general account of the bima company , a higher rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age , continually increasing mota benefit , and if a unchi rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy , this could result in higher maana to the owner or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums .
the outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the classic wood stov adapted for set-up outdoors while still transferring the umsho to interior imarte .
A mound of Girl Scout cookies .
inse mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies bechi by Girl Scouts of the USA ( GSUSA ) as one of its prmuk fundraisers liya local Scout ikii .
Members of the GSUSA have marhu selling cookies since 1917 to raise funds .
Girls who participate can earn prizes for their pratan .
There are also unit incentives if the unit as a whole does well .
As of 2007 , sales were estimated at about 200 million boxes per year .
University Hall
Purdue vilhoove , located in West Lafayette , Indiana , is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue vishoon prali .
purdue was founded on may 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant vilhoove when the Indiana General Assembly , taking advantage of the Morrill Act , accepted a donation of land and dhan isse Lafayette businessman jaan Purdue to establish a college of vigaan , prikii , and agriculture in uske name .
The first classes were held on sitabar 16 , 1874 , with six instructors and 39 students .
aage , Purdue is a member of the Big Ten smalne , aor is a well known world-class research institution .
Purdue enrolls the second largest chaar body of any university in Indiana as khoo as the choth largest international student yankiti of khoi university in the United States .
Purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate programs in over 211 major areas of study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation , having sthtp the pahlo college cretita offered in flight training , the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation , and the first university visaatar ( Purdue University Airport ) .
Purdue 's aviation technology program remains eke of the most competitive aviation-specific karm in the world .
in the mid-20th century , Purdue 's aviation program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight technology giving vrdhi to Purdue 's nickname , Cradle of Astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts , including Gus Grissom ( one of the original Mercury saat astronauts ) , Neil Armstrong ( the first witt to walk on the moon ) , and Eugene cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
A vasay cyst ( ) is a term kiya loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; l72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also gyat as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid gaath originates in the epidermis aor a pilar cyst originates from hair follicles , by definition , neither type of cyst is sakti a sebaceous cyst .
the name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty , white , semi-solid material in both of these cyst entities is not sebum , but keratin .
Furthermore , under the microscope neither entity contains vasay glands .
in practice , however , the sharte are often used interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts hain relatively rare and are gyat as steatocystomas or , if multiple , as steatocystoma multiplex .
Modern pointe shoes .
the edge of the toe pad , which is inserted between the foot and toto box for cushioning , can be seen on the right foot .
a pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by ballet dancers when performing pointe karya .
Pointe shoes developed from the khash liya dancers to appear weightless aor sylph -like aor have viksit to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended avhdi of time .
They are samnth worn by female dancers , though male dancers may pahne them liya unorthodox roles such as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella , Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's Dream , or men performing as women in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They hain manufactured in a variety of colors , most commonly in shades of light pink .
This tablespoon has a capacity of about 15 mL .
Measuring Spoons
in the us and parts of Canada , a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for khane from a bowl .
In the UK , Europe and most Commonwealth deso , a tablespoon is a type of large spoon praha prutt for serving .
In countries where a tablespoon is a seat macha , the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the dessert macha or the soup spoon .
A tablespoonful , nominally the capacity of eke tablespoon , is commonly used as a measure of aage in cuking .
It is abbreviated as T , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by vidhi and is subject to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is lagch 15 ml ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges isse 7 mL to 14 ml .
In Australia one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is 20 ml .
hairi Potter is a series of seven fantasy novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling .
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard , Harry kumar , and his friends Ronald Weasley aor harmini Granger , seb of zisko are students at Hogwarts School of chooll and Wizardry .
the main stori arc concerns hairi 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard rab Voldemort , whose aims hain to become immortal , conquer the wizarding world , subjugate non-magical logo , aor nasht all those who stand in uske rasta , especially Harry Potter .
Since the release of the first novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone on 30 June 1997 , the kitab have gained immense popularity , critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide .
The shari has also had some share of criticism , sahit concern for the increasingly dark tone .
, the book series raai sold about 450 million naal , making it the best-selling book series in history , aor has been translated into 67 bhaan .
the last four books consecutively niyat raadar as the fastest-selling books in history .
a series of many genres , including fantasy and coming of age ( with tatv of mystery , thriller , adherer , and romance ) , it has many cultural meanings aor references .
according to Rowling , the main theme is mota .
vahi are bhii many other themes in the series , such as purva and corruption .
The initial major publishers of the books yhood Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States .
The books have since been published by many prakk worldwide .
the books , with the seventh book split into dho parts , have been made into an eight-part film series by warner Bros. satve , the highest-grossing film series of all time .
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise , making the Harry Potter brand worth in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the success of the books and films , Harry kumar has been used for a theme park , The wizarding sanaar of Harry Potter in Universal Parks & rist 's ailedids of Adventure .
RS-68 hona tested at NASA 's Stennis seep Center .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this engine 's exhaust hona mostly attp bhap ( jala vapor from isko propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5C rocket engine
a rocket engine , or simply `` rocket '' , is a jet injan that uses tabhi stored propellant draman liya forming its high speed propulsive jet .
prasta engines are reaction engines and obtain thrust in accordance with nutan 's third law .
Since they need no external material to form their jet , prastr engines can be used liya spacecraft noda as well as terrestrial uses , aisa as mixalen .
Most rocket injan are internal combustion engines , halki non-combusting form also exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the utcham exhaust velocities , are by dhur the lightest , laciin hain the least propellant efficient of all types of jet injan .
`` ... baby One More Time '' is a song by amri recording artist Britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut single and title track from her debut stiyi ellam , ... Baby One More Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin aor Rami , `` ... Baby eke More samay '' was released on September 30 , 1998 , by jive raadar .
After recording aor sending a demo tape with an aurt song from Toni braxton , Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and dance-pop sogn that refers to a girl jau regrets tokar up with her borrondes .
The song received generally favorable reviews isse critics , who praised its composition .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' attained global success , reaching number one in every country it charted .
It bhii received numerous certifications around the sanaar , aor is one of the best-selling singles of all time , with over 10 million copies sold .
An accompanying music veeo , nisdant by Nigel Dick , portrays sgyr as a student from a Catholic high school , who starts to daydream kiya she is singing and dancing around the school , while watching her priemium interest from afar .
The music video was later sandhti in the music video of `` If U Seek ami `` ( 2008 ) , where Spears 's fictional daughter is vash with a similar schoolgirl outfit while wearing pink ribbons in her iball .
In 2010 , the music video for `` ... Baby One adhek Time '' was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music , in a poll held by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby One More Time '' in a number of seav diwaae and in all of her kanter tours .
It was the encore of the ... baby eke adhek Time daura ( 1999 ) and Dream Within a Dream Tour ( 2001 ) ; Spears bhii performed remixed versions of the sogn during the Oops ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , the Onyx ghol Tour ( 2004 ) , The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ) , The cars Starring Britney Spears ( 2009 ) , aor the Femme fatale Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby One adhek Time '' was manti for a Grammy Award liya Best Female Pop Vocal Performance , and has been included in lists by blender , Rolling Stone aor VH1 .
It has been noted for redefining the sound of latt 1990s music .
Spears raai named `` ... Baby eke More Time '' as one of uske panda songs from uske career .
It was also the final song to be played on the BBC 's music programme Top of the Pops .
haja is an sankan in the small aant caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae .
The main symptoms are watery atarar and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food kiya raai been contaminated by the feces ( waste utp ) of an infected witt , including one with no apparent symptoms .
The severity of the atarra aor vomiting can seese to rapid dehydration and electrolyte imbalance , and death in some cases .
The primary treatment is oral rehydration chikta , typically with oral rehydration saaaan , to replace water and electrolytes .
If this is not tolerated or does nahi provide improvement fast enough , intravenous fluids can bhii be used .
Antibacterial drugs are faade in those with kathor disease to shorten its duration and severity .
wisy , it affects kaa lakho people aor causes kaa mauto a year .
Cholera thay one of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological methods .
The hitrr of Dorian Gray is the only published anko by Oscar Wilde , appearing as the lead story in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 June 1890 , printed as the julaya 1890 issue of this magazine .
The magazine 's editors feared the story was indecent as suppad , so vey censored roughly 500 words , without Wilde 's knowledge , before publication .
But even saah that , the story was still greeted with outrage by British reviewers , some of zisko sujay that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds , leading Wilde to caaav the novel aggressively in letters to the British press .
Wilde bada revised the story for book publication , making substantial alterations , hatna controversial passages , adding new chapters and including an aphoristic Preface jisse has since become famous in its own sahi .
The amended sankan was published by Ward , Lock and Company in April 1891 .
kuch vedo believe that wall would today have chahi us to pada the sankar he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
The novel tells of a young man named dorrin dhuser , the vish of a painting by artist Basil Hallward .
besll is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated saah ussy , believing his beauty is responsible liya a new mode in his wart .
dorrin meets rab Henry Wotton , a friend of Basil 's , and becomes enthralled by Lord hanir 's sanaar drasy .
Espousing a new hedonism , Lord Henry suggests the only things layak pursuing in life are sandar and fulfilment of the senses .
realizing that one day his beauty will fika , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to sell his soul to ensure the portrait Basil has painted hota age rather than he .
dorrin 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of the effect each act raai upon his soul , with pratk sin prish as a disfigurement of his form , or through a chhan of aging .
The hitrr of Dorian Gray is considered a work of clasic ghtick fiction with a strong Faustian theme .
kaa kaa ( born 6 February 1917 ) , known as zor Zsa Gabor ( ) , is a hangri -born American actress jau acted in supporting roles in fillo , on Broadway , and occasionally on talvin .
Gabor was also a socialite .
She began her stage karir in Vienna at age 15 , aor thay crowned mixa Hungary in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after actress with `` European flair and style '' , saah a personality that `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her first movie role was as supporting actress in paare to Look At .
She bada acted in We 're Not Married !
and played eke of uske few leading roles in moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) , directed by jaan hastan , who described uske as a `` creditable '' actress .
Besides her film aor television appearances , she is best known for having nine husbands , sahit hotel magnate Conrad hilate and actor George Sanders .
She once stated , `` Men have always liked me and I have always liked men .
lackin I like a mannish man , a man who knows how to vaat to and treat a woman kaa not just a man with muscles . ''
bross liele ( traditional : kaa ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 nambar 1940 kaa 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese American martial clakar , actor , martial arts instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The founder of Jeet kune do , liele was the son of cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen .
He is widely considered by ticrom , critics , media and other martial artists to be one of the most influential martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
he is often credited with helping to change the way Asians were presented in American films .
Lee was born in Chinatown , San Francisco on 27 November 1940 to aarabh from Hong kaang and was raised in kolon with his family until his late teens .
He was introduced to the film industry by his father and appeared in several films as a child karta .
liele moved to the sont States at the age of 18 to receive uske higher education , and it thay during this time kiya he began teaching martial arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts filli to a new sthrr of popularity aor acclaim , sparking a surge of beaj in Chinese martial kela in the West in the 1970s .
The direction aor tone of uske films changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in Hong kaang and the rest of the world .
He is noted liya his roles in pach feature-length films : Lo Wei 's the Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ) , directed and lika by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both nisdh by Robert Clouse .
Lee became an iconic pigar gyat throughout the world , particularly among the Chinese , as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , lackin later rejected well-defined martial art styles , favouring bajay the use of techniques from various sources , in the spirit of his personal martial kela philosophy , which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the Intercepting Fist ) .
liele held dual citizenship of Hong Kong and the United States .
He died in Kowloon Tong on 20 July 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also known as dirlico obstructive lung disease ( COLD ) , chronic obstructive airway disease ( coad ) , chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) and chronic obstructive respiratory disease ( cord ) , is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in jisse the airways narrow over time .
inse hud airflow to aor isse the lungs , causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ) .
in nadic abaas , COPD is parah by its characteristically low airflow on lung function tests .
In contrast to dama , this limitation is poorly reversible and usually gets progressively worse over time .
copd is caused by noxious ano or gas , most commonly isse tobacco smoking , which triggers an asaan jalne response in the lung .
The diagnosis of COPD requires lung function prashan .
Important management strategies are smoking cessation , vaccinations , rehabilitation , and drug therapy ( praha using inhalers ) .
Some patients go on to require long-term oxygen therapy or lung pratan .
Worldwide , COPD ranked as the sixth leading cause of moua in 1990 .
It is projected to become the fourth agrin cause of death wisy by 2030 , due to an increase in smoking daro and demographic changes in anek countries .
COPD is the third leading cause of death in the U.S. , and the economic bujh of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health paava costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie fenk ( , ? , ; 12 June 1929early March 1945 ) is eke of the most discussed Jewish victims of the holocaust .
Her diary has been the basis for several plays and films .
Born in the nuagar of Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany , she jiya sabse of her life in or nikat Amsterdam , in the Netherlands .
Born a jarni national , fenk lost her citizenship in 1941 .
She gained international fame posthumously bada her diary was published .
it documents her experiences chapan during the German occupation of the nidlandrnt in World War ii .
the Frank privar moved from jarmin to Amsterdam in 1933 , the year the Nazis gained control over Germany .
By the beginning of 1940 , vey were trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands .
as persecutions of the yohu population increased in julaya 1942 , the family gari into hiding in the hidden sash of Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
bada two years , the group was betrayed and transported to visha camps .
Anne fenk and her sister , Margot , were hakar transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp , where vey died of typhus in March 1945 .
Otto Frank , the only survivor of the pravar , returned to addam after the war to find that Anne 's diary thaa been saved , and his efforts led to isko publication in 1947 .
It was andut from its original Dutch aor first prik in English in 1952 as The Diary of a Young ladki .
It has chunki been translated into anek languages .
the diary , which thay given to Anne on her 13th birthday , chronicles her life from 12 juon 1942 aabak 1 August 1944 .
Kurt 's hastar
Kurt Donald kobo ( February 20 , 1967 kaa April 5 , 1994 ) was an American musician and artist , best known as the lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana saah Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle music scene , having its debut album bleech released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with prmukh label DGC Records , the band found bhann success with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the kama of nevermind , Nirvana was labeled `` the lephis band '' of Generation X , and Cobain hailed as `` the parka of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , thay praha uncomfortable and frustrated , believing uske message aor kalari vision to have been misinterpreted by the public , saah his personal issues often subject to media dhaan .
He challenged Nirvana 's daras with its final studio ellam In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his life , Cobain struggled with heroin addiction , bimar and depression .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame aor palcic hitrr , aor the pesher and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself aor his wife , santarr Courtney Love .
on April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was mila murde at his home in Seattle , the victim of what thay officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun ghav to the head .
the halto of his moua at aoo 27 have become a topic of public fascination aor debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , with Cobain as a songwriter , has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million wisy .
redilay engine timing and kamo mechanism .
click liya full resolution animation .
redilay engine of a biplane
Master rod ( katra ) , slaves and balances from a two-row , fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
the radial engine is a reciprocating type internal combustion engine configuration in jisse the cylinders point outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It resembles a stylized sthrr when viewed from the front , and is called a `` star engine '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages .
the radial configuration was very commonly used in aircraft engines pahlo turbine engines became predominant .
the Golden Girls is an American sitcom , created by Susan Harris , that originally aired on NBC from September 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
aubhin Bea Arthur , Betty White , Rue mcclanahan and Estelle Getty , the show centers on four older women sharing a home in miya , Florida .
It was produced by witt/thomas/harris Productions , in association with Touchstone Television , and paal Junger witt , Tony Thomas , and Harris parosa as the original executive nirma .
The suhrr Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won several awards , including the Primetime ami Award liya bikaya Comedy Series twice .
it bhii won tinn Golden Globe Awards liya Best Television Series kaa Musical or Comedy .
All four stars each prapt an Emmy pukra throughout the series ' run and had multiple nominations .
The shari also ranked among the top ten highest-rated programs for six out of its seven seasons .
Deepwater khudi is the process of aala and gass exploration aor production in depths of more than 500 feet .
By this definition , there hain lagch 600 deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico .
It has been economically infeasible for many years , lackin saah rising oil prices , more companies are investing in this area .
prmukh companies working in this sector shaml Diamond Offshore , TransOcean , aor Baker hoos .
There hain morp two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible khudi rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar ( mach ) or tension-leg platform .
Recent industry analysis has estimated that the total expenditure in the global deepwater avachara market will reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa all aal is accessible on land or in shallow water .
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the smander kaa ... Using sonic equipment , oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to upaj oil .
Then they uppg a mobile offshore khudi unit ( MODU ) to dig the araic well .
Some units are privit into utpann rigs , meaning they switch from drilling liya oil to capturing oil once it 's mila .
Most of the time , the aala company will replace the MODU saah a more permanent oil production rig to capture kaa ... The MODU 's job is to drill down into the ocean 's manjil to find aal deposits .
The part of the drill that extends below the deck and through the water is called the riser .
The riser allows for drilling fluids to move between the floor and the rig .
Engineers lower a drill string -- a series of paap designed to drill down to the oil deposit -- through the kaa
kaa expansion of deepwater khude is happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... kaa
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 workers and spilling millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rega was khudi in deep waters .
kaa ... Despite the risks , the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural kaa
kaa karnne for the resumption of such drilling , lislak say , is continuing high demand for energy kaa
America needs the oil so it is almost juri to face the unche risks kiya aiye saah deepwater drilling in order for Americans to continue to carry on their raaz lives .
kaa Energy viga recently projected that gulf oil utpann would expand from isko 2011 sthrr of 1.3 lakho barrels a day , sthil nearly a quarter of total domestic production , to 2 million barrels a day by kaa
Deepwater drilling affects the parva in both taraak and positive ways .
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil spills it is still a hazardous possible outcome .
aal spills result in oil sinking to the niche of the ocean smothering santrr life leaving fish without khana and shelter to survive .
On the other hand deepwater drilling effects the parva in a positive trrke too .
In samay once the deepwater oil well is nahi in use anymore plants will grow on and around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for pesu to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the ghrrioo of the ocean floor that hain hardly ever dekhi .
kaa on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take photos of rare fish that are in there pratic habitat , giving scientist a look at animals they rarely kaa ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
monic Samille lewinsky ( born julaya 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United raay President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions ( which included Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra , , ( dismar 12 , 1915 kaa May 14 , 1998 ) was an American singer and film karta .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey , Sinatra found unprecedented success as a xolo artist from the early to mid-1940s after being signed to Columbia Records in 1943 .
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released his first ellam , The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946 .
His professional karir had stalled by the 1950s , but it was reborn in 1953 after he jeet the Academy pukra for Best supporting karta liya his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol raadar in 1953 and released several critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee choti Hours , gito liya Swingin ' Lovers ! , Come Fly with Me , tabhi the Lonely and Nice 'n ' asaan ) .
Sinatra left katpll to found his apna record label , Reprise Records in 1961 ( dunna kama with elamb such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding ! , Sinatra at the Sands aor Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ) , toured internationally , was a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen , including John F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective September of my xalo , starred in the Emmy -winning talvin special Frank Sinatra : A Man aor His Music , and scored hitas with `` ajabi in the Night `` and `` my Way `` .
saah bakri of his music dwindling and after appearing in several poorly prapt films , sinta retired for the first time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he came out of retirement and in 1973 recorded several albums , scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme isse ) nayi yaak , New York `` in 1980 .
using his lalaa Vegas shows as a home base , he toured dano within the United States aor internationally , until a short time before his death in 1998 .
Sinatra also forged a highly successful karir as a filli karta .
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953 , he bhii garnered a nomination for behatin Actor liya the man with the sunhe Arm , and naun acclaim for his performance in The Manchurian pratiy .
He bhii starred in such musicals as High Society , Pal Joey , Guys and Dolls and On the Town .
Sinatra thay honored at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and was awarded the adchya Medal of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold padak in 1997 .
He was the parta of eleven Grammy Awards , including the Grammy Trustees Award , Grammy Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award .
sinta is also one of kaa best-selling artists of all time , having bechi adhek than 150 million copies worldwide .
Typical cornhole falak
Cornhole , also known as bean thala thos , corn thos , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in which players take turns throwing corn hole bags at a raised platform saahh a hole in the far end .
A bag in the hole scores 3 points , abki one on the platform sakor 1 point .
Play continues until a team or khilad phoch the score of 21 .
The American Gold Eagle is an adhak gold bullion coin of the United States .
prachat under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was first released by the United States Mint in 1986 .
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga kiya Bikram Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga techniques and popularized beginning in the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes run for 90 minutes aor consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
bikra Yoga is ideally practiced in a rum heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) with a ardaa of 40 % , .
crestar Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American karta , comedian aor rapper best known for starring as Michael Barret in Nickelodeon television series Zoey 101 .
Massey raai received anek pukra and nomination sahit a Young Artist Award and Emmy pukra nominations .
he is bhii known for appearing in anek commercials in the jaldi 2000s .
a conventional teaspoon bana of stainless steel .
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring antar , as well as a unit of mapan of aage in some countries and customs .
a fern is any one or more of a group of about 12,000 species of plants belonging to the botanical group known as Pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , they have jalim and phloem ( banana them vascular plants ) .
They have stems , leaves , and roots like other vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via spores aor have neither seeds nor pushpi .
By far the largest smoh of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , laciin ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte bhii refers to ferns aor a few anya seedless vascular plants ( see classification section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the chatan record 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the current families and species did not appear until roughly 145 lakho years pahlo in the jaldi Cretaceous ( bada flowering plants came to dominate many environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance , but some hain grown or gathered liya food , as ornamental plants , liya remediating contaminated soils , aor have marhu the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
kuch are significant weeds .
They bhii play a bumk in mythology , medicine , and art .
Flat roofs in Israel
chapta roof in Los Angeles
A flat roof is a type of covering for a building .
in contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a flat roof is horizontal or nearly horizontal .
The slope of a roof is properly known as isko pitch : Roofs which are nearly chata are known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of dhalan increases , so the pitch is said to increase ) .
Any sheet of material used to cover a flat or low-pitched chaat is usually known as a membrane and the primary purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials kiya cover flat roofs typically allow the water to run off from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system .
Water from some flat roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes flows freely off the edge of a roof , though gutter systems are of advantage in keeping both divaren and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water directly onto the maidan , or better , into a specially made soakaway .
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into the rainwater drainage system of any built up area .
Occasionally flat roofs halki are designed to collect water in a pool , usually for aesthetic purposes , or for rainwater buffering .
Flat roofs exist seb over the world and each area has its apna tradition or preference for materials used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less aor freezing is unlikely to occur , many flat roofs are baae built of masonry or kantri and this is good at keeping out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to nirman where timber is not readily apaalin .
In ctetti where the roof could become saturated by barat and leak , or where water soaked into the brickwork could ferj to ice and thus lead to 'blowing ' ( tokar up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of barf as it forms ) yaa roofs are not suitable .
Traditionally most flat roofs in the western sanaar make use of tar or more usually tar paper lagoo over chaat decking to keep a bhann watertight .
the tar or tarpaper is in farr covered in gravel to keep the sun 's heat , UV rays and weather off it and helps protect it from cracking or blistering and degradation .
Roof decking is praha of plywood , chipboard or OSB boards ( OSB = Oriented Strand falak , bhii known as Sterling falak ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid , heated in a tar kettle , or as chadre of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued down and sealed together at joints by hot tar - once it has cooled , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason liya failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance where people or events cause the gravel to be moved or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing , thus exposing it to masam and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually jala gets in .
Tarpaper is praha a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically isse the roof such as on parapet walls or upstands , tarpaper variants hain produced with fine gravel applied to the hot tarol during the process of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in anuom to give it ongoing protection .
tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship and training of those applying it to produce more or less successful results .
In some micro climates or shaded areas yaa rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase aor cost of lata unhe , however the cost of adhuok membranes such as EPDM has come down over recent years to mek them more aor more affordable .
There are abhi adhek firms supplying adhunk alternatives and there is generally a growing awareness of their prashan aor upbata .
if a lika does occur on a flat roof then khsti often goes unnoticed for long avhdi of time dauran which water penetrates aor soaks the decking and khoi insulation and/or structure beneath it .
This can lead to mahng damage from the rot jisse often develops and if left can weaken the roof structure .
There are also various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould spores : the garrtra of this swast risk remains a debated point .
eke problem saah maintaining flat roofs is that if jala karta penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen .
Thus it is not easy to see where it is leaking in order to repair it .
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further collection or puddling of jala in that area and the prablom worsens .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact diskk which contains data .
The naam is an acronym jisse stand for `` kampett Disc Read-only memory `` .
Computers can pada CD-ROMs , but can nahi likhe on unhe .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software , including video games and multimedia applications , halik any data can be stored ( up to the capacity seema of a disc ) .
kuch CDs , called enhanced CDs , thami both computer data and aodowa with the latter capable of being played on a CD player , while data ( such as tantra or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( aisa as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is the technical standard that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for all CD seup , the Yellow Book , created by Sony aor pilly , was the pahlo extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the format to hold any roop of data .
Joanne `` Jo '' roling ( ) , ( born 31 julay 1965 ) , pen name J. K. Rowling , is a British novelist , best known as the lakkk of the Harry Potter fantasy shari .
The Potter books have gained worldwide attention , won anek awards , and sold more than 400 million copies .
vey have become the best-selling book shari in history , and been the adhar for a series of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in ithes .
Rowling had overall approval on the scripts as khoo as maintaining creative control by serving as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in Yate , tlastar , Rowling was working as a researcher and dumish secretary liya mafee International when she conceived the idea for the hairi kumar series on a delayed train isse manter to lamna in 1990 .
The seven-year period that followed entailed the mota of her mother , divorce from her first husband and grrbi until Rowling finished the first novel in the series , Harry kumar aor the paros 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 kaa last , Harry kumar aor the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) kaa well as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , roling parted with her agency and resumed writing in the roop of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership , hakar The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling raai khaa dho is currently working on two kaa aimed for wasko , the anya for children younger than the Harry Potter audience , aor she expects the latter to be published pahlo .
Rowling has led a `` rags to amri `` life story , in which she progressed from living on state labh to multi-millionaire status bhitr five years .
dho is the United Kingdom 's best-selling author since records began , with sales in excess of kaa .
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling 's fortune at kaa million ( $ 798 million ) , ranking her as the barva richest woman in the United kidam .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most satli celebrity of 2007 , and TIME patricoa named her as a runner-up for its 2007 Person of the Year , noting the social , moral , and political prana dho has diye uske fans .
In October 2010 , Rowling thay named the `` Most Influential Woman in Britain '' by leading magazine editors .
dho raai become a notable philanthropist , supporting such charities as Comic Relief , One Parent Families , anek Sclerosis Society of Great Britain and Lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level Group ) .
auburndale is a city in Polk kanti , flordar , United States .
The population was 11,032 at the 2000 census .
according to the u.s yankiti estimates of 2005 , the city thaa a population of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland kaa Winter Haven mahag Statistical Area .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit during Expedition 7 of the International Space Station .
The nazar , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands , characteristics of tropical cyclones , are clearly visible in this view from space .
A tivra cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure center surrounded by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds aor heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water evaporated from the ocean is released as the saturated air rises , resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the name aeyr .
They are fueled by a different heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters , uoriyp windstorms , and polar lows .
The characteristic that separates tropical cyclones isse other cyclonic systems is that at any height in the atmosphere , the center of a tropical cyclone will be warmer than its pravesh ; a phenomenon called `` garma core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the chagol origin of these systems , which praha form in tropical regions of the globe , aor to their formation in maritime tivra air masses .
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic nature , with counterclockwise wind flow in the Northern Hemisphere aor clockwise hona prav in the Southern galhar .
The opposite disha of the wind flow is a result of the Coriolis fors .
Depending on its location aor strength , a tropical ccarva is referred to by names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm , cyclonic tufan , tropical depression , and baase cyclone .
abki tropical cyclones can produce atdich powerful winds and torrential barat , they hain also able to produce high lahre , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
They develop over visal bodies of garma jala , and lose their sakti if they move over land due to increased surface friction aor loss of the garma ocean as an energy corse .
This is why coastal regions can receive significant damage from a tropical cyclone , abki inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds .
Heavy rains , however , can upaj significant flooding inland , and storm surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to isse the coastline .
Although their effects on human populations can be devastating , tropical cyclones can relieve drought conditions .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward temperate latitudes , which makes them an important part of the global atmospheric parann yatrin .
As a result , tivra cyclones help to maintain equilibrium in the Earth 's troposphere , and to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical cyclones develop when the dovelin conditions around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable .
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles aor patterns such as the Madden-Julian doln , El kaa Oscillation , and the Atlantic multidecadal doln .
anya form when other parkar of cyclones acquire tropical vishati .
Tropical systems hain taba sthan by steering winds in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the other end of the narka , if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tropical ccarva makes landfall , the system weakens and hakar dissipates .
it is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of these systems with current technology .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; December 9 , 1916 ) is an American stage and film karta , film producer and author .
His popular films include aut of the past ( 1947 ) , Champion ( 1949 ) , Ace in the chade ( 1951 ) , The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ) , Lust for Life ( 1956 ) , Paths of Glory ( 1957 ) , Gunfight at the O.K . Corral ( 1957 ) , the Vikings ( 1958 ) , Spartacus ( 1960 ) , Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in May ( 1964 ) , The naak of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
He is no.17 on the American filli Institute 's list of the greatest male American screen muroshur of seb time , making him the highest-ranked living person on the list .
In 1996 , he received the adami Honorary pukra `` for 50 years as a creative aor moral force in the motion picture community . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from Hollywood 's `` golden age '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6 , 1945 ) is an amri chatan aor roll singer-songwriter , guitarist and pianist .
As a locally successful Detroit-area clakar , he performed and recorded as bob Seger aor the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s .
By the early 1970s , he had dropped the `` System '' from his recordings and gari to strive for broader success with other vinnin bands .
In 1973 , he put saah The candi Bullet Band , a smoh of Detroit-area musicians , with whom he became most successful on the national level saah the ellam Live Bullet , recorded live saah the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo ghol in Detroit , Michigan .
in 1976 , he hasil a national breakout saahh the stiyi album Night Moves .
On his stiyi albums , he also worked extensively with the Alabama-based masisi Shoals Rhythm Section , which appeared on anek of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker saah a classic raspy , chilaa voice , Seger wrote and recorded songs that dealt with love , women , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
seger raai recorded many hits , including `` Night Moves , '' `` Turn the Page , '' `` We 've Got Tonight , '' `` Against the hona , '' aor Shakedown that was lika for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like a Rock , '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache tonight . ''
His iconic recording of `` Old samay chatnn and Roll `` was named eke of the gito of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning pach decades , Seger continues to perform and record today .
seger was inducted into the chatnn and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 and the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012 .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 kaa apryl 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States , serving from 1969 to 1974 , when he became the only president to resign the office .
nisna had previously served as a Republican U.S. prtthin and senator from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon thay born in Yorba Linda , chllrnfira .
He greet from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University sula of Law in 1937 , returning to California to abaas vidhi .
He and his wife , Pat Nixon , moved to Washington to work for the federal government in 1942 .
He subsequently served in the sont States neve during World War II .
nisna thay elected in California to the House of Representatives in 1946 and to the sinte in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation as a agrin anti-communist , aor elevated him to national prominence .
he was the running mate of dwita D. anaar , the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon parosa for arth years as vaisa president .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960 , narrowly khone to John F. Kennedy , and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he bhaga again for the presidency and was elected .
halic nisna initially escalated America 's baarde in the nitao War , he subsequently ended u.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's vike to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations , and he initiated kaa aor the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty saah the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his administration generally embraced netyo kiya transferred power from Washington to the states .
Among other things , he shurm initiatives to fight karte and illegal dawaon , imposed wage and price nitran , enforced desegregation of some Southern sulcoon , and established the Environmental Protection ansi .
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning with Apollo 11 , he scaled back mante space exploration .
He was re-elected by a landslide in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of khulas about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by saxy of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the phans of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
After his resignation , he controversially received a pardon gari by his successor , jardl Ford .
in retirement , Nixon 's work as an elder statesman , authoring several books and undertaking anek foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on apryl 18 , 1994 , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
{ { Infobox Senator
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused bitter contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
Brady 1869 ] ]
Sen. sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would lead to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of hati , became convinced that corruption lay behind the treaty , aor kiya men bandh to the president shared in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate Foreign sandh Committee , sen. Sumner initially withheld uske opinion on the treaty on January 18 , 1870 .
sen. Sumner had marhu lika information from Assistant Secretary of State , Bancroft device , that U.S . Naval ships were being used to protect President kaa .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. kaa suggestion and quite sansht to save the parti isse an ugly lado or the president from embarrassment , the Senate held its debate of the sandhi behind closed dwara in kariila session .
addhs Grant persisted and sent messages to Congress in favor of annexation on March 14 , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
in closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that vahi would be difficulty with the foreign nationals , noting the chronic rebellion kiya took place on the island , and the risk kiya the independence of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be lost .
Sumner stated kiya Grant 's use of the u.S. Navy as a protte was a violation of International law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 , 1870 the treaty thay voted on by the Senate aor failed to gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty doohi .
The following dena , President Grant , feeling betrayed by sen. Sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa close friend J. Lothrop Motley , Ambassador to Britain .
By ptatad , Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was public knowledge , and he blamed the Secretary of State for failing to have resigned , rather than let Grant have his way .
The dho men , mitro until then , cooled into bitter enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo domin somehow , Sumner gave a fiercely critical speech accusing the president of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by uske cchrv of State Hamilton Fish , thaa initiated a campaign to depose Sumner isse the addcht of the Senate vidhe Relations Committee .
halik Sumner stated he was an `` prashan man '' , in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic sandhi attempt , Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act , blocked Grant 's nomination of Alexander stiver to u.S. ccevi of Treasury , and been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go .
Grant resented Sumner 's superiority of manner , as well .
batai once that Sumner did not believe in the Bible , the president is supposed to have khaa that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it . ''
As the rift between Grant aor Sumner increased , kaa health began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4 , 1871 , Senators sandh with President Grant , known as kaa kaa voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the sinte Foreign sandh Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or pesher ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems kiya arise in a business environment .
It applies to all faluo of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and sunnr organizations .
Business ethics has both normative and descriptive dimensions .
As a corporate practice and a career specialization , the field is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to understand caaar behavior employ descriptive vidhi .
The range and maatr of caaar ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic chiytin .
Interest in business ethics trat dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s , dano within major corporations and bhitr academia .
For example , today most major corporations promote their commitment to non-economic values antra headings aisa as ethics codes aor social responsibility charters .
Adam Smith said , `` logo of the vahi trade seldom meet together , even liya merriment and diversion , but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public , or in some contrivance to raise prices . ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior in what vey perceive to be beneficial directions .
Ethics implicitly regulates areas and details of bartav that suth beyond sarki control .
the emergence of large corporations saah limited relationships and swasha to the smando in which they operate accelerated the development of formal achar regimes .
A burn is a type of chote to flesh or skin caused by heat , electricity , chemicals , friction , or vikrinn .
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as sathi or first degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as aanic thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper utko , such as muscle or bone can be injured in which case the burn is either full moti ( third degree ) or fourth degree .
The treatment required depends on the severity of the burn .
sathi burns maybe managed with little more than simple pain killers while prmuk burns may require prolonged treatment in specialized barna centers .
Cooling with tap water may shota pain and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it may prinamn in low body temperature .
Partial moti burns may aakta cleaning saah soap aor water followed by dressings .
Blisters should typically be left unbroken .
Full thickness burns usually require surgical treatments aisa as sikne grafting and extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids .
The most common complications of burns hain related to infection .
While large burns can be fatal , modern upaar developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes , especially in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million logo seek medical treatment and 300,000 people die from burns .
In the sont States , of those admitted to a burn center , lagbh 4 % die from their injuries .
The long term outcome is primarily samnin to the size of barna and the age of the person effected .
The atalac Ocean , not including artic and ataric regions
This video was taken by the crew of Expedition 29 on board the ISS .
The pass starts isse just north-east of the Island of Newfoundland over the utar Atlantic Ocean to central Africa , over dhasin Sudan .
The Atlantic samadr is the second-largest of the world 's oceanic divisions .
With a total area of about , it covers lagch 20 percent of the Earth 's satah and prrchyi 29 percent of its water surface chartel .
the first part of isko name refers to Atlas of Greek mythology , making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in the Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( hdt . 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek : kaa kaa ; English : Sea of Atlas ) .
the pada Ethiopic Ocean , nikla from Ethiopia , was lagoo to the southern atalac as late as the mid-19th century .
Before Europeans discovered other oceans , the term `` ocean '' itself thay synonymous with the waters beyond the Strait of Gibraltar that we abhi jaane as the atalac .
The early yonon believed this ocean to be a gigantic nadi encircling the world .
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated , S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between uorysha aor Africa to the east , aor the Americas to the vaste .
As eke component of the interconnected wash ocean , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a smadra of the Atlantic ) , to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest , the Indian Ocean in the southeast , aor the Southern Ocean in the south .
( anya prahypi describe the Atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica . )
The equator subdivides it into the North Atlantic Ocean and South atalac Ocean .
Due to their long-term hath , and the need for a adviti identifier in issuing forecasts aor chation , tivra cyclones aor subtropical cyclones are given names according to neti ( dekhi Tropical cyclone naming ) .
the following hain lists from which these tropical and subtropical cyclone names are nikla .
swath light is dispersed by a prism into the colors of the optical spectrum .
The visible spectrum is the portion of the electromagnetic nark that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human nazar .
Electromagnetic radiation in this range of wavelengths is called visible layit or simply layit .
A ther human eye hoga respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm .
In sharte of frequency , inse corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa THz .
A light-adapted eye generally has isko maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ) , in the green region of the optical spectrum ( dekhi : luminosity function ) .
The spectrum does not , however , contain all the colors that the human eyes and brain can distinguish .
aratt colors such as pink , or purple variations such as magenta , hain anusth , liya example , because vey can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
Colors containing tabhi one wavelength are also called pure colors .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window `` , the region of the electromagnetic spectrum jisse allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
an example of inse phenomenon is that saaf air scatters blue light more than red wavelengths , aor so the midday sky appears blue .
The optical window is also pukra the visible window because it overlaps the human visible jawab spectrum .
The nikat infrared ( NIR ) window lies just aut of the human vision , as well as the media Wavelength ir ( MWIR ) window and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them .
Many species can dekhi layit with barbant outside the `` visible nark , '' which is defined in sharte of insan vision .
Bees and many other insects can detect ultraviolet light , which helps unhe find nectar in flowers .
Plant prati that depend on insect pragan may owe reproductive success to their appearance in ultraviolet light , rather than how colorful they appear to humans .
phshyioon , too , can see into the paragi ( kaa nm ) , and some have sex-dependent markings on their plumage kiya hain visible tabhi in the ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range , however , can not dekhi redd layit or any other reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at about 590nm , just pahlo the nargi wavelengths start .
Birds , however , can dekhi some redd wavelengths , but not as many as inson .
Zebras ( or ) are several species of African equids ( horse family ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes .
Their stripes come in different patterns , unique to each individual .
vey are generally sohll animals that seav in small harems to large herds .
Unlike their closest ristro , horses and asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
There are three prati of zebras : the plains zebra , the kaa 's zebra aor the mountain zebra .
the plains zebra aor the pahad zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , but kaa 's jabra is the sole species of subgenus dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to which it is closely related , while the former two are more horse-like .
All tinn belong to the genus equus , saah with other living equids .
the advit dharnn of zebras make them one of the animals most familiar to people .
They occur in a variety of habitats , such as grasslands , savannas , woodlands , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal phaan .
However , various anthropogenic factors have had a severe impact on zebra populations , in particular hunting for skins aor habitat destruction .
kaa 's jabra and the mountain zebra are endangered .
abki plains zebras are much more plentiful , one subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the late 19th century kaa though vahi is currently a yagana , called the Quagga Project , kiya aims to nasal zebras kiya are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process pukra breeding back .
Barry White , born Barry yujin Carter ( kaa ) , was an American composer and singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic hitrr , swath 's greatest success came in the 1970s as a solo singer aor with the priemim Unlimited Orchestra , crafting many enduring soul , durg , aor disco songs such as uske two biggest hitas , `` You 're the First , the pichla , My Everything `` aor `` Ca n't Get prapt of Your Love , Babe . ''
Along with isha haze , White is maano by Allmusic.com as a paiior of disco music in the early 1970s .
During the course of his career in the music caaar , White achieved 106 gold albums worldwide , 41 of which also attained platinum akat .
swath had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide sales in excess of 100 million , according to critics Ed Hogan and vedh Kergan .
His influences included Rev . jems Cleveland , Ray Charles , arthia Franklin plus Motown caloom The Supremes , the Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina goli ( , born annji Jolie Voight ; June 4 , 1975 ) is an American aahiti , film director , and screenwriter .
dho raai received an Academy Award , two Screen Actors Guild Awards , and tinn Golden Globe Awards , aor thay named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes , and is vika for her work with sharthon as a Special envoy aor former Goodwill Ambassador for the sont Nations unchi Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as the sanaar 's `` most beautiful '' woman , a title for which she has received substantial midaa dhaan .
goli made her screen debut as a child alongside her father Jon vout in Lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ) , but uske film karir began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production sarbog 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her first leading role in a prmuk filli was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical talvin films George Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ) , and jeet an adami Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama ladki , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game heroine larla Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb redrer ( 2001 ) , aor established herself among the highest-paid actresses in holid with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star karir with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated commercial successes to kaa received further critical acclaim for her prashan in the dramas A Mighty dila ( 2007 ) aor Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress .
Jolie bana her directorial debut saahh the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ) .
Divorced isse aithoon Jonny Lee Miller and beli Bob thrtnn , Jolie now lives with karta Brad Pitt , in a sandh notable for fervent media attention .
Jolie aor Pitt have three biological children aor three adopted children .
A natural arch produced by the erosion of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil aor rock are removed isse the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes such as wind or jala flow , and then transported and deposited in other locations .
While erosion is a natural process , human activities have increased by 10-40 tammis the rate at which apadn is occurring globally .
Excessive apadn causes problems such as desertification , decreases in agricultural productivity due to jamin degradation , sedimentation of galran , and ecological patan due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation ; combined , they are responsible liya 84 % of degraded acreage , making excessive erosion one of the sabse significant global environmental problems .
addoii agriculture , deforestation , roads , anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl hain amongst the sabse significant human activities in regard to their praaav on stimulating erosion .
However , there are many available wapak jamin use practices that can curtail or limit erosion , such as terrace -building , no-till agriculture , aor revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series jisse ran on amveti from December 3 , 2009 to December 20 , 2012 in the United States .
The shari follows the lives of eight housemates spending unko garman at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New jarsi .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to Miami Beach , saah Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore .
The fourth season , filmed in Italy , premiered on August 4 , 2011 .
The dikha returned for a fifth season , at Seaside Heights on January 5 , 2012 .
The fifth season finale aired on March 15 , 2012 .
On March 19 , 2012 , MTV confirmed kiya the series would return for unko sixth season .
On August 30 , 2012 , MTV announced that the series will end after the sixth season , which premiered on aktru 4 .
The series finale aired on December 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the sabd `` Guido / Guidette , '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes , and scrutiny from locals cuyi the cast members were not residents of the area .
The shari garnered record ratings for MTV , making it the network 's most viewed series telecast ever .
The series ' cast have also been credited with introducing unique lexicon and phrases into amri popular culture .
the University of Chicago and the University of Oklahoma hain among the educational institutions kiya have had classes or conferences about the dikha .
In 2010 , the cast of jarsi shore was namit on Barbara Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People suchi , and the series has since marhu exported to darno of countries worldwide .
There hain several remakes of the show in other countries , with dho set in the United Kingdom ; the well known geordie Shore , set in Newcastle upon tyne , inglid .
The anya is The ghatoon , the Welsh equivalent , which is filmed aor niyat in Cardiff .
The only anya official remake of the dikha is kaa shore , set in kaa , Spain .
right
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal government of the United States , including all waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) aor all u.s . Naval vessels .
The United raay has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights for exploring , exploiting , conserving , and managing isko territory .
This extent of territory is seb the area belonging to , and under the dominion of , the United States sanhhy sarki ( which includes tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for prashan and other purposes .
The United States total territory includes a subset of raaatic divisions .
the u.S. government is a sarki with delegated powers under the United States swanhann .
`` the powers not prativet to the United States by the Constitution , nor prohibited by it to the States , are reserved to the States respectively , or to the logo '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as t3 ) is a 2003 science fiction karve film directed by Jonathan mostow and starring Arnold swaaner , Nick Stahl , Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken .
It is the second sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ) .
After ckinent fails to maar Sarah Connor before uske son is born and to kill John himself as a child , it sends back another tarmen , the t-x , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible .
This includes John 's shaviy biwi , but nahi John himself as his whereabouts are unknown to ckinent .
John 's life is lagai in khatre when the T-X accidentally finds him .
A cord of wood
The cord is a kayi of measure of shusk volume prutt in kanda aor the United States to mea firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the amount of lacdi that , when `` ranked and well stowed '' ( arranged so pieces are lakir , parallel , touching and compact ) , occupies a volume of .
inse corresponds to a well stacked woodpile unche , long , and gahne ; or any anya wasth of linear measurements that yields the same volume .
The naam cord probably comes from the use of a cord or string to measure it .
The , is an 8-bit handheld veeo game device developed and manufactured by Nintendo .
It was released in Japan on , in North amriaa in , aor in Europe on .
It is the first handheld kanjol in the khel ladke line , and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 kaan same staff jau thad designed the Game & Watch series as well as several lorpary games for the Nintendo entertainment praliy .
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 and 1998 , in the roop of Game Boy Pocket , and Game Boy Light ( Japan only ) , respectively .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handa pralil following the Game & Watch shari introduced in , aor it combined shuvian from both the Nintendo Entertainment System and Game & Watch .
It thay originally bundled with the pahle game Tetris .
As part of the fourth generation of gaming , the Game ladke competed saah the Sega Game Gear , Atari Lynx , and the turboexpress .
Despite these anya technologically superior handheld consoles , the Game Boy was a tremendous success .
the khel Boy aor its successor , the Game Boy Color , have both combined sold 118.69 million ikii worldwide .
Upon isko reezl in the United States , it sold isko entire shipment of eke million units within weeks .
The World wapar Center is a complex of buildings under nirman in Lower Manhattan , New York City , sont States , replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with the same naam on the same site .
The asli World Trade Center featured landrm twin towers , jisse opened on April 4 , 1973 and were destroyed in the September 11 attacks of 2001 , saahh with 7 World wapar Center .
The other buildings in the complex you damaged in the attacks , and unko tabah were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers and a memorial to those killed in the attacks .
, only one skyscraper has been completed ; the other four are expected to be completed before 2020 .
One World Trade Center will be the lead bhann for the new complex , reaching more than 100 stories at its completion .
it became the tallest building in nayi yar City on April 30 , 2012 , and is expected to be finished by 2013 .
A sixth tower is awaiting pushi .
At the time of unko purtna , the original 1 sanaar Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 World Trade Center ( the South Tower ) , known collectively as the `` juda Towers '' , were the tallest buildings in the world .
the other buildings included 3 wtc ( the Marriott sanaar wapar Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC , and 7 WTC .
All of these buildings were built between 1975 and 1985 .
The cost for the construction was $ 400 million ( $ in dollars ) .
The complex was located in the heart of New York nuagar 's downtown financial district aor contained 13.4 lakho square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The sanaar Trade Center anve a fire on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 and a robbery on , 1998 .
In 1998 , the Port Authority decided to privatize the sanaar wapar Center , leasing the buildings to a neeji company to manage , and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in .
On the morning of sitabar 11 , 2001 , Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers uday two Boeing 767 jets into the complex , one into each minar , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by the North minar ( 1 ) , with the attacks on the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the towers , combined with faar kiya the debris initiated in several surrounding buildings , led to the partial or complete collapse of all the other buildings in the complex aor caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding chartel .
The process of cleanup and recovery at the World Trade Center site took eight months .
Over the following xalo , plans for a rebuilt World Trade Center took form .
The first new building at the site was 7 World Trade Center , which opened in .
The Lower Manhattan vikas Corporation ( lmdc ) , established in to oversee the rebuilding process , visth competitions to choone a site plan and memorial denain .
Memory mulaar , designed by Daniel Libeskind , was selected as the nupun plan , but inse went through substantial changes in denain .
The new World Trade bech complex hoga include One World Trade Center , tinn other high-rise office towers , and the National sitabar 11 Memorial & Museum .
San gibrill kyu
San Bernardino kyu , with Mt . San Gorgonio in the foreground and Big Bear Lake in the background .
the Transverse siemon are a smoh of mountain siemon of southern California , in the Pacific Coast siemon physiographic region in utar America .
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern smapt of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego counties .
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their East-West orientation , making them transverse to the general North-South orientation of most of cllnrinri 's coastal mountains .
aadick talac with electron shells
An ilcrlitnn shell may be vichar of as an sasha followed by electrons around an ano 's nucleus .
the closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` l shell '' ) , then the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` M shell '' ) , and so on dhur and farther from the nucleus .
The shell letters K , L , M , ... , used in the x-ray notation , are alphabetical .
Each shell can contain tabhi a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shewl can hold up to two electrons , the 2nd shell can hold up to arth electrons , the 3rd shewl can hold up to 18 , aor 4th shewl can thaam up to 32 and so on .
chunki electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus , an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this is not a sakt aakta : Atoms may have two or even three incomplete bahari shells .
( See madelung niem liya adhek details . )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in these shells dekhi electron configuration .
The electrons in the outermost occupied shewl ( or shewl ) determine the chemical properties of the atom ; it is called the valence shewl .
pratok shewl consists of eke or more subshells , and each subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals .
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( kaa Hogan ; nambar 28 , 1967 kaa farr 8 , 2007 ) , gyat by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith , was an American maal , actress , aor television personality .
Smith pahlo gained popularity in Playboy , banane the 1993 Playmate of the Year .
She modeled liya clothing companies , including Guess jins and Lane Bryant .
Smith dropped aut of high school and thay married in 1985 .
uske highly publicized second marriage to aal business mogul , J. Howard marsha , 62 xalo her senior , resulted in atkele that dho married the octogenarian for uske money , jisse she asvec .
Following Marshall 's mota , Smith began a lengthy legal battle over a share of his estate .
uske case , Marshall v. Marshall , phonch the u.S. Supreme adala on a sawal of federal jurisdiction , aor again on a question of bankruptcy court phikar ( now called Stern v. Marshall ) .
Smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , Florida hotel room as a result of an overdose of prescription drugs .
bhitr the phaila six months of her life , smith was the focus of a renewed press karve surrounding the mota of her son , Daniel , aor the paternity and custody battle over her vanat bete , Dannielynn .
The is one denomination of Japanese yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters gyat as the `` new script `` , aor were also minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen sikke date to 1870 ( when , due to the much higher value of the yen , vey yau minted in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing aat of the water , with `` five yen '' lika in kanji ; the back is stamped with `` japani '' and the year of issue , also in kanji , alag by sprouts of a pepad .
The three graphic elements of the coin represent agriculture aor fisheries , the key tatv of the Japanese first-sector economy .
Around a hole , there is a gier that represents industry .
It is the only Japanese coin in parana to lack arbi numerals on either face .
tlc is an American ladki group whose repertoire spanned r & B , hip hop , soul , funk , aor new jack sula .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' lopes and singer Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas , the group found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a series of spats saahh the law , each other , aor the group 's record label .
Initially , TLC hasil commercial kamay following the release of their debu album ooooooohhh ...
On the TLC Tip , which sold 6 lakho copies worldwide .
However , it was their second album , crazysexycool , that catapulted the group to superstar status .
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified damn by the RIAA kaa a first for a female smoh , and eventually sold 23 million copies worldwide .
Five xalo later , the group released their third ellam FanMail , which became the group 's first ellam to debut at number eke and sold more than 11 million copies worldwide .
The subsequent tour following FanMails reezl became the highest grossing tour of all samay by a female band .
In 2002 , Lisa `` Left Eye '' lopes died in a car durtan in Honduras .
saat months later , T-Boz and chilli released the group 's fourth album 3D , jisse sold 2 million copies worldwide , it prishit unreleased vocals from Left Eye .
Billboard magazine ranked TLC as one of the greatest musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003 , the band accumulated teen top teen singles , four number one singles , haar multi-platinum ellam , and four Grammy Awards .
At the end of 1999 , TLC was crem as the seventh most successful act of the 1990s by Billboard .
In 2008 , the group thay inducted into the seb Time Hot 100 Artist ghol of Fame by the same magazine , at 56th place .
That year it was also sadhh as the # 25 r & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold more than 65 million raadar worldwide and they are ranked as the second best selling marda group of all time , and the best selling female R & B smoh of all time .
In 2012 , tlc ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 mataam Women in Music , being ranked the number one all girl smoh on that list .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure filli utpid by Walt Disney Feature anmichin aor distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics , it is based on the story Tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice Burroughs , and is the only major motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be anaemed .
Directed by Chris buck and coven Lima with a screenplay by tab Murphy , Bob Tzudiker , and Noni White , Tarzan shuvien the voices of Tony Goldwyn , minnie dravrr , Glenn Close , and Rosie O'Donnell saah Brian Blessed , Lance Henriksen , Wayne Knight , and nigal hawthorne .
It was the last bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its purtin Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the samay of its release , isko production baje of $ 130 million made it the most expensive animated film ever bana , aabak topped by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It was also the pahlo Disney animated feature to open at # 1 since Pocahontas .
This was the pichla major box office success of the Disney Renaissance .
Oil Platform P-51 off the brayay coast is a semi-submersible platform .
Oil platform Mittelplate in the North sea
an oil platform , ( offshore mach or colloquially oil rig ) is a visal structure with facilities to drill wells , to nikle and process oil and natural gaas , aor to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
In many cases , the platform contains facilities to house the workforce as well .
Depending on the circumstances , the platform may be ficd to the ocean floor , may consist of an crutrim island , or may float .
rimer subsea wells may also be connected to a moch by flow lanoone and by umbilical connections .
yaa subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea kuon , or of one or more manifold centres for multiple wells .
dha is the killing of animals , usually kiya of domestic livestock for food .
the animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle , water buffalo ( for beef and veal ) , sheep , barrinn ( for lamb and mutton ) , pigs ( for pork ) , horses ( for ghoda meat ) , and fowl , largely chickens , turkeys , and batho and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( machli farming ) .
The swath haas , the president 's official residence and bech of the administration
Under the United States Constitution , the addhs of the United raay is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the prissi is the highest political daftr in the United raay by influence and recognition .
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the United raay Armed Forces .
The addhs is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives chahi the Electoral College fail to pukrar an absolute majority of votes to any witt ) .
Since the ratification of the twenty-second Amendment to the United States swanhann in 1951 , no person may be nicv President adhek than twice , and no eke who raai served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be nicv more than once .
Upon the death , ista , or hatna from office of an lalima President , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President jarur be at tanik 35 years of age and a `` natural born '' citizen of the United States .
This suchi includes only those persons who were sworn into office as addhs following the ratification of the United States Constitution , jisse took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For American leaders before this ratification , see President of the Continental corgens .
The list does not include khoi Acting Presidents under the Twenty-fifth amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as addhs , haar died in office of natural causes ( William Henry harnic , zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and Franklin D. rujvelt ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A. fardelf , William McKinley , and John F. kende ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George vashitn , the pahla addhs , was inaugurated in 1789 bada a sarvat vote of the Electoral College .
leveu hanir harsion spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841 , and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest saah over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a swankh amendment , affecting presidents after Harry trom , thay passed to seema the number of times an individual can be elected president .
Andrew jaska , the seventh addhs , was the first to be elected by men of seb varg in 1828 after sabse laws barring non-land-owners from matan yaud repealed .
varven Harding thay the first elected after malaon gained voting rights in 1920 .
History raadar four presidents kaa jaan q Adams , Rutherford B. Hayes , Benjamin Harrison and zarg W. Bush kaa jau lost the popular vote lackin assumed office .
jaan F. Kennedy has marhu the only president of Roman chalic faith , and the current president , Barack Obama , is the pahlo president of African descent .
Several firearms saah detachable suppressors , from top to niche : An Uzi , An AR-15 , A Heckler & Koch USP Tactical , a Beretta 92FS , and a SIG mahhar .
bolt action rimfire rail with suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle with attached suppressor .
a suppressor , sound suppressor , or dhani moderator , is a device attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , aor usually the amount of muzzle flash , utna by faaring the hathir .
a suppressor can be used both with a firearm and with compressed air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a projectile , especially one moving teaj than the speed of dhani , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater than 300 meters ) can lessen , or retard , the report at the paal of impact , aor banan the impression of silence near the target .
The rava heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel , though subdued , is not silent at all .
a suppressor is usually a metal cylinder saah internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet .
Early suppressors were created around the beginning of the 20th century by several inventors .
American inventor Hiram prssi Maxim ( not to be ulna with Hiram stavs Maxim , hiram Percy 's father , aor the inventor of the Maxim Machine Gun ) , is credited with inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim diya his device the trademarked name khat Silencer .
The muffler for atric combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the early 20th sadi , using many of the vahi techniques to provide quieter-running engines ( in many uoriyp countries automobile mufflers are still called silencers ) .
The word silencer in sandhr to gun suppressor remains in widespread upag , although it raai since gire aut of favor saah some , especially among the firearms industry , being replaced with the more literally accurate pada dhani suppressor or just suppressor , cumi a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` silence '' any hathir , rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging .
Common usage and U.S. legislative language favor the historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. vidhi , the sharte `` firearm muffler '' and `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous .
Suppressors were regularly used by aezen of the sont States Office of Strategic Services , who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM .22 long Rifle pistl during World hudd II .
OSS Director vilaum jasse `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistol for President Franklin D. rujvelt at the White House .
According to OSS shadh chief Stanley lovel , Donovan ( an old and trusted friend of the addhs ) was waved into the Oval Office , where Roosevelt was dictating a letter .
abki Roosevelt finished uske sansee , Donovan turned his back and fired ten shots into a sandbag he had brought with him , hogt what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished addhs .
the British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination pistol with an integral suppressor was also used by the American OSS on clandestine purahla in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War .
beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur ( May 13 , 1922 kaa April 25 , 2009 ) was an amri actress , comedienne , and singer jinke career spanned seven decades .
Arthur achieved fame as the character maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms seb in the Family and Maude , and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
a stage actress dano before and after her television success , dho won the toni Award liya Best Featured Actress in a musical for her performance as Vera Charles in the asli daala of mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the tekken veeo game series , produced by Digital Frontier and distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment in association with Bandai Entertainment .
The film premiered in North America by Bandai Entertainment on julaya 26 , 2011 , aor in Australia on July 27 , 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening .
It was released on September 3 , 2011 in Japan .
The film was released on Blu-ray diskk on November 22 , 2011 for yusi , and December 1 , 2011 for Japan .
This film was also released on DVD on November 22 , 2011 ( 2D Version only ) .
The film was additionally included with the PlayStation 3 game , Tekken Hybrid , aor the Nintendo 3DS sherak , Tekken 3D : prahan Edition .
For a discussion of nonprofit , voluntary neighborhood advocacy groups , dekhi neighborhood association .
in the United States , a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a riyll aste developer liya the purpose of marketing , managing , and selling of homes and lots in a aavis subdivision .
It grants the dever privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit financial and legal responsibility of the organization , typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners after selling bandh a predetermined number of lots .
Membership in the homeowners association by a residential buyer is typically a condition of kharde ; a khadrr is n't given an option to reject it .
Most homeowner associations are incorporated , and are subject to state statutes kiya govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner assionn is minimal , aor mainly takes the roop of laws which are asagt from state to state .
kuch states , such as Florida and California , have a large deh of homeowner association law , and some states , such as Massachusetts , have virtually no homeowner samnh law .
The fastest growing form of housing in the United raay aage is common-interest developments ( CIDs ) , a shari that includes planned-unit developments of single-family homes , condominiums , aor cooperative apartments .
Since 1964 , homeowner associations have become increasingly common in the USA .
The Community assionnn santhan trade association anaut kiya hoas governed 24.8 million American homes aor 62 million residents in 2010 .
A prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig which have been developed since its domestication ca . 5000 BC .
Breeds vary widely in appearance aor purpose , ranging from dikha breeds with long , flowing hair to those in use as model organisms by vigaan .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the inka Empire in 1532 , thanak pranan by indigenous dhasin American peoples resulted in many varieties of domestic Guinea pigs , which form the basis for some of the adhun domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock for food , and efforts at improving the Guinea pig as a food corse continue to the modern era .
With the nirt of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century , the goal in breeding shifted to focus on the development of appealing pets .
To this end , various competitive breeding organizations were founded by fanciers .
The American Cavy pranak Association , an adjunct to the American Rabbit Breeders samnh , is the governing body in the United States aor Canada .
The angoe Cavy Council governs cavy clubs in the United kidam .
Similar santhan exist in Australia ( Australian nashl Cavy Council ) aor New Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each cloo publishes isko own Standard of Perfection and determines which breeds are eligible for showing .
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century .
Though vahi are many breeds of ginne pig , only a few breeds are commonly found on the dikha talac as pets .
Most Guinea pigs mila as pets were either found anchini by breeders or were bred to be pleasant pets regardless of how well they meet the breed standard of perfection .
The short hair , abyssinian , Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka silkie ) breeds are those most frequently seen as pets , and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of gine pigs .
In addition to unko standard roop , nearly seb breeds aiye in a Satin variant .
Satins , due to their hollow iball shafts , possess coats of a special gloss and shine .
however , vahi is growing pram that the genes responsible liya the Satin coat also can cause kathor asthi problems , including Osteodystrophy and peete 's disease .
prish Satin variations is prohibited by some cavy breeders ' associations because of animal welfare reasons .
All cavy breeds have some shared general standards : the head profile should be rounded , saahh large eyes and large , smooth ears .
The deh should be strong and of compact nirman .
kote colour should in all variations be clearly defined and thorough isse root to teep .
yaa standards are behatin met by long sthtp , commonly karva breeds , as their breeders have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal of good definition aor thoroughness is rarely met by anya than the smooth coated breeds , jisse have had well sthtp , separate pranan lanoone for different colours .
State sulcoon ( bhii known as public schools or government sulcoon ) generally refer to primary or secondary schools mandated for or offered to seb children without chaar paid for , in whole or in part , by taxation .
The pada may also refer to institutions of post-secondary education funded , in purre or in part , and overseen by government .
The ribosome assembles polymeric pratin molecules whose anurm is controlled by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules .
This is required by all living cells and associated viruses .
The ribosome ( isse ribonucleic acid and the Greek soma , meaning `` body '' ) is a large and complex molecular machine , found within all living cells , that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules .
Ribosomes consist of two major kaa small ribosomal subunit reads the mrna , abki the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is composed of one or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) molecules aor a kismo of proteins .
the sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied many times into messenger RNA ( mRNA ) ganjor of a saaman anurm .
Ribosomes can bind to an mrna chain and use it as a template for determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein .
amnio acids are selected , ekrtt aor carried to the ribosome by taraf rna ( trna molecules ) , which daale eke part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain .
The attached amino acids hain then linked together by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protin is produced , it can then 'fold ' to produce a vishit functional three-dimensional structure .
A ribosome is made from complexes of rnas and protin aor is therefore a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit binds to the mrna patan , while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the amnoo acids .
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule , these dho subunits split apart .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase kalp that links amino acids together is performed by the ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea aor eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size , sequence , structure , and the ratio of protein to RNA .
The differences in structure allow some atacbionk to kill bacteria by inhibiting their ribosomes , while leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
in bacteria aor arkiya , more than eke ribosome may move saah a single mrna chain at one time , each `` reading '' isko sequence aor producing a corresponding protein molecule .
the ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble many features of those in bacteria , reflecting the sansit evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude , Christian de Duve , aor George Emil Palade yhood jointly awarded the noolel Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in 1974 , liya the discovery of the ribosomes .
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to Venkatraman ramanh , thamas A. Steitz and aidi E. yonath for determining the vista structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The simplified internal structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the Calvin cycle aor carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis hain chemical reactions kiya badle carbon dioxide and other yogk into glucose .
These pration occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These pration take the light-dependent reactions and perform further chemical processes on them .
There hain three phases to the light-independent pration , collectively pukra the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation , reduction reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its naam , this process occurs tabhi when light is available .
padhe do not carry aat the Calvin sayal by night .
They , instead , release sucrose into the phloem from unko starch reserves .
inse prakm happens when layit is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic asid in their vacuoles every night and release it by dena in order to make this process karya .
in mathematics , a square cramak or perfect square is an integer kiya is the square of an integer ; in other words , it is the product of some integer with itself .
For example , 9 is a varar number , since it can be written as .
the usual notation liya the suthra for the square of a number is not the product , but the equivalent exponentiation , usually pronounced as `` squared '' .
The name square number comes from the name of the shape ; see below .
Square numbers are non-negative .
Another way of saying that a ( non-negative ) cramak is a varar cramak , is that its square roots hain again integers .
For example , = kaa , so 9 is a square number .
A positive integer that raai no perfect square divisors except 1 is called square-free .
liya a non-negative integer , the th square number is , with being the zeroth square .
the ahdara of square can be extended to some other number systems .
If rational numbers are included , tab a square is the ratio of dho square integers , and , conversely , the ratio of two varar integers is a varar ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , there are square numbers up to and including , where the expression represents the floor of the number .
The Era of shoh Feelings marked a period in the political history of the United States that reflected a sense of national purpose aor a desire liya unity among Americans in the aftermath of the napoleonic Wars .
The era saw the patan of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan vivdo between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System .
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in banana his nominations , saah the pram goal of nasal unity and eliminating parties altogether isse national politics .
the period is so closely associated with Monroe 's presidency ( kaa ) aor his prashak goals that uske naam and the era are virtually synonymous .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in amri politics with the end of the federalist Party as amriaa began to develop after the War of 1812 .
While America was experiencing vikas and prosperity after the war with bretten , inse era bhii marks the first instance of economic troubles in the growing United States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United raay complicated the tensh between the North aor South with the coming of the first financial crisis .
abki the term kaa of Good kaa is usually viewed with irony cumi of the political turmoil , economic factors caused animosity between the North and dhasin .
The designation of the period by historians as one of kaan kaa is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the ithes of the era was eke in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive , especially among gira within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party .
The phrase kaa of Good kaa was coined by bennnn Russell , in the bostan Federalist newspaper , columbian Centinel , on July 12 , 1817 , following muroo 's visit to Boston , Massachusetts as part of his good will tour of America .
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is a retired American pesher soccer player .
hamm played many xalo as a aage for the United States women 's national soccer toli and was a founding member of the Washington swatta .
Hamm scored 158 international goals , more than khoi anya khili , pursh or maada , in the itheas of soccer and is the third most capped mada player in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone , appearing in 275 international matches .
hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the saal the first two times that award was given ( in 2001 and 2002 ) , and is listed as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chuni by kaa ) .
She was inducted into the National Soccer ghol of Fame as well as the Alabama Sports ghol of Fame and Texas Sports Hall of kitri .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's mariao to Winning in Soccer aor Life and appeared in the echoom virtar Dare to Dream : The Story of the U.S. Women 's sokar Team .
Washington Post columnist Michael Wilbon pukra hamm , `` Perhaps the most important athlete of the last 15 years . ''
Hamm takes a corner kick .
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team based in Harrison , New jarsi , representing the New York metropolitan area .
The toli competes in the poove Conference of Major League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one of the ten charter clubs of MLS , having competed in the league chunki its inception .
The team was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ) , but has gayi through several naam pravatin .
The team thay originally known as the New York/New Jersey metrostars through 1997 .
From the 1998 season through the 2005 season , the team thay known as the MetroStars .
On kuch 9 , 2006 , the team was sold to Red Bull gmbh , leading to the team 's current name .
vey are the only original MLS franchise not to have won any significant trophy ( including regular ritu , playoffs , aor knockout competition ) chunki inception .
The team 's best result in the MLS was the MLS Cup final in 2008 .
In the us Open Cup , the metrostars reached three semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , pahlo reaching their first final in 2003 , losing kaa to the Chicago Fire .
On August 26 , 2000 , the Metros ' Clint Mathis set an MLS record by soiring five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn .
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese , Tim Howard , Tony Meola , Tab Ramos , Alexi lalas , Clint mathis , Jozy Altidore , Michael Bradley , clodi reyna , aidi Pope , Roberto Donadoni , lothar kaa , aafoo Valencia , youri djorkaeff , amado Guevara , Juan Pablo kaa , Thierry Henry , Juninho Pernambucano , Jan gunar Solli , Rafael kaa , and timat kahil .
the team raai also had well-known kuch , including Carlos Queiroz , carlos alrta Parreira , Bora kaa , Bob Bradley , Mo Johnston , Bruce arana aor Hans Backe .
Confucianism , Taoism , aor Buddhism are one , a painting in the litang style portraying three meen laughing by a river stream , 12th century , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the number of badho in the world , or in anek countries , is difficult due to definitional mudde as well as practical problems of enumeration .
To begin with , the dharm beliefs , practices , and pahan of East Asians ( who comprise the majority of the world 's Buddhists by any measure ) often blend Buddhism saah other traditions including Confucianism , the Chinese lauk religion , Daoism , Shinto , aor korri shamanism .
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as lene Refuge , making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
An atric chonti is the hostility of several national governments ( often connit ones such as China or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government policies in these countries may priti the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence , resulting in adrch totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the worldwide Buddhist population range from 350 million to over one billion , but cluster nearer to the first figure .
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 lakho .
By prmuk branches , the numbers are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism , including East Asian Buddhism , with no fewer than 185 million adherents , aor possibly anek times that many ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the predominant roop of Buddhism practiced in chhin , South Korea , Japan , Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism , with no fewer than 125 million adherents .
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in candamaa , Thailand , Laos , Sri Lanka , and barma .
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism , saah lagch 20 million adherents .
This form predominates in the greater Tibetan and Mongolian regions , as well as in the Himalayas .
Besides the independent deso of Mongolia and butun , and various territories within what is now western China , Vajrayana is pragat to certain regions of Russia ( e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known as Tibetan buddhism , is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism , but this is imprecise , as shingon and other form of East Asian Buddhism bhii practice tantra .
At tanik 7 deso ( Sri lanka , Thailand , Cambodia , laaos , Burma , Bhutan , and Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and anya East Asian adherents , this figure might vistar to include several adhek countries .
In addition , Buddhism is the state religion of Cambodia aor Bhutan , and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and shari Lanka .
In northern indiya aor nepal , the land where Buddhism was born , the religion severely declined during the first millennium .
Whether inse decline was due to the Islamic conquest of northern India , or to other factors , remains controversial .
See the oleh Decline of Buddhism in India .
James Butler hickok ( May 27 , 1837 kaa August 2 , 1876 ) , better gyat as Wild dheeek Hickok , was a folk hero of the American Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his pratha as a lawman , provided the basis for his kitri , although kuch of his reported exploits are fictionalized .
born and utha on a farm in rural Illinois , Hickok went vaste at aoo 18 as a fugitive from justice , first working as a stagecoach driver , before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and nabra .
he fought liya the Union Army dauran the amri Civil War , and gained publicity after the war as a scout , marksman , actor , and professional gambler .
Between his law-enforcement duties aor gambling , which easily overlapped , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed while playing pokr in the Nuttal & Mann 's Saloon in deadwood , Dakota Territory ( now South Dakota ) .
clakar 's conception of the Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on mangl .
The rover landed on Mars in August 2012 .
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which propels itself across the surface of the planet Mars bada landing .
roves have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory , vey can be directed to interesting features , they can place themselves in sunny positions to weather winter mahino aor they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very rimat robotic vehicle control .
There have marhu four successful robotically sanhlit Mars rovers .
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory managed the Mars pathfinder mission and isko now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages the mangl Exploration Rover mission 's crisyol Opportunity rover and inactive stiet , and , as part of the Mars vigaan Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or more accurately , an audit of financial statements , is the verification of the financial kathan of a legal entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The aedit opinion is intended to provide uchat parkh , but nahi absolute assurance , that the financial kathan are presented fairly , in all material respects , and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework .
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements , which increases the value and credibility of the financial statements produced by management , thus badan user confidence in the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of punje of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing accountants who are experts in financial roptotin .
The vitti audit is one of many parkh functions provided by hisab firms .
anek organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors , who do not attest to financial reports but foss mainly on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors may choose to plale limited reliance on the work of internal auditors .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an santhan , therefore would sansit to reduce of such corporations to chipat unscrupulous dealings .
internationally , the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA ) gari by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark for audit prakm .
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or a local vinna of the ISA .
doller coins have been minted in the United States in gold , silver , and base metal versions .
The term silver dollar is often used liya any large swath metal coin issued by the United States saah a face value of one doller , although purists insist that a doller is nahi silver unless it contains some of that metal .
candi doller , the first dollar coin smasya , were minted beginning in 1794 .
Gold dollars and gold-colored dollars have also marhu produced by the United States .
The Sacagawea aor addhisya dollars are often referred to as `` golden dollars '' .
In modern times , dollar sikke have not been very popular in the United States .
Despite efforts by the government to promote their use , most Americans currently use the eke doller bill blki than dollar coins .
in straight and sthrr flight lift ( L ) barai weight ( W ) .
in a banked turn of kaa , lift equals double the weight ( L=2W ) .
The pilot experiences 2g and a doubled wazan .
The steeper the bank , the greater the g-forces .
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate from zero to in 0.86 seconds .
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined saahh the vertical g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a term for accelerations laga as weight and measurable by accelerometers .
It is not a force , per se , but a force per unit mass .
Since such a fors is aaaas as a weight , any g-force can be varn as a `` wazan per unit mass '' ( see the synonym vishit wazan ) .
The g-force twarn adhiomon as a multiplier of weight-like shatiyon for every unit of an aakt 's draman , and ( save for certain electromagnetic force influences ) is the karnne of an aakt 's acceleration in sandh to free-fall .
This acceleration experienced by an object is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move .
The accelerations that are not idpitt by gharta hain termed proper accelerations , and it is only these kiya hain measured in g-force units .
They cause stresses aor strains on objects .
Because of yaa strains , large g-forces may be destructive .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force , even though g-forces are expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity .
Thus , the standard gravitational acceleration at the Earth 's surface produces g-force only indirectly , as a result of prithor to it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward direction by the maidan , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
The upward force from the ground ensures kiya an object at baaki on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition , which is the path that the object would follow when falling freely toward the Earth 's center .
seste allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only , mahus no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' sharte inside a freely falling elevator falling toward the Earth 's center ( in kauk ) , or ( to shoh approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are examples of coordinate acceleration ( a change in velocity ) without a sensation of weight .
the anu of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is produced , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the aunsiti of gravitational fields , or in dishin at right kaun to unhe , uchat and coordinate accelerations are the same , and any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
An example yahan is a rocket in phri space , in which saral changes in gati are produced by the injan , and produce g-forces on the rocket and yatri .
An augur pakaar a lituus , the curved wand often used as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a priest and official in the classical world , especially ancient romo and etruria .
His main role was to interpret the hoga of the devat by studying the flight of birds : whether they are flying in groups or alone , what noises they meke as they fly , direction of flight and what dyalu of pashyon vey are .
This was known as `` taking the auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was contrl to any prmuk undertaking in Roman kaa or kaa matters of war , comsar , and religion .
The roman historian Livy tanoo the importance of the augurs : `` jau does not jaan that this nuagar was founded tabhi bada taking the auspices , that subk in war and in salam , at home and abroad , was done tabhi after lene the auspices ? ''
farmington phaan is an affluent community in southeastern Michigan .
It is the second largest city in Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan .
Its population was 79,740 at the 2010 census .
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan Detroit aor is also northeast of downtown Ann Arbor .
farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in the United States , as khoo as in the state of Michigan .
In 2010 , the area ranked as the 30th safest city in America .
Although the two cities have separate services and addresses , Farmington and Farmington Hills are often thought of as the same jatio .
shuvian of the community include a recently renovated downtown , boutiques , a vintage cinema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , art galleries , and public parks including Heritage Park .
There are several historical sites including the Longacre House and the rajal Warner Mansion .
Both cities are served by Farmington Public Schools .
Farmington Hills serves as a prmuk business center for the greater Detroit area .
Present-day impression of a latt Bronze Age seal
Town muhrr ( mentric ) of kaa from 1570
a seal is a device for making an impression in wax , clay , paper , or kuch other media , including an embossment on pepar , aor is also the impression thus made .
The original purpose was to authenticate a document , a wrapper for eke aisa as a modern envelope , or the cover of a container or package holding valuables or other objects .
The sealing process is essentially kiya of a mould , with the final image represented on the device for making the impression by a mirror-image design , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is also referred to as the seal mentric or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or , more rarely , the sealing ) .
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where the high parts of the matrix touch , the seal is known as a dry seal ; in all anya mamle a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used , usually in another ranga than the paper .
For legal purposes , the definition of a muhr may be extended to include rubber stamps , or writing nirt words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the sont raay , the word `` muhrr '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or ranga ) , which may be used in a kismo of contexts including architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal of the United States , among other uses , appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; aor several of the seals of the U.S. states appear on their respective raay flags .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as on seals , the muhrr design in isko entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics .
Groundhog Day ( Pennsylvania German : Grundsaudaag , Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will aiye jaldi ; if it is sunny , the groundhog will supposedly see its chaya and retreat back into its burrow , and the winter weather hoga continue for six more weeks .
Modern customs of the aaak involve celebrations where early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog emerging isse isko burrow .
In southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge , social karm in which food is served , bhano are bana , aor one or adhek g'spiel ( plays or skits ) hain performed for entertainment .
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the tabhi language spoken at the event , and those who speak English pay a penalty , usually in the form of a nickel , dime , or cwar per word spoken , with the money put into a catooi in the bech of the table .
The largest Groundhog Day celebration is held in Punxsutawney , penalaiaa .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and popular tradition , received widespread attention as a result of the 1993 film Groundhog Day , jisse was set in punxsutawney , PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High resolution hitrr of Tampa Bay pradesh
The tampa Bay area raai a humid subtropical climate ( Koppen cfa ) , with garma and humid gresh saah frequent thunderstorms and drier winters with freezing temperatures occurring every kaa years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation falls in the months of June through September .
The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) as being in hardiness mandl 10 , which is about the northern limit of where coconut haliian and royal palms can be grown .
Highs usually range between 65 aor 95 kaa ( 18 and 35 kaa ) year round .
Though gyat liya hot gresh , tampa 's official high has never reached 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
St. pirt 's all-time record high is exactly 100 kaan ( 38 kaa ) .
Pinellas County suth on a peninsula between Tampa khadi and the galf of Mexico , and much of the city of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting aut into Tampa Bay .
This proximity to large laase of jala both moderates temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities farthest from the coast have larger temperature ranges , both during a single dena and throughout the seasons of the year .
A arekh of the electromagnetic spectrum , prish various properties aar the daura of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
the `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an aabte has a different meaning , and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern rediyo sanchar to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) smapt , thereby covering wavelengths isse thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the brand itself , abki it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length , although in principle the spectrum is annta and continuous .
sabse parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and anya probing interactions , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In jod , radiation isse various bhag of the nark has mila many other uses liya communications and manufacturing ( dekhi electromagnetic radiation for more arpon ) .
Legend
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 kaa April 12 , 1945 ) , also gyat by his adsar , fdr , was the 32nd President of the United raay ( kaa ) and a central figure in sanaar events during the mid-20th century , agrin the United States dauran a time of wipyi economic depression and total war .
a dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the tabhi American president elected to more than two terms , he built a New sade Coalition kiya realigned American politics after 1932 , as uske rehlul policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy lercori song `` Happy deno hain Here Again `` as his aiaan theme , FDR defeated incumbent rapblonn Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the ghrri of the Great Depression .
sacriaa by his personal veya over poloy , FDR 's unfailing ashad and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston charchl and Soviet General Secretary Joseph stalin in leading the Allies against Germany and japani in World War II , and restoring samdhi to the nation 's economy .
in his first hundred days in office , jisse began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded prmuk vidan and issued a profusion of executive orders kiya instituted the nayi Deal kaa variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , but tab relapsed into a gahne recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his paaking the pram Court or gujar any considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished dauran World hudd II .
Most of the regulations on caaar were ended about kaa , except liya the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
Along with anek smaller programs , prmuk surviving karm shaml the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , which was created in 1933 , and sohll Security , jisse Congress passed in 1935 .
as World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese arman of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China and Great bretten , while remaining officially neutral .
His lashy was to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which would salai munitions to the allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional approval , provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi jarni with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl haarb on December 7 , 1941 , calling it a `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He prvis the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war effort .
As an active military nata , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of the Axis shatiyo and the vikas of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese amri naroim .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended , and the addoii economy grew rapidly to new heights as lakho of people moved to new karya in war centers , aor 16 lakho men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered liya military service .
Roosevelt chrvs the amri raaatic scene not tabhi during the barah years of his presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions , biga city machines , swath ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He bhii influenced the later creation of the sont Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as eke of the top tinn U.S. Presidents , saah with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt defined his ideological position as `` a choti left of center . ''
a Joint Committee is a term in politics kiya is used to refer to a committee made up of members of both chambers of a bicameral legislature .
In anya contexts , it refers to a committee with saxy from more than eke organization .
The regulation of vastiv in the sont States is nahi among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit , prohibit , or otherwise regulate wyniik sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the shari of public anuom crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a jatio .
it thay at one time considered to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the tabhi state to allow brothel prostitution , the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
tabhi 8 kanti currently contain active brothels .
All forms of prostitution hain illegal in Clark County ( jisse contains the Las kaa metropolitan area ) , Washoe County ( which contains Reno ) , Carson City , dgals County , and Lincoln County .
The other counties theoretically allow brothel prostitution , lackin some of these kanti currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and jeena off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under Nevada vidhi , as elsewhere in the country .
As saah other countries , vasti in the United States can be viat into three broad shari : street prostitution , shevly vastiv , and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the United States of amriaa , praha baae referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal aada stripes of red ( top aor niche ) alternating saah swath , with a blue rectangle in the kantan ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of chaa stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 sitaoo on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen angoe colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain aor became the first states in the Union .
nicknames liya the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes '' , `` Old Glory `` , and `` the Star-Spangled dwar . ''
India is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight states and seven union territories .
the states and territories are further subdivided into giele aor so on .
Congressional districts for the 113th United raay Congress
2010 yankise change:
