a partly submerged glacier cave on Perito Moreno Glacier .
The ice facade is approximately 60 m high
Ice formations in the Titlis glacier cave
A glacier cave is a cave formed within the ice of a glacier .
Glacier caves are often called ice caves , but this term is properly prutt to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an object along the circumference of a circle or rotation along a circular path .
It can be uniform , with constant angular rate of rotation ( and nirtar speed ) , or non-uniform saah a changing rate of rotation .
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional body involves circular motion of its parts .
The equations of motion describe the movement of the center of mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion include : an artificial ugrah orbiting the Earth at constant height , a stone which is tied to a rope and is hona swung in circles , a car turning through a curve in a race track , an electron moving labtv to a uniform magnetic field , and a gear turning inside a mechanism .
Since the object 's gati vector is constantly changing direction , the moving object is undergoing acceleration by a abhirra fors in the direction of the center of rotation .
Without this acceleration , the object would move in a sidha line , according to Newton 's kann of motion .
Apollo Creed is a fictional character from the Rocky films , initially portrayed as the undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the sanaar .
He was played by Carl Weathers .
Creed had multiple nicknames , including The Master of Disaster , The kinning of Sting , The Dancing Destroyer , The Prince of Punch , the One and Only aor The Count of Monte Fisto .
Urban legend states that Apollo Creed 's name is a wordplay on the rulo ' Creed , a statement of belief used in Christian churches .
All of Apollo 's championship fights were scheduled for the 15 galar distance .
champ fights kiya not convert from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , and blue trunks ; Creed was the first man to wear them ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he pahna red aor white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's signature colors were black and kaa he used in the navata movie .
In the United States , the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the sont States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence and some aspects of whose chastar hain beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter , adhiomon of corgens have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; aisa positions include the Chief infas and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because they exercise the nyak power vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. swanhann .
In addition , judges of the Court of International Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the sanhhy courts , including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are bhii sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , and their power garbhi isse aleh I instead .
See Article I aor Article III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by beretta in Italy .
Production began in late 1984 , solely in the Beretta U.S.A. facility in accokeek , Maryland .
It is a further development of the Beretta Model 20 , whose production ended in 1985 .
prativinn Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to VUL ) is a type of life bima that builds a cash value .
In a VUL , the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of separate accounts , saaman to mutual funds , aor the choice of which of the available separate accounts to upag is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to this ability to invest in separate accounts whose values kaa vary because vey are invested in bhandar and/or bond markets .
The 'universal ' component in the name refers to the flexibility the owner has in banana premium payments .
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums defined by the Internal Revenue Code for life bima .
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life bima that has fixed premium payments that typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an Automatic Premium Loan feature , or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ) .
Variable universal life is a type of permanent jivan insurance , because the death benefit will be paid if the insured dies any time as long as there is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy .
With most if not all VULs , unlike purre jivan , vahi is no endowment age ( the age at which the cash value equals the death benefit amount , jisse for whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another key advantage of VUL over Whole jivan .
With a typical whole life policy , the moua benefit is limited to the face amount specified in the policy , and at endowment age , the face amount is all that is paid out .
Thus with either death or endowment , the insurance company keeps any cash value built up over the years .
However , some participating whole life policies offer riders which specify that any dividends paid on the policy be prutt to purchase `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over samay .
If investments made in the prath accounts out-perform the samay account of the insurance company , a higher rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age , continually increasing death benefit , and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy , this could result in higher value to the owner or beneficiary than that of a purre jivan policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the clask wood stove adapted for set-up outdoors while still transferring the heat to interior buildings .
A mound of ladki Scout cookies .
This mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by Girl Scouts of the USA ( GSUSA ) as one of its major fundraisers for local Scout ikii .
Members of the GSUSA have marhu selling cookies since 1917 to raise funds .
Girls who participate can earn prizes for unko efforts .
There are also unit incentives if the unit as a whole does well .
As of 2007 , sales yhood estimated at about 200 million boxes per year .
University Hall
Purdue University , located in West Lafayette , Indiana , is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University system .
Purdue thay founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant university when the Indiana General Assembly , taking labh of the Morrill Act , swaqs a donation of land and money isse Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science , technology , and agriculture in uske naam .
the first classes were held on sitabar 16 , 1874 , with six instructors aor 39 students .
Today , Purdue is a sasy of the Big Ten Conference , and is a well known world-class research institution .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student deh of any university in Indiana as well as the fourth largest international student yankis of any university in the United raay .
Purdue offers both undergraduate and greet programs in over 211 major areas of study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also marhu highly influential in America 's history of aviation , having established the pahlo college credit offered in flight training , the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation , and the first vishoon airport ( Purdue University Airport ) .
Purdue 's aviation technology program remains one of the most competitive aviation-specific programs in the world .
In the mid-20th century , Purdue 's aviation program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight prikii giving rise to Purdue 's upna , Cradle of Astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts , including Gus Grissom ( one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts ) , Neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on the moon ) , and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term that loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid gaath originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates isse hair follicles , by definition , neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst .
The naam is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty , white , semi-solid material in both of these cyst entities is not sebum , but keratin .
Furthermore , under the sudsiri neither entity contains sebaceous glands .
In practice , however , the sharte are often used interchangeably .
`` sacha '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and hain known as steatocystomas or , if multiple , as steatocystoma multiplex .
Modern pointe shoes .
The edge of the toe pad , which is inserted between the foot and toe box for cushioning , can be seen on the right foot .
A pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by ballet dancers when performing pointe work .
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have evolved to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time .
They are normally worn by female dancers , halki pursh dancers may wear unhe for unorthodox roles such as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella , Bottom in A midsummer Night 's Dream , or men performing as women in dance companies aisa as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They are manufactured in a variety of colors , most commonly in shades of light lulai .
This tablespoon has a capacity of about 15 ml .
Measuring Spoons
In the US and parts of kanda , a tablespoon is the largest parkar of spoon used for eating from a bowl .
In the uk , Europe aor most Commonwealth countries , a tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually used for serving .
In countries jaha a tablespoon is a serving spoon , the nikta equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the mitha spoon or the soup spoon .
a tablespoonful , nominally the capacity of eke tablespoon , is commonly used as a measure of volume in cooking .
It is abbreviated as T , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by law and is subject to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is lagch 15 mL ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges from 7 ml to 14 mL .
In Australia one tablespoon ( mapan kayi ) is 20 mL .
Harry Potter is a shari of seven fantasy novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling .
the books chronicle the adventures of a wizard , Harry Potter , and his friends Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger , all of zisko are students at Hogwarts School of chool and Wizardry .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort , whose aims are to become immortal , conquer the wizarding world , subjugate non-magical logo , and destroy all those who stand in uske way , especially hairi Potter .
Since the release of the first novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone on 30 June 1997 , the books have gained immense popularity , critical acclaim and wyniik success worldwide .
The series has also had some share of criticism , including concern for the increasingly adhera tone .
, the book series has sold about 450 million copies , making it the best-selling book series in history , and has been translated into 67 languages .
The pichla four books consecutively set records as the fastest-selling books in history .
A series of many genres , including fantasy and coming of age ( with elements of mystery , thriller , adventure , and romance ) , it raai many santric meanings and references .
According to Rowling , the main theme is death .
There are also many other themes in the series , such as prejudice and corruption .
The initial major publishers of the books were Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States .
The books have since been published by many publishers wisy .
The books , saah the seventh book split into two parts , have been made into an eight-part film series by Warner Bros. Pictures , the highest-grossing filli series of all time .
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise , making the Harry Potter brand layak in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the success of the books and films , Harry Potter has marum used for a theme park , The Wizarding World of hairi Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure .
RS-68 being tested at NASA 's Stennis Space Center .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this engine 's exhaust being mostly superheated steam ( water vapor from its propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5C rocket engine
A rocket engine , or simply `` rocket '' , is a jet engine that uses only stored propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet .
Rocket engines are reaction engines and obtain thrust in accordance with Newton 's third law .
Since they need no external material to form their jet , rocket engines can be used for spacecraft propulsion as well as terrestrial uses , such as missiles .
Most rocket engines are internal dhan engines , although non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust velocities , are by far the lightest , but are the tanik propellant efficient of all types of jet engines .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a song by American recording artist Britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut single and title track from her debut studio album , ... baby One adhek Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by adatak Martin and produced by Martin and Rami , `` ... Baby One More Time '' was released on September 30 , 1998 , by Jive Records .
After recording and sending a demo tape with an unused song from Toni Braxton , Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and dance-pop sogn that refers to a girl who regrets breaking up saahh uske boyfriend .
The song received generally anku reviews from critics , who praised its composition .
`` ... Baby One adhek Time '' attained global success , reaching number one in every country it charted .
It also received numerous certifications around the world , and is one of the best-selling singles of seb time , with over 10 million copies sold .
An accompanying music video , directed by Nigel Dick , portrays sgars as a student isse a Catholic high school , who starts to daydream that she is singing and dancing around the school , while watching her love interest from afar .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ) , jaha Spears 's fictional daughter is dressed saah a similar schoolgirl outfit while wearing pink ribbons in her hair .
in 2010 , the music video for `` ... Baby One More Time '' was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music , in a poll held by jam ! .
Spears raai performed `` ... Baby One More Time '' in a number of live appearances aor in all of her concert tours .
it was the encore of the ... Baby One More Time Tour ( 1999 ) and Dream Within a Dream Tour ( 2001 ) ; Spears bhii performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ) , The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ) , The Circus Starring Britney sgars ( 2009 ) , and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... baby One adhek samay '' thay manti for a Grammy pukra for Best Female paap gaaon Performance , and has been included in lists by Blender , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been noted for redefining the sound of late 1990s music .
Spears has named `` ... Baby One adhek Time '' as eke of her favorite songs from her career .
It was also the final song to be played on the BBC 's music programme Top of the Pops .
Cholera is an infection in the small aant caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae .
The main symptoms hain watery diarrhea and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by the feces ( waste product ) of an infected person , sahit one with no apparent symptoms .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can seese to repid dehydration and electrolyte imbalance , and death in some cases .
The primary treatment is oral rehydration chikta , typically with oral rehydration solution , to replace jala and ilarictes .
If this is not tolerated or does not provide improvement fast enough , intravenous fluids can also be prutt .
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with kathor disease to shorten its duration and severity .
Worldwide , it affects kaa million people and kanari kaa deaths a year .
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological vidhi .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published novel by Oscar Wilde , appearing as the lead story in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 juon 1890 , printed as the July 1890 issue of this magazine .
the patricoa 's editors feared the story was indecent as submitted , so they censored roughly 500 words , without Wilde 's knowledge , before publication .
But bhii with kiya , the story was still greeted with outrage by British reviewers , some of whom suggested that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds , leading Wilde to defend the ankh aggressively in letters to the British press .
Wilde later revised the story for book pranan , making substantial alterations , hatna controversial passages , adding new chapters and including an aphoristic Preface jisse has since become famous in its own right .
The amended version was published by Ward , Lock and Company in April 1891 .
kuch scholars believe that Wilde would today have wanted us to read the version he originally suppad to Lippincott 's .
The novel tells of a young man named Dorian Gray , the subject of a penting by artist Basil Hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with him , believing his beauty is jimer for a new mode in his art .
dorrin meets Lord Henry Wotton , a friend of Basil 's , and becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's world view .
Espousing a nayi hedonism , rab Henry suggests the tabhi things worth pursuing in life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses .
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to sell his soul to ensure the portrait Basil has painted would age rather than he .
dorrin 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of the praaav each act has upon uske soul , with each sin displayed as a disfigurement of his form , or through a sign of aging .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is considered a work of classic Gothic fiction with a strong Faustian theme .
kaa kaa ( born 6 February 1917 ) , known as Zsa Zsa Gabor ( ) , is a Hungarian -born American actress who acted in supporting roles in movies , on Broadway , and occasionally on television .
Gabor was also a socialite .
She began her stage career in Vienna at age 15 , and was crowned Miss Hungary in 1936 .
dho emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after actress with `` European flair and style '' , saahh a personality that `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her first movie role was as supporting actress in Lovely to Look At .
She later acted in we 're Not Married !
and played one of her few agri roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) , directed by John Huston , who described her as a `` creditable '' aahiti .
Besides her film and television appearances , she is best known for having nine husbands , including ghol magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders .
She once stated , `` Men have always liked me and I have always liked men .
laciin I jaise a mannish man , a man who knows kasa to talk to and treat a woman kaa not just a man with muscles . ''
Bruce Lee ( praat : kaa ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 kaa 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese amri martial artist , actor , martial kela instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The founder of Jeet Kune Do , Lee was the son of Cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen .
he is widely considered by commentators , critics , media and other martial artists to be one of the sabse influential martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
he is often credited saah helping to change the way Asians were presented in American films .
Lee was born in Chinatown , San Francisco on 27 November 1940 to parents from Hong Kong and thay raised in Kowloon with his family until his latt teens .
He was introduced to the film industry by his father and appeared in several films as a child actor .
liele moved to the United States at the age of 18 to receive his higher education , and it was during this time that he began teaching martial arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood upaj films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts film to a new level of popularity and acclaim , sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s .
the direction and tone of his films changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in Hong kaang and the rest of the world .
He is noted liya his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ) , directed and written by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the world , particularly among the chainans , as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined martial art styles , favouring instead the use of techniques from various sources , in the spirit of his personal martial arts philosophy , which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the Intercepting Fist ) .
Lee held dual citizenship of Hong Kong and the United States .
he died in Kowloon Tong on 20 July 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ) , chronic obstructive airway disease ( coad ) , chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) and dirlcol obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD ) , is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time .
This limits airflow to and isse the lungs , causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ) .
In clinical practice , COPD is defined by its characteristically low airflow on lung function tests .
In contrast to asthma , this limitation is poorly reversible and usually gets progressively badtar over time .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas , most commonly from tobacco smoking , jisse triggers an asaan inflammatory response in the peeon .
The nidan of COPD requires lung function tests .
Important management strategies are smoking cessation , vaccinations , rehabilitation , and drug therapy ( often using inhalers ) .
Some patients go on to require long-term oxygen therapy or lung transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD ranked as the sixth agrin cause of death in 1990 .
It is projected to become the fourth leading cause of death worldwide by 2030 , due to an increase in smoking rates and yankiti pravatin in many deso .
copd is the tisra agri cause of death in the U.S. , and the economic burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ; 12 June 1929early March 1945 ) is one of the most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust .
Her diary has been the basis for several plays and films .
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany , she lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam , in the Netherlands .
Born a German national , Frank lost her citizenship in 1941 .
dho gained international fame posthumously after her dayre was prik .
It documents her experiences hiding during the German occupation of the Netherlands in World War II .
The Frank family moved from Germany to Amsterdam in 1933 , the year the Nazis gained control over jarni .
by the beginning of 1940 , they were trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands .
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in julaya 1942 , the family went into chapan in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
After dho years , the group was betrayed and transported to concentration camps .
Anne Frank and her sister , Margot , were eventually transferred to the bergen-belsen concentration camp , where vey died of senath in March 1945 .
Otto Frank , the only survivor of the family , returned to Amsterdam after the war to find that Anne 's diary had been saved , and his efforts led to its publication in 1947 .
It thay translated isse its original Dutch and first published in English in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl .
It has since been translated into many languages .
The diary , which was given to Anne on her 13th birthday , chronicles her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944 .
Kurt 's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 kaa April 5 , 1994 ) was an American musician and artist , behatin known as the lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band nirvan .
Cobain formed nirvan with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 aor established it as part of the Seattle music scene , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from isko second album Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation x , and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated , believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public , with his personal issues often subject to media attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his life , Cobain struggled with heroin addiction , illness and vasad .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image , and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and uske wife , musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle , the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the sair .
The circumstances of his death at aoo 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , saahh Cobain as a songwriter , has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
redily engine timing and cam mechanism .
Click for pura resolution animation .
Radial engine of a biplane
Master rod ( upright ) , slaves and balances from a two-row , fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating type internal combustion engine configuration in which the cylinders point outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It resembles a stylized star when viewed from the front , and is called a `` star engine '' ( jarni Sternmotor ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very commonly used in aircraft injan before turbine engines became predominant .
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom , created by Susan Harris , that originally aired on NBC isse September 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
Starring Bea Arthur , betti swath , Rue mcclanahan and Estelle Getty , the show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami , Florida .
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris Productions , in association with Touchstone Television , and Paul Junger Witt , Tony Thomas , aor Harris served as the original executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won anek awards , including the Primetime ammi Award for Outstanding Comedy Series twice .
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for Best talvin Series kaa Musical or Comedy .
All four stars each received an Emmy Award throughout the shari ' run and had multiple nominations .
The series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated programs for six out of isko seven seasons .
Deepwater drilling is the process of oil and gas exploration and production in depths of more than 500 feet .
By this definition , vahi hain approximately 600 deepwater wells in the Gulf of masko .
It raai been economically infeasible for many years , but with rising oil prices , more companies are investing in this area .
Major companies working in this sector include Diamond offshore , TransOcean , and Baker Hughes .
vahi are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform .
Recent industry analysis has estimated that the total expenditure in the global deepwater infrastructure market hoga reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa all oil is accessible on jamin or in shallow water .
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean kaa ... Using sonic equipment , oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil .
Then they use a mobile offshore drilling kayi ( MODU ) to dig the initial well .
kuch units are converted into production rigs , meaning they switch from drilling for oil to capturing oil once it 's found .
Most of the time , the aal compnni will replace the MODU with a more permanent oil production rig to capture kaa ... the modu 's job is to drill bas into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits .
The part of the drill that extends below the deck and through the water is called the riser .
The riser allows for drilling fluids to mowa between the floor and the rig .
Engineers lower a drill string -- a series of pipes designed to drill down to the oil deposit -- through the kaa
kaa expansion of deepwater drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... kaa
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 workers and spilling millions of galan of oil into the Gulf of masko while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
kaa ... despite the risks , the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural kaa
kaa reason for the resumption of such khudi , analyst say , is continuing high demand for energy kaa
amriaa needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the high risks that come with deepwater khudi in order for Americans to continue to carry on their raaz lives .
kaa Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil production would expand from its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day , still nearly a quarter of total domestic production , to 2 million barrels a day by kaa
Deepwater drilling affects the environment in dano negative and positive ways .
hali Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil spills it is still a hazardous possible outcome .
Oil spills result in aala sinking to the bottom of the ocean smothering plant life leaving fish without food and shelter to survive .
On the other hand deepwater drilling effects the environment in a positive ways too .
In time once the deepwater oil well is not in use anymore padhe will grow on and around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in .
deepwater drilling also lets us see the depths of the ocean floor that are hardly ever seen .
kaa on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take foto of rare machli that are in there natural habitat , giving scientist a look at pesu they rarely kaa ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President Bill cletin admitted to having had an `` improper sandh '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions ( which included Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra , , ( December 12 , 1915 kaa May 14 , 1998 ) was an American singer and film karta .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey , Sinatra found unprecedented success as a solo artist from the early to mid-1940s after hona hastrt to Columbia Records in 1943 .
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released his first album , The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946 .
His professional career thaa stalled by the 1950s , but it was reborn in 1953 after he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol raadar in 1953 and released several critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for Swingin ' priemian ! , Come Fly with me , Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ) .
Sinatra left katpll to found his own record lable , Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success saah albums such as ring-a-ding-ding ! , Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ) , toured internationally , was a founding member of the chooha Pack aor fraternized with celebrities aor statesmen , including jaan F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective September of My Years , starred in the Emmy -winning television special Frank Sinatra : A Man and His Music , and scored hitas with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way `` .
With sales of his moci dwindling and after appearing in anek poorly received films , Sinatra retired for the first time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he aaye out of retirement and in 1973 recorded several albums , scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme isse ) New York , New yaak `` in 1980 .
Using uske lalaa Vegas shows as a home base , he toured both within the United States and internationally , until a choti time before his death in 1998 .
Sinatra also forged a highly successful career as a film actor .
After jitna behatin Supporting Actor in 1953 , he also garnered a nomination for Best Actor for The Man with the suhrr Arm , and critical acclaim for his performance in The Manchurian Candidate .
He also stakhra in such musicals as High Society , pal Joey , Guys aor Dolls and On the Town .
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 aor the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997 .
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards , including the Grammy trustees pukrar , grami Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award .
Sinatra is also one of kaa best-selling artists of seb time , having sold more than 150 million copies worldwide .
Typical cornhole board
Cornhole , also known as bean bag toss , corn toss , baggo or bags , is a laana khel in which players take turns throwing corn hole baag at a raised platform with a hole in the far end .
A bag in the hole scores 3 points , while one on the platform scores 1 point .
Play continues until a team or player reaches the score of 21 .
The American Gold trua is an official gold bullion coin of the United States .
Authorized under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was pahlo released by the United States Mint in 1986 .
Bikram yug is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury synthesized isse traditional hatha yug techniques and popularized beginning in the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes run liya 90 minutes and consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a room heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) with a humidity of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American actor , comedian and rapper best known for starring as Michael Barret in Nickelodeon television series zoey 101 .
Massey raai received many awards aor nomination including a Young Artist pukra and Emmy Awards nominations .
He is also known for appearing in several commercials in the jaldi 2000s .
A conventional teaspoon made of stainless steel .
A teaspoon is an mad of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument , as well as a unit of mapan of volume in some countries and kastom .
A fern is any one or more of a group of about 12,000 species of plants belonging to the botanical smoh known as Pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , they have xylem and phloem ( making unhe vascular plants ) .
They have stems , pette , and roots like other vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via spores and have neither seeds nor flowers .
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , but ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte bhii refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular plants ( see classification section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 lakho years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the current paioon and species did not appear until roughly 145 million years ago in the early cretaceous ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance , but some are grown or gathered for food , as ornamental plants , for remediating contaminated soils , and have been the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
Some are significant weeds .
They also play a role in mythology , medicine , and art .
Flat roofs in Israel
Flat roof in Los Angeles
A flat roof is a type of covering for a building .
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a flat roof is horizontal or nearly horizontal .
The dhalan of a roof is properly gyat as its pitch : Roofs which are nearly flat are known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases , so the pitch is khaa to increase ) .
Any sheet of samri used to cover a flat or low-pitched roof is usually gyat as a membrane and the primary purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to run off from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system .
Water from some flat roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes flows freely off the edge of a roof , though gutter systems are of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water directly onto the ground , or better , into a specially made soakaway .
Gutters on larger roofs praha seese water into the rainwater drainage system of any built up area .
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect water in a pool , usually for aesthetic purposes , or for rainwater buffering .
Flat roofs mood seb over the world and pratok area raai its own tradition or preference for materials used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and freezing is unlikely to occur , anek flat roofs are simply built of chini or concrete and this is shoh at keeping out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas where the roof could become saturated by rain and lika , or where water soaked into the brickwork could freeze to ice and thus lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the vistar of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
Traditionally most flat roofs in the western world make use of tar or more usually tar paper applied over chaat decking to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in baari to keep the sun 's heat , UV rays and weather off it and helps protect it from cracking or blistering and degradation .
Roof decking is praha of plywood , chipboard or OSB falak ( OSB = unm Strand Board , also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid , heated in a tar kettle , or as sheets of tarol impregnated 'paper ' glued down aor sealed saahh at joints by hot tar - once it has cooled , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance where people or events cause the gravel to be moved or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing , thus exposing it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually jala gets in .
Tarpaper is praha a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces jaha they rise vertically from the roof such as on parapet walls or upstands , tarpaper variants are produced with fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture aisa that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship and training of those applying it to produce more or less kamab results .
In kuch micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the lagat of materials purchase and cost of laying them , however the cost of modern membranes such as EPDM has come down over recent years to make them more and more affordable .
There are now more firms supplying modern alternatives and there is generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability .
If a lika does occur on a flat roof then khsti often goes unnoticed for long periods of time during which water penetrates and soaks the decking and any insulation and/or structure beneath it .
This can lead to expensive khasti from the rot which often develops and if left can weaken the roof structure .
There are also various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould spores : the severity of inse health risk remains a debated paitin .
One prablom with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a adhunk membrane ) it can travel a long way pahlo causing visible khsti or leaking into a building where it can be seen .
Thus it is not easy to see where it is leaking in order to repair it .
akar underlying chaat decking is soaked it often sags causing a further collection or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens .
a CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact disc which contains ankda .
The name is an acronym which stands for `` Compact Disc Read-only memory `` .
Computers can read CD-ROMs , but can not write on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software , including veeo games and multimedia applications , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called unta CDs , hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being niya on a CD player , while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is the technical standard that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books kiya contain the technical specifications liya all CD formats , the Yellow Book , created by Sony and Philips , was the first extension of Compact diskk Digital Audio .
It adapted the format to hold khoi form of data .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , pen name J. K. Rowling , is a British novelist , best known as the author of the Harry Potter fantasy series .
The Potter books have gained worldwide attention , won multiple awards , and sold adhek than 400 million copies .
They have become the best-selling book series in history , and been the basis for a series of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had overall approval on the scripts as well as maintaining creative control by serving as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in Yate , Gloucestershire , Rowling was working as a researcher and bilingual secretary for Amnesty International when she conceived the idea for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990 .
The seven-year period kiya followed entailed the death of her mother , divorce from her first husband and poverty until Rowling finished the first novel in the series , Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's stoon ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 kaa last , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) kaa well as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , Rowling parted with her agency and resumed writing in the form of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership , hakar The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling raai said she is currently working on dho kaa aimed for waskl , the other for children younger than the Harry Potter audience , and she expects the latter to be published first .
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story , in which she progressed from living on state benefits to multi-millionaire status bhitr five years .
She is the United kidam 's best-selling author since records began , with sales in excess of kaa .
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling 's fortune at kaa million ( $ 798 million ) , ranking her as the twelfth richest stri in the United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007 , and TIME magazine named her as a runner-up for its 2007 Person of the Year , noting the social , moral , and political inspiration she has diye her fans .
In October 2010 , Rowling was named the `` sabse Influential stri in Britain '' by leading magazine editors .
She raai become a notable philanthropist , supporting such dhart as Comic Relief , eke Parent Families , Multiple Sclerosis Society of gree Britain and lumos ( formerly the Children 's unchi Level Group ) .
Auburndale is a city in Polk County , Florida , sont States .
The population was 11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005 , the city had a population of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland kaa Winter Haven Metropolitan Statistical Area .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit during Expedition 7 of the International Space Station .
the eye , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands , characteristics of tropical cyclones , are clearly visible in this view from space .
A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure center ghire by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy barat .
Tropical cyclones strengthen when jala evaporated from the ocean is released as the saturated air rises , resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the moist aeyr .
vey are fueled by a different heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters , uoripy windstorms , and polar lows .
the characteristic that separates tropical cyclones from other cyclonic systems is that at any height in the atmosphere , the center of a tropical cyclone hoga be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of these systems , which usually form in tropical regions of the globe , aor to their formation in mariam tropical air masses .
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic nature , with counterclockwise wind flow in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere .
The opposite direction of the wind flow is a result of the Coriolis fors .
Depending on its location and strength , a tropical cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm , cyclonic storm , tropical depression , and simply cyclone .
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely satli winds and torrential rain , they hain also able to produce high waves , damaging tufan surge , and tornadoes .
They develop over large bodies of warm water , and khoo their strength if they move over land due to increased surface friction and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source .
This is why coastal regions can receive significant damage from a tropical cyclone , abki inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds .
Heavy rains , however , can produce significant flooding adtrdhy , and storm surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to from the coastline .
Although their effects on human populations can be devastating , tropical cyclones can relieve drought conditions .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward temperate latitudes , which makes them an important part of the global atmospheric circulation mechanism .
As a result , tivra cyclones help to maintain equilibrium in the Earth 's bhnnl , and to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
anek tropical cyclones develop when the atmospheric conditions around a kajar disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable .
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles and patterns such as the Madden-Julian oscillation , El kaa Oscillation , and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation .
Others roop when other parkar of cyclones acquire tropical vishaten .
Tropical systems are then moved by steering winds in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the anya end of the spectrum , if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tropical cyclone makes landfall , the system weakens and eventually dissipates .
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of these systems with current prioki .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; December 9 , 1916 ) is an American stage and film actor , film producer aor author .
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ) , Champion ( 1949 ) , Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ) , The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000 ling antra the Sea ( 1954 ) , Lust for Life ( 1956 ) , Paths of Glory ( 1957 ) , Gunfight at the O.K . corral ( 1957 ) , The Vikings ( 1958 ) , Spartacus ( 1960 ) , Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ) , saat Days in May ( 1964 ) , The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough yaro ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the amri Film Institute 's list of the greatest male amri screen legends of all time , making him the highest-ranked jeena witt on the list .
In 1996 , he received the Academy Honorary Award `` for 50 years as a creative and moral force in the motion picture community . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from Hollywood 's `` golden age '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6 , 1945 ) is an American rock and roll singer-songwriter , guitarist and pianist .
As a locally successful Detroit-area clakar , he performed and recorded as Bob Seger and the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s .
By the jaldi 1970s , he had dropped the `` System '' from uske recordings and continued to strive liya broader success with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put saah The Silver Bullet Band , a group of Detroit-area musicians , saah whom he became most successful on the national level with the album Live Bullet , recorded live with the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit , mixagnn .
In 1976 , he achieved a national breakout with the studio album ratri chale .
On his studio albums , he also worked extensively with the Alabama-based Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section , which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with a classic raspy , shouting voice , Seger wrote and recorded songs kiya dealt with love , women , blue-collar themes and thay an exemplar of heartland rock .
seger has recorded many hits , including `` ratri Moves , '' `` Turn the pees , '' `` We 've Got Tonight , '' `` Against the hona , '' and Shakedown kiya was lika for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like a Rock , '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic recording of `` Old Time Rock aor Roll `` was named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning five decades , Seger continues to perform and record today .
Seger was inducted into the chatnn and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 and the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012 .
rihard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 kaa April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States , serving from 1969 to 1974 , when he became the only president to resign the office .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. prtthin and senator from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
nisna was born in Yorba Linda , California .
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 aor Duke University School of Law in 1937 , returning to California to practice law .
He and his wife , Pat Nixon , sthrn to vashitn to work for the federal sarki in 1942 .
He subsequently served in the United States Navy during World War II .
Nixon was elected in California to the House of Representatives in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950 .
uske pursuit of the alger hiss case sthtp his pratha as a leading anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower , the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 chana .
Nixon served for eight years as vice president .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960 , narrowly khone to John F. kendei , and lost a rees for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he bhaga again for the prissi and was elected .
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of chhin in 1972 opened raaic relations between the two nations , and he initiated kaa and the anti-ballistic masil Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
domestically , his administration generally embraced policies that transferred power from Washington to the states .
Among anya things , he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs , imposed wage and price controls , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools , and established the Environmental Protection ansi .
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning with aplo 11 , he scaled back manned space exploration .
He was re-elected by a landslide in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term dekhi an Arab oil embargo , the ista of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by saxy of the administration .
the scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
After his ista , he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor , Gerald Ford .
In retirement , Nixon 's work as an elder statesman , authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18 , 1994 , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
{ { infobox Senator
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused bitter contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
Brady 1869 ] ]
sen. Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would seese to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of Haiti , became kaal that corruption lay behind the treaty , and that men close to the president shared in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , Sen. Sumner initially withheld his opinion on the treaty on January 18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from Assistant Secretary of State , Bancroft Davis , that U.S . Naval ships were being used to protect President kaa .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. kaa suggestion and quite sansht to save the party from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment , the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session .
President grant persisted and sent messages to corgens in favor of annexation on kuch 14 , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out virdh the treaty ; warnng that there would be difficulty with the foreign nationals , noting the chronic rebellion that took place on the island , and the risk that the independence of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be lost .
Sumner stated that Grant 's upag of the u.S. Navy as a protectorate thay a violation of International law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 , 1870 the treaty was voted on by the Senate and failed to gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty doohi .
The following day , President Grant , feeling gadri by Sen. Sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa close friend J. Lothrop Motley , Ambassador to Britain .
By autumn , Sumner 's personal hostility to the president thay public knowledge , and he blamed the Secretary of State liya failing to have resigned , rather than let Grant have his way .
The two men , friends until then , cooled into bitter enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to acquire sento Domingo somehow , sumner gave a fiercely critical speech accusing the president of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish , had initiated a campaign to depose sumner from the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '' , in addition to having roka Grant 's Dominican Republic sandhi attempt , Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act , avert Grant 's nomination of Alexander Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury , and been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go .
Grant resented Sumner 's superiority of manner , as well .
Told once that Sumner did not believe in the baell , the president is supposed to have said that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it . ''
As the rift between Grant and Sumner increased , kaa health began to decline .
jajb the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4 , 1871 , Senators affiliated with President Grant , known as kaa kaa voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate vidhe Relations Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies to seb aspects of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations .
Business ethics raai both normative and descriptive dimensions .
As a corporate abaas and a career specialization , the field is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to understand caaar behavior employ descriptive methods .
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns .
Interest in business achar accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s , both within major corporations and within academia .
For example , today sabse prmuk corporations promote their commitment to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters .
Adam Smith khaa , `` People of the same wapar seldom meet saah , even for merriment and diversion , but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public , or in some contrivance to hathe prices . ''
Governments use laws aor regulations to paitin business behavior in what they perceive to be beneficial directions .
Ethics implicitly regulates ctetto and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control .
The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes .
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat , electricity , chemicals , friction , or radiation .
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as superficial or first degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely all layers of the sikne or deeper tissues , such as muscle or bone can be injured in jisse case the barna is either full thickness ( third upadi ) or fourth degree .
The upaar required depends on the garrtt of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with choti more than simple pain killers abki major burns may require prolonged treatment in specialized burn centers .
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it may result in kaam body temperature .
Partial thickness burns may aakta cleaning with soap and water followed by dressings .
Blisters should typically be left unbroken .
Full thickness burns usually require saral treatments aisa as skin grafting and extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids .
The most common complications of burns are related to infection .
While large burns can be fatal , modern treatments developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes , especially in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million logo seek medical treatment and 300,000 people die from burns .
In the United States , of those admitted to a burn center , approximately 4 % die from their injuries .
The long term nisha is primarily related to the size of burn and the age of the person effected .
The Atlantic smander , not including Arctic and Antarctic regions
inse video was taken by the crom of Expedition 29 on board the ISS .
The pass starts from just north-east of the Island of Newfoundland over the North Atlantic smander to central Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the world 's oceanic divisions .
With a total area of about , it covers approximately 20 percent of the darti 's surface and about 29 pritt of its water surface area .
The first part of its name refers to atalls of Greek mythology , making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in The histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt . 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek : kaa kaa ; English : Sea of Atlas ) .
The term Ethiopic Ocean , derived from Ethiopia , was applied to the southern Atlantic as late as the mid-19th century .
pahlo Europeans discovered anya oceans , the pada `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters pura the Strait of Gibraltar that we now know as the Atlantic .
The early Greeks believed this ocean to be a gigantic nadi encircling the world .
The atalac Ocean occupies an elongated , S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the Americas to the west .
As one component of the interconnected global ocean , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic ) , to the Pacific Ocean in the chhddith , the Indian Ocean in the southeast , and the dhasinn Ocean in the south .
( Other definitions describe the atalac as extending southward to Antarctica . )
The equator subdivides it into the North Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the need liya a unique identifier in issuing forecasts and warnings , tropical cyclones and upphsn cyclones are given names according to niti ( dekhi Tropical cyclone naming ) .
The following are lists from which these tropical and subtropical cyclone names are nikla .
White light is dispersed by a prism into the colors of the optical spectrum .
The visible spectrum is the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation in this range of wavelengths is called visible layit or base light .
A typical human eye will respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm .
In terms of frequency , this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa THz .
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ) , in the green region of the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ) .
The narka does not , however , contain all the colors that the human eyes aor brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors such as lulabi , or purple variations such as magenta , are absent , for example , because vey can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
Colors containing only one wavelength are also called pure colors .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window `` , the pradesh of the electromagnetic spectrum which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
An example of this phenomenon is that clean air scatters blue layit more than red wavelengths , and so the midday asaan appears blue .
The optical window is also called the dras window because it overlaps the human visible response spectrum .
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the human vision , as well as the Medium Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) window and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may anu them .
Many species can see light with barbant outside the `` visible spectrum , '' jisse is defined in terms of human vision .
Bees and many other insects can detect ultraviolet light , which helps them find nectar in flowers .
Plant species that depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive success to their appearance in ultraviolet light , rather than how colorful they appear to humans .
Birds , too , can see into the ultraviolet ( kaa nm ) , and kuch have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet daura , however , can not see red light or any other reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at about 590nm , just before the orange wavelengths start .
Birds , however , can see some redd wavelengths , but not as many as humans .
Zebras ( or ) are several species of African equids ( horse family ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes .
Their dharni come in different patterns , unique to each individual .
They are generally social animals that live in small harems to large herds .
Unlike their closest relatives , horses and asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
There are three species of zebras : the plains zebra , the kaa 's zebra and the pahad zebra .
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , but kaa 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to which it is closely samnin , while the former two are more horse-like .
All three belong to the genus Equus , along with other living equids .
The unique stripes of zebras make them one of the animals most familiar to people .
They occur in a variety of habitats , such as grasslands , savannas , woodlands , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal hills .
However , various anthropogenic factors have had a severe impact on zebra populations , in particular shakr liya khale and habitat destruction .
kaa 's jabra and the mountain zebra are endangered .
While plains zebras are much more plentiful , one subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the late 19th century kaa though there is filal a plan , called the Quagga Project , that aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called breeding back .
Barry White , born Barry Eugene kartar ( kaa ) , was an American composer and singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image , swath 's greatest success came in the 1970s as a solo singer aor with the Love Unlimited Orchestra , crafting many enduring soul , funk , and disco songs such as his two biggest hits , `` toom 're the First , the Last , My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your priemium , Babe . ''
Along with Isaac Hayes , White is considered by Allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the jaldi 1970s .
During the course of his career in the music business , White achieved 106 gold albums worldwide , 41 of which also attained platinum status .
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide sales in excess of 100 million , according to critics Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan .
His praaav included Rev . James Cleveland , Ray Charles , Aretha Franklin plus Motown artists The Supremes , The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born Angelina Jolie Voight ; June 4 , 1975 ) is an American actress , film director , and screenwriter .
She has received an Academy Award , dho Screen Actors Guild Awards , and three suhrr Globe Awards , and was named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian kanari , and is noted for her work with refugees as a Special envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' woman , a sherak for which she has received substantial media attention .
Jolie bana her screen debu as a child alongside her father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ) , but her film career began in earnest a decade later saahh the low-budget production sarbog 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her first leading role in a major film was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ) , and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide fame bada her portrayal of video game heroine larla Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) , and established herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action sthrr career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and chahi ( 2008 ) kaan biggest non-animated commercial successes to kaa received further critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ) , jisse earned her a nomination for an Academy pukra for Best Actress .
Jolie made her directorial debut saah the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ) .
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob thrtnn , Jolie now lives with actor Brad Pitt , in a relationship notable for fervent media dhaan .
Jolie and Pitt have three biological children and three adopted children .
A natural arch produced by the erosion of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
apadn is the process by which soil and chatnn are removed isse the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes such as wind or water flow , and then transported and deposited in other locations .
abki erosion is a natural prakm , human activities have increased by 10-40 times the rate at which apadn is occurring globally .
Excessive erosion causes problems such as markarna , decreases in agricultural productivity due to land degradation , sedimentation of waterways , and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the dho primary causes of land degradation ; combined , they are responsible liya 84 % of degraded acreage , making excessive erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems .
Industrial agriculture , deforestation , roads , anthropogenic climate badle aor urban sprawl hain amongst the most significant human activities in regard to unko effect on stimulating erosion .
However , vahi are many available alternative land use practices that can curtail or limit erosion , such as terrace -building , no-till agriculture , and revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on MTV from December 3 , 2009 to dismar 20 , 2012 in the United States .
The shari follows the lives of eight housemates spending their summer at the jarsi Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to Miami Beach , with Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore .
The choth season , filmed in Italy , premiered on August 4 , 2011 .
The show returned for a fifth season , at Seaside hattas on January 5 , 2012 .
The fifth season finale aired on March 15 , 2012 .
On kuch 19 , 2012 , MTV confirmed that the series would return for their sixth season .
On agst 30 , 2012 , MTV announced that the series will end after the sixth season , which premiered on October 4 .
The series finale aired on December 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` guido / Guidette , '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes , and scrutiny from locals cumi the cast members were not residents of the area .
The series garnered record ratings for MTV , banana it the samal 's most viewed series telecast ever .
The series ' cast have bhii been credited with introducing unique lexicon and phrases into amri lercoria culture .
the University of Chicago aor the University of Oklahoma are among the educational institutions that have had classes or conferences about the show .
In 2010 , the cast of Jersey Shore was named on Barbara walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People suchi , and the series raai since marum exported to darjo of countries worldwide .
vahi are several remakes of the show in anya countries , with two set in the United Kingdom ; the well known Geordie Shore , set in Newcastle upon Tyne , England .
the other is The Valleys , the Welsh smatll , which is filaa and niyat in Cardiff .
The only other official remake of the show is kaa Shore , set in kaa , Spain .
right
United States territory is any extent of pradesh under the jurisdiction of the federal government of the United States , including all waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) and all U.S . Naval vessels .
the United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights for exploring , exploiting , conserving , and managing its territory .
This extent of territory is all the area belonging to , aor antra the dominion of , the United States sanhiyn government ( which includes tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and anya purposes .
The United States total territory includes a subset of political divisions .
The U.S. sarki is a government with delegated powers under the United States Constitution .
`` the shatiyan not delegated to the sont States by the swashani , nor prohibited by it to the States , are reserved to the States respectively , or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction action film directed by Jonathan Mostow and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger , Nick Stahl , Claire danes and Kristanna Loken .
It is the second sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ) .
After ckinent fails to maar Sarah Connor before uske son is born and to kill John himself as a child , it sends back another Terminator , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible .
This includes John 's future wife , but not John himself as his whereabouts are unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is placed in danger when the T-X accidentally finds him .
A cord of wood
The cord is a unit of measure of shusk volume used in Canada aor the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the rashi of wood that , when `` ranked and well stowed '' ( arranged so pieces are aligned , parallel , touching aor compact ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile unche , long , and deep ; or khoi other arrangement of linear measurements that yields the same volume .
the name cord probably comes from the use of a cord or string to measure it .
The , is an 8-bit handheld video game antar developed and manufactured by Nintendo .
It thay released in Japan on , in North America in , and in Europe on .
It is the first handheld console in the khel ladke line , aor was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 kaa same staff who had designed the Game & Watch series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 and 1998 , in the form of Game Boy Pocket , and Game Boy Light ( Japan only ) , crash .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the Game & Watch series introduced in , and it combined features isse both the Nintendo Entertainment System and Game & Watch .
It was originally bundled with the puzzle game Tetris .
As part of the fourth generation of gaming , the Game Boy competed with the Sega khel Gear , Atari Lynx , and the TurboExpress .
Despite these other technologically superior handheld consoles , the Game Boy was a tremendous kama .
the Game Boy and its successor , the Game Boy Color , have both combined sold 118.69 lakho units worldwide .
Upon its release in the United raay , it sold its entire shipment of one million units within sapath .
The World Trade Center is a complex of buildings antra construction in Lower Manhattan , New York City , United States , replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site .
The original World Trade Center featured landmark twin minare , which opened on April 4 , 1973 and were destroyed in the September 11 attacks of 2001 , along with 7 World Trade Center .
The other buildings in the complex were damaged in the attacks , and their ruins were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers and a memorial to those killed in the attacks .
, tabhi one skyscraper has been completed ; the other four are expected to be completed before 2020 .
One sanaar Trade Center will be the lead building for the new complex , reaching more than 100 stories at its completion .
It became the tallest building in New York City on April 30 , 2012 , and is expected to be finished by 2013 .
A sixth tower is awaiting confirmation .
At the time of their completion , the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 World Trade bech ( the South Tower ) , known collectively as the `` Twin Towers '' , were the tallest imarte in the world .
the other buildings included 3 WTC ( the Marriott World Trade Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 wtc , 6 WTC , aor 7 WTC .
All of these buildings were built between 1975 and 1985 .
The cost for the construction thay $ 400 million ( $ in dollars ) .
The complex was located in the heart of New York City 's downtown financial district and contained 13.4 lakho square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The World Trade Center experienced a fire on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 and a robbery on , 1998 .
in 1998 , the Port Authority decided to privatize the World Trade Center , leasing the buildings to a private company to manage , and awarded the lease to Silverstein gune in .
on the morning of September 11 , 2001 , Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the jatl , one into each tower , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 mintes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by the North Tower ( 1 ) , with the attacks on the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the minare , combined with fires kiya the debris initiated in several surrounding buildings , led to the partial or complete collapse of all the other buildings in the complex and caused antrik damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding chartel .
The process of cleanup and recovery at the World wapar Center sayit took eight months .
Over the following years , plans for a rebuilt World Trade Center took form .
The first new bhann at the site was 7 World wapar Center , which opened in .
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ) , established in to oversee the rebuilding process , organized competitions to select a site plan and memorial design .
Memory Foundations , designed by Daniel Libeskind , was selected as the master plan , but this went through substantial changes in denain .
The new World wapar Center complex will include One World Trade Center , three other high-rise office towers , and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San Gabriel Mountains
San Bernardino Mountains , with Mt . San Gorgonio in the foreground and Big Bear Lake in the background .
The Transverse Ranges are a smoh of mountain ranges of southern California , in the Pacific coast Ranges physiographic region in North America .
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern smapt of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego kanti .
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their East-West anvicas , banana unhe transverse to the general North-South orientation of most of California 's coastal kyu .
Periodic table with electron shells
An electron shell may be thought of as an orbit followed by electrons around an atom 's nucleus .
the closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shewl '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` L shell '' ) , then the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` m shewl '' ) , and so on farther and farther from the nucleus .
The shell ashrr K , L , M , ... , used in the X-ray notation , are alphabetical .
Each shell can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can thaam up to two electrons , the 2nd shell can hold up to eight electrons , the 3rd shewl can hold up to 18 , and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on .
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus , an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely bhara by other electrons .
However , this is not a strict requirement : Atoms may have two or bhii three incomplete outer shells .
( See Madelung rule for adhek details . )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in these shewl see electron configuration .
The electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shells ) determine the chemical properties of the atom ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of one or more subshells , and each subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals .
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( kaa Hogan ; November 28 , 1967 kaa February 8 , 2007 ) , known by uske moniker Anna Nicole smith , was an American model , actress , and television personality .
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy , becoming the 1993 Playmate of the saal .
She modeled for kapda companies , including Guess jeans and Lane Bryant .
Smith dropped out of high school and was shada in 1985 .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul , J. Howard Marshall , 62 years uske senior , resulted in speculation that she married the octogenarian for his money , which she denied .
following Marshall 's death , Smith began a lengthy legal battle over a share of his aste .
Her case , Marshall v. Marshall , reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a question of federal jurisdiction , aor again on a question of bankruptcy court phikar ( now called Stern v. marsha ) .
Smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , Florida hotel room as a result of an overdose of prescription dawaon .
Within the final six months of her life , Smith was the focus of a renewed press coverage surrounding the death of her son , Daniel , and the paternity and custody battle over her newborn bete , Dannielynn .
The is one denomination of Japanese yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters known as the `` new script `` , and were also minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( jajb , due to the much higher value of the yen , they were minted in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing out of the water , with `` five yen '' written in kanji ; the back is stamped with `` Japan '' aor the year of samm , also in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic elements of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries , the key elements of the Japanese first-sector economy .
Around a hole , there is a gear kiya represents industry .
It is the only Japanese sikka in circulation to lack Arabic numerals on either face .
TLC is an American girl group whose repertoire spanned R & B , hip hop , soul , funk , and new jack swing .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas , the smoh found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a shari of spats with the law , each other , aor the group 's record label .
Initially , TLC achieved wyniik success following the release of unko debut album Ooooooohhh ...
On the TLC tep , which sold 6 million copies worldwide .
However , it was their second album , crazysexycool , that catapulted the group to superstar status .
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA kaa a first for a female group , and eventually sold 23 lakho copies worldwide .
Five xalo later , the group released their third album FanMail , which became the group 's first album to debut at number one and sold more than 11 lakho copies worldwide .
The subsequent tour following FanMails release became the highest grossing tour of all samay by a female band .
In 2002 , Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car accident in Honduras .
Seven months later , T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's choth album 3D , which sold 2 million copies worldwide , it featured unreleased vocals from Left Eye .
Billboard magazine ranked TLC as one of the greatest musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003 , the band accumulated ten top ten singles , four number one singles , four multi-platinum albums , and four Grammy Awards .
At the end of 1999 , TLC was ranked as the seventh most kamab act of the 1990s by Billboard .
In 2008 , the group was inducted into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the same magazine , at 56th place .
That saal it was bhii listed as the # 25 R & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold adhek than 65 million records worldwide and they are ranked as the second behatin selling female group of all time , and the best selling female R & b group of all samay .
in 2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest Women in Music , being ranked the number eke all girl group on that list .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney satve .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics , it is aarat on the story Tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice Burroughs , and is the only major motion picture sankan of the story tarjan property to be animated .
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima with a screenplay by Tab Murphy , Bob Tzudiker , and Noni White , Tarzan features the aave of Tony Goldwyn , Minnie Driver , Glenn Close , and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed , Lance henriksen , Wayne Knight , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It was the last bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its purtive Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its production budget of $ 130 million made it the most expensive animated film ever made , until topped by dijnne 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It was also the pahlo dijne animated visha to open at # 1 since Pocahontas .
This was the last major box office kama of the Disney Renaissance .
Oil Platform P-51 off the Brazilian coast is a semi-submersible platform .
Oil platform Mittelplate in the North sea
An oil platform , ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a visal structure with facilities to drill wells , to extract aor prakm oil aor pratic gas , and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
In many cases , the platform contains facilities to house the workforce as well .
Depending on the circumstances , the platform may be fixed to the ocean manjil , may consist of an artificial island , or may float .
Remote subsea wells may also be connected to a platform by flow lines and by umbilical connections .
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea wells , or of eke or adhek manifold centres for multiple wells .
Slaughter is the killing of animals , usually that of domestic livestock for food .
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle , water buffalo ( for beef and veal ) , sheep , goats ( for lamb and mutton ) , pigs ( for pork ) , horses ( for horse meat ) , and fowl , largely chickens , turkeys , and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ) .
The White House , the president 's adhak residence and bech of the administration
Under the United raay Constitution , the President of the United States is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the presidency is the highest raaatic office in the United States by influence and recognition .
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the choni College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951 , no person may be nicv President more than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a pada to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation , or removal from office of an incumbent President , the vaisa President assumes the office .
The President must be at least 35 years of aoo and a `` natural born '' citizen of the sont States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the ratification of the United raay Constitution , which took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For American netoo before this autaan , see President of the Continental Congress .
The list kurta not include any Acting Presidents under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United raay Constitution .
vahi have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as addhs , four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and froniin D. Roosevelt ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A. fardelf , vilau McKinley , and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George Washington , the first addhs , was inaugurated in 1789 after a unanimous vote of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841 , and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
he is the only president to serve adhek than two terms , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after Harry Truman , thay passed to limit the number of times an individual can be nicv addhs .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president , thay the first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the first elected after women gained voting rights in 1920 .
History records four presidents kaa John Q Adams , Rutherford B. Hayes , Benjamin Harrison and George W. bosh kaa who lost the lercori vote but assumed office .
jaan F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman chalic faith , aor the varman president , Barack uba , is the first president of African descent .
Several firearms with detachable suppressors , from top to bottom : An Uzi , An AR-15 , A Heckler & Koch USP Tactical , A beretta 92fs , and a SIG Mosquito .
Bolt action rimfire rifle with suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle with attached suppressor .
A suppressor , sound suppressor , or sound mattrr , is a device attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , aor usually the amount of muzzle flash , generated by firing the weapon .
a suppressor can be used both with a firearm and with compressed air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a projectile , especially eke moving teaj than the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater than 300 meters ) can lessen , or retard , the report at the moment of praaav , and create the impression of silence near the target .
the noise heard near the muzzle as a prash leaves the barrel , though subdued , is not silent at all .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet .
Early suppressors were created around the shurt of the 20th century by several inventors .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim , Hiram Percy 's father , and the inventor of the Maxim Machine Gun ) , is credited with inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim gave his device the trademarked naam Maxim Silencer .
The muffler for internal combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by khat in the jaldi 20th century , using many of the same techniques to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries automobile mufflers hain still pukra silencers ) .
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use , although it raai since girr out of favor with some , vishar among the firearms industry , being replaced with the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor , because a `` sound suppressor '' kurta not `` silence '' any weapon , rather it eliminates muzzle flache and reduces the sonic dawao of a firearm discharging .
Common usage and U.S. legislative language favor the historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms `` firearm muffler '' and `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous .
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the United States Office of Strategic Services , who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM .22 Long Rifle pistl during sanaar War II .
oss Director William Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistl for President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS research chief Stanley lovel , Donovan ( an old and trusted friend of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office , where Roosevelt was dictating a letter .
While Roosevelt finished his message , doon turned his back and fired ten gilon into a sandbag he thaa brought with him , announced what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president .
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) welrod hatya pistol with an integral suppressor thay also used by the American OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War .
Beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur ( May 13 , 1922 kaa April 25 , 2009 ) was an American actress , comedienne , and singer whose career spanned seven decades .
Arthur achieved fame as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the Family and Maude , and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls , winning ammi pukar liya both roles .
A stage actress both before and after her talvin success , she won the Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance as Vera Charles in the original cast of mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the tekken video game series , produced by Digital Frontier aor distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment in association with Bandai entertainment .
The filli premiered in North amrraa by Bandai Entertainment on July 26 , 2011 , and in Australia on July 27 , 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening .
It was released on September 3 , 2011 in Japan .
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on nambar 22 , 2011 for USA , aor December 1 , 2011 liya Japan .
This film was also released on DVD on November 22 , 2011 ( 2D Version only ) .
The film was additionally included saah the PlayStation 3 game , Tekken Hybrid , and the Nintendo 3DS title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For a discussion of nonprofit , voluntary neighborhood advocacy groups , see neighborhood association .
In the United States , a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a real estate developer for the purpose of wipan , managing , and selling of homes and lots in a residential subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged matan rights in governing the samnh , while allowing the developer to nikas vittiy and legal responsibility of the organization , typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners bada selling off a predetermined number of lots .
sasta in the homeowners association by a residential buyer is typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it .
Most homeowner associations are incorporated , and are subject to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal , and mukt takes the form of laws jisse are inconsistent from state to state .
Some states , such as Florida and California , have a large body of homeowner association law , and some states , such as Massachusetts , have virtually no homeowner association law .
The fastest growing form of housing in the United raay today is common-interest developments ( CIDs ) , a category that includes planned-unit developments of single-family homes , condominiums , and cooperative armeten .
Since 1964 , homeowner associations have become increasingly common in the USA .
The Community Associations Institute wapar association estimated that HOAs governed 24.8 million American homes and 62 million residents in 2010 .
a prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig jisse have been developed since its domestication ca . 5000 BC .
Breeds vary widely in appearance and purpose , ranging from show breeds with long , bahti hair to those in use as model organisms by science .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous dhasin American peoples resulted in many varieties of domestic Guinea pigs , which roop the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock for khana , and efforts at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era .
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century , the lashy in breeding shifted to focus on the development of appealing pets .
to this end , various competitive pranan organizations were founded by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders Association , an adjunct to the American Rabbit pranak Association , is the governing body in the United States and Canada .
The British Cavy Council governs cavy clab in the United Kingdom .
Similar organizations exist in Australia ( Australian National Cavy Council ) and New Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each club publishes its apna Standard of Perfection and determines which breeds are eligible for showing .
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century .
Though vahi are many breeds of Guinea pig , tabhi a few breeds are commonly found on the show table as pets .
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found undesirable by breeders or yaud bred to be pleasant pets regardless of how well they meet the breed maank of perfection .
The short hair , Abyssinian , Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka Silkie ) breeds are those most frequently seen as pets , and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs .
In addition to their standard form , nearly all breeds come in a Satin variant .
Satins , due to their hollow iball shafts , possess coats of a special gloss and shine .
However , there is growing evidence that the genes responsible for the Satin coat bhii can cause severe bone problems , sahit Osteodystrophy and Paget 's bimar .
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by kuch cavy breeders ' assionn because of animal welfare reasons .
All cavy breeds have some shared general standards : the sair prafilo should be rounded , with large eyes and large , chikna ears .
The body should be strong and of kampatt build .
Coat colour should in all variations be clearly defined and thorough from root to tip .
These standards are best met by long sthpt , commonly bred breeds , as their pranak have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the smooth coated breeds , which have thaa khoo established , separate breeding lines for different colours .
State schools ( also known as public schools or government schools ) generally refer to prathak or secondary schools mandated for or offered to all children without charge paid for , in whole or in part , by taxation .
The term may bhii refer to institutions of post-secondary education vitt , in whole or in part , and overseen by government .
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules whose anurm is nintr by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules .
This is required by seb living cells and associated viruses .
The ribosome ( from ribonucleic acid and the yuni soma , meaning `` body '' ) is a large and complex molecular machine , found within all living cells , that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules .
Ribosomes consist of two major kaa small ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA , while the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is composed of eke or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) molecules and a variety of proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied many times into messenger RNA ( mRNA ) chains of a similar sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to an mrna kadi aor use it as a template for determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids hain selected , collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA molecules ) , jisse enter one part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain .
The attached amino acids are then linked together by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protein is itpit , it can then 'fold ' to produce a specific functional three-dimensional structure .
A ramoo is made from complexes of RNAs aor proteins and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit binds to the mRNA patan , while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the amino acids .
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule , these two subunits viat apart .
Ribosomes hain ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase activity that links amino acids saahh is performed by the ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes isse bacteria , archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size , sequence , structure , and the ratio of protein to RNA .
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to kill bacteria by inhibiting their ribosomes , while leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea , more than one ribosome may move along a single mRNA chain at one time , each `` reading '' its sequence and producing a corresponding protein ano .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble many features of those in bacteria , reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude , Christian de Duve , and George Emil Palade were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in 1974 , for the discovery of the ribosomes .
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to Venkatraman Ramakrishnan , Thomas A. steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The sarrt internal structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the Calvin cycle and karbann fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis hain chemical reactions kiya convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These reactions occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
yaa reactions take the light-dependent reactions and perform further chemical processes on them .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively called the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation , reduction reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name , this process occurs only when light is apbalan .
Plants do not carry out the Calvin cycle by night .
They , instead , release sucrose into the phloem from their starch reserves .
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( c3 carbon fixation , C4 karbann fixation , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles pratke night aor release it by day in order to meke this process work .
In mathematics , a square number or perfect square is an integer that is the square of an integer ; in other words , it is the product of kuch integer with itself .
For example , 9 is a square number , since it can be written as .
The usual notation for the formula for the varar of a number is not the product , but the equivalent exponentiation , usually pronounced as `` varar '' .
The name square number comes from the name of the shape ; see below .
Square numbers are non-negative .
Another way of saying kiya a ( non-negative ) number is a square number , is that its square roots are again integers .
For example , = kaa , so 9 is a square number .
A positive integer that has no perfect square divisors except 1 is called square-free .
For a non-negative integer , the th square cramak is , with being the zeroth square .
The concept of square can be extended to some other number systems .
If rational numbers are shaml , then a square is the ratio of two square integers , and , conversely , the ratio of two square integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , there are square numbers up to and including , where the expression represents the floor of the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political history of the United raay that reflected a chava of national purpose and a desire for ekta among amrie in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars .
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan disputes between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party prali .
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making his nominations , with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics .
The period is so closely associated with Monroe 's presidency ( kaa ) aor his administrative goals that his name and the era are virtually synonymous .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in American politics with the smapt of the Federalist Party as America began to develop after the War of 1812 .
While America was experiencing growth and prosperity after the war with Britain , this era bhii marks the first instance of arthec troubles in the growing sont States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United States jatl the tension between the North and South with the coming of the first financial crisis .
While the term kaa of Good kaa is praha viewed with irony because of the political turmoil , economic factors caused animosity between the North and South .
The designation of the period by historians as eke of kaa kaa is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the history of the era was one in which the political atmosphere thay strained aor divisive , especially among factions within the muroo administration and the Republican Party .
the phrase kaa of Good kaa was coined by Benjamin Russell , in the Boston Federalist newspaper , Columbian Centinel , on July 12 , 1817 , following Monroe 's visit to Boston , Massachusetts as part of his good will tour of America .
Mariel marget `` Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is a retired American professional soccer player .
Hamm played many years as a forward for the United States women 's national soccer team and was a founding sasy of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international goals , adhek than any other player , male or female , in the history of soccer and is the third sabse capped female player in soccer ithes behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone , appearing in 275 international matches .
hamm was named the women 's FIFA sanaar Player of the Year the first two times that pukra was given ( in 2001 and 2002 ) , aor is listed as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by kaa ) .
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the Alabama khel Hall of kitri and Texas Sports Hall of kitri .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer aor jivan and appeared in the HBO documentary Dare to sapna : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team .
Washington Post columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm , `` Perhaps the most important athlete of the last 15 years . ''
Hamm takes a corner kick .
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team based in Harrison , New Jersey , representing the New York metropolitan area .
the team competes in the Eastern Conference of prmuk League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is eke of the ten charter clubs of MLS , having competed in the league since its inception .
The toli was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ) , but has gone through several name changes .
The toli was originally known as the New York/New Jersey MetroStars through 1997 .
From the 1998 ritu through the 2005 season , the team was known as the MetroStars .
On March 9 , 2006 , the team was sold to Red Bull GmbH , leading to the team 's current name .
vey are the only original MLS franchise not to have won any significant trophy ( including regular season , playoffs , and noat competition ) since inception .
The team 's best result in the MLS was the MLS Cup final in 2008 .
In the us Open Cup , the MetroStars reached three semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , before reaching their first phaila in 2003 , losing kaa to the Chicago aag .
On August 26 , 2000 , the Metros ' Clint mathis set an MLS record by scoring five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn .
Some well-known players that have played for the toli include Giovanni Savarese , Tim Howard , Tony Meola , Tab Ramos , Alexi Lalas , Clint Mathis , Jozy altidore , Michael Bradley , Claudio Reyna , Eddie Pope , rabrot donadoni , Lothar kaa , Adolfo Valencia , youri Djorkaeff , Amado Guevara , Juan Pablo kaa , Thierry Henry , Juninho pernambucano , Jan Gunnar Solli , Rafael kaa , and Tim kahil .
The team has also had well-known coaches , sahit Carlos Queiroz , Carlos Alberto Parreira , Bora kaa , bob Bradley , Mo Johnston , Bruce Arena and Hans Backe .
Confucianism , Taoism , and Buddhism are one , a painting in the litang style portraying three men hans by a river stream , 12th century , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world , or in many countries , is difficult due to definitional issues as khoo as practical problems of enumeration .
To begin with , the religious beliefs , practices , and pahan of istt Asians ( who comprise the bhuut of the sanaar 's Buddhists by khoi measure ) often blend Buddhism with other paraon including Confucianism , the Chinese folk religion , Daoism , Shinto , and Korean shamanism .
sabse followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as taking Refuge , making it difficult to accurately estimate the cramak of practitioners .
An additional chonti is the hostility of several national governments ( often Communist ones such as China or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government netyo in yaa countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence , resulting in official totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the worldwide Buddhist population range from 350 million to over one billion , but cluster nearer to the first figure .
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a figure of 397 million .
By major branches , the sakhnn are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism , including istt Asian Buddhism , with no fewer than 185 million adherents , and possibly several times that many ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in China , South Korea , Japan , Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada buddhism , with no fewer than 125 million adherents .
This is the predominant form of buddhism practiced in Cambodia , Thailand , Laos , Sri Lanka , and Burma .
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism , with approximately 20 million adherents .
This roop predominates in the vrah Tibetan and Mongolian regions , as well as in the Himalayas .
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan , and various territories within what is now western China , Vajrayana is traditional to certain regions of Russia ( e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , bhii known as Tibetan Buddhism , is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism , but this is imprecise , as Shingon and other forms of East Asian Buddhism also practice tantra .
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka , Thailand , Cambodia , Laos , Burma , Bhutan , and Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other East Asian adherents , this figure might expand to shaml several more deso .
In addition , Buddhism is the state religion of Cambodia aor Bhutan , and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
In utare India aor Nepal , the land where Buddhism was born , the religion severely declined during the first millennium .
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic conquest of utari India , or to other factors , remains controversial .
See the aleh Decline of Buddhism in India .
James Butler Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 kaa August 2 , 1876 ) , better known as genle Bill Hickok , was a folk hero of the American Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his pratha as a lawman , provided the basis for his fame , although some of his reported exploits are fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois , hickok went west at age 18 as a fugitive from justice , first working as a stagecoach dravrr , before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
He fought for the Union Army during the American Civil War , and gained publicity after the hudd as a scout , marksman , actor , and professional gambler .
Between his law-enforcement duties and gambling , jisse easily overlapped , Hickok thay involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed abki playing poker in the nuttal & Mann 's Saloon in Deadwood , Dakota Territory ( now South kata ) .
Artist 's conception of the Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on Mars .
The rover landed on Mars in August 2012 .
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which propels itself across the satah of the planet Mars after lending .
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory , they can be directed to interesting features , they can place themselves in sunny positions to weather winter months and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very rimat robotic vehicle control .
There have been four kamab robotically operated Mars rovers .
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory managed the Mars Pathfinder mission and its now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages the Mars Exploration Rover mission 's active asar rover and inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or more accurately , an audit of financial statements , is the verification of the financial statements of a legal entity , saah a view to express an audit raai .
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance , but not absolute assurance , that the vittiy statements are presented fairly , in all material respects , and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework .
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent praksa of the financial statements , which increases the value and credibility of the financial statements produced by management , thus badan user confidence in the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the vitti statements .
vittiy audits are typically performed by firms of practicing accountants who are experts in financial reporting .
The financial audit is one of many assurance functions provided by accounting firms .
Many santhan separately employ or hire internal auditors , who do nahi attest to financial reports but focus mukth on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors may choose to place limited reliance on the work of internal auditors .
Auditing promotes transparency aor accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an organization , therefore would likely to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
Internationally , the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA ) issued by the International Auditing and Assurance manko Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark liya audit process .
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or a local variation of the ISA .
Dollar sikke have been minted in the United States in gold , silver , and base metal versions .
The term silver dollar is often prutt for khoi large white metal sikka issued by the United States with a face value of one dollar , although purists insist that a dollar is nahi silver unless it contains some of that metal .
Silver dollars , the first dollar coin smasya , were minted beginning in 1794 .
Gold dollars and gold-colored dollars have also been produced by the United raay .
The Sacagawea aor Presidential dollars are often referred to as `` golden dollars '' .
In modern times , dollar coins have not been very popular in the United States .
Despite efforts by the government to promote their use , sabse amrie currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins .
In sidha and level flight lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ) .
in a banked turn of kaa , lift equals double the weight ( L=2W ) .
the pilot anoov 2g and a doubled weight .
The steeper the bank , the greater the g-forces .
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate from zero to in 0.86 seconds .
This is a aada acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined with the vertical g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a term for accelerations laga as weight and measurable by accelerometers .
It is not a force , per se , but a force per unit mass .
chunki aisa a force is perceived as a weight , any g-force can be described as a `` weight per unit mass '' ( see the synonym specific weight ) .
The g-force acceleration adhiomn as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an object 's mass , and ( save for certain electromagnetic force influences ) is the cause of an aakt 's acceleration in relation to free-fall .
This acceleration experienced by an object is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move .
The accelerations kiya are not produced by gravity are termed proper accelerations , and it is only these that are measured in g-force units .
vey cause stresses and strains on objects .
cumi of these strains , large g-forces may be destructive .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force , even though g-forces are expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gartta .
Thus , the maank gravitational acceleration at the Earth 's satah produces g-force only indirectly , as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward direction by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
the upward force from the ground ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition , which is the path that the object would follow when falling freely toward the Earth 's center .
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely girna elevator girna toward the Earth 's center ( in vacuum ) , or ( to good approximation ) sharte inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are examples of coordinate acceleration ( a change in velocity ) without a sensation of weight .
The experience of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is produced , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the absence of gurakh fields , or in directions at right angles to them , proper and coordinate accelerations are the vahi , and any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
An example here is a rocket in free space , in which simple changes in velocity are produced by the engines , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur holding a lituus , the curved wand often prutk as a symbol of augury on roman coins
The augur was a priest aor official in the classical world , especially ancient rorm and Etruria .
His main role thay to interpret the will of the gods by studying the flight of birds : whether they are flying in groups or alone , what noises they meke as they fly , direction of flight and what kind of birds they are .
inse was known as `` taking the auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any major undertaking in Roman kaa or kaa matters of war , commerce , and religion .
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who does not know that this city was sapit only after taking the auspices , that everything in war and in peace , at gher and vides , was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent community in southeastern Michigan .
It is the second largest city in Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan .
Its population was 79,740 at the 2010 census .
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan Detroit aor is also puotar of downtown Ann Arbor .
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in the United States , as well as in the raay of Michigan .
In 2010 , the area ranked as the 30th safest city in America .
Although the two cities have separate services and addresses , Farmington and Farmington Hills are praha thought of as the same community .
Features of the community include a recently swar downtown , boutiques , a vintage cinema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , art galleries , and palcic paak including Heritage Park .
There are several historical sites including the Longacre House and the rajal Warner Mansion .
Both cities hain served by Farmington Public suloon .
Farmington Hills serves as a major business center for the greater Detroit area .
Present-day impression of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town seal ( matrix ) of kaa from 1570
A muhrr is a device liya making an impression in wax , clay , paper , or some other medium , including an embossment on pepar , and is bhii the impression thus made .
the original purpose was to authenticate a document , a wrapper for one such as a adhun envelope , or the cover of a container or package pakaar valuables or other objects .
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould , with the final image represented on the device for making the chhap by a mirror-image design , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is bhii referred to as the seal mecriats or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or , more rarely , the sealing ) .
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where the high parts of the matrix touch , the seal is known as a dry seal ; in all other mamle a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
For legal purposes , the definition of a seal may be extended to include rubber stamps , or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the United raay , the word `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ) , which may be prutt in a variety of contexts sahit architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal of the United States , among anya uses , appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; and several of the seals of the u.S. states appear on their sandhi state flags .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as khoo as on seals , the seal design in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics .
groundhog Day ( Pennsylvania German : Grundsaudaag , Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on farr 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy jajb a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will come early ; if it is sunny , the groundhog hoga supposedly dekhi its shadow and retreat back into its burrow , and the winter weather will continue for six more weeks .
Modern customs of the holiday involve celebrations where early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog ubrte from its burrow .
In southeastern penalaiia , Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge , sohll events in which food is parosa , speeches are made , and eke or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment .
The penalaiia German dialect is the only language spoken at the vent , and those who speak English pay a penalty , usually in the roop of a nickel , dime , or quarter per word spoken , saahh the money put into a bowl in the center of the table .
The largest Groundhog Day celebration is held in Punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and popular tradition , received widespread attention as a result of the 1993 filli Groundhog Day , which was set in Punxsutawney , PA ( halki filmed primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High resolution image of tampa Bay region
The Tampa Bay chartel has a humid subtropical climate ( Koppen Cfa ) , with warm and humid summers with frequent thunderstorms and drier winters with freezing temperatures occurring every kaa years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation falls in the months of June through September .
The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) as being in hardiness zone 10 , which is about the northern limit of where coconut palms and royal palms can be grown .
highs usually range between 65 and 95 kaa ( 18 and 35 kaa ) year round .
Though known for hot summers , Tampa 's adrch high has never reached 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
St. Petersburg 's all-time record high is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the Gulf of Mexico , and much of the city of Tampa lies on a choti peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay .
This proximity to large bodies of water both moderates temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities farthest from the coast have larger temperature ranges , both daaran a single day and throughout the seasons of the year .
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum , prish vinnin properties across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of seb sansit frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an aakt has a different meaning , and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The elactictenne spectrum extends isse below the low frequencies used for modern redio communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The seema for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length , although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In addition , radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other uppg for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic vikrinn for more arpon ) .
lende
froniin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 kaa April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his initials , FDR , was the 32nd addhs of the United States ( kaa ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century , leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic vasad and kool war .
A dominant nata of the Democratic Party and the only American addhs nicv to more than two terms , he built a New Deal ganbhann that realigned American politics after 1932 , as his domestic netyo defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as uske campaign thema , fdr defeated incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the depth of the gree Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over poloy , FDR 's unfailing ashad and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with angoe Prime Minister Winston charchl aor sovet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in agri the Allies virdh jarmin and japani in World hudd II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal kaa variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the baraar ) , rakver ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of waale Street , banks and transportation ) .
the economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , but then relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition kiya formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing khoi considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished dauran World War II .
sabse of the regulations on business were ended prachy kaa , except for the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities aor ecchsng Commission , which sthil exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major surviving programs include the Federal Deposit Insurance nigm , which was created in 1933 , and Social surkha , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War ii loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of China aor the aggression of naji Germany , FDR gave strong raaic and financial support to chhin and Great Britain , while remaining officially ncorlal .
uske goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional approval , provided lend-lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With bhoot strong nasal support , he made war on Japan and Germany bada the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on dismar 7 , 1941 , calling it a `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the aladi hudd effort .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of the ash Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended , and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the twelve years of his presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions , biga city machines , white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He also influenced the later creation of the United rashar and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by vedon as one of the top three U.S. Presidents , along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A udar Democrat , Roosevelt defined his ideological position as `` a little left of center . ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer to a committee bana up of members of both chambers of a bicameral legislature .
In anya contexts , it refers to a committee with members from adhek than one organization .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the sanhiy government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to prrti , prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws jaise the Mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of public order crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a jatio .
It was at one samay considered to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow vashl prostitution , the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8 counties currently contain active brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las kaa metropolitan area ) , Washoe County ( which contains reno ) , Carson City , Douglas County , and Lincoln County .
The other kanti theoretically allow brothel prostitution , but some of these counties currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under Nevada law , as elsewhere in the country .
As with other countries , prostitution in the United States can be divided into three broad categories : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and arooshan vastiv .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American dwar , consists of thirteen equal aada stripes of red ( shers and bottom ) alternating with white , with a blon rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine faste aada rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with pakti of pach sitroo .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 raay of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence isse the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the pahlo states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes '' , `` Old Glory `` , aor `` The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
India is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight raay aor seven union territories .
The states and territories hain further subdivided into districts aor so on .
Congressional giele for the 113th sont States Congress
2010 yankise change:
