a  partly submerged glacier cave on Perito Moreno Glacier .
The ice facade  is  approximately 60  m  high
Ice formations in the Titlis glacier cave
A glacier cave is a cave  formed  within the ice of a glacier  .
Glacier caves are often called ice caves , but this term is properly  प्रयुक्त  to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice  .
In physics , circular motion is  a  movement  of  an object along the circumference of a circle or rotation along a circular path .
It can be uniform , with constant angular rate  of  rotation ( and  निरंतर  speed ) , or non-uniform  साथ  a changing rate of rotation .
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional body involves circular motion of its parts .
The equations of motion describe the movement of the center of mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion include  :  an artificial  उपग्रह  orbiting the Earth at constant height ,  a  stone which is tied to  a  rope and is  होने  swung in circles , a car turning through  a  curve in  a  race track , an electron moving  लम्बवत  to a uniform magnetic field , and  a  gear turning inside a mechanism .
Since the object 's  गति  vector is constantly changing direction , the moving object is undergoing acceleration by  a   अभिकेन्द्रीय   फ़ोर्स  in the direction of the center of rotation .
Without this acceleration , the object would move in a  सीधा  line , according to Newton 's  कानून  of motion .
Apollo Creed is a fictional character from the Rocky films , initially portrayed  as  the  undisputed  Heavyweight Champion of the  संसार  .
He was played by Carl Weathers .
Creed had multiple nicknames  ,  including The Master of Disaster , The  किंग  of Sting , The Dancing Destroyer , The Prince of Punch ,  the  One and Only  और  The Count of Monte Fisto  .
Urban legend states that Apollo Creed 's name is a wordplay on  the   रसूलों  ' Creed , a statement of belief used in Christian churches .
All of Apollo 's championship fights were scheduled for the 15  गोलाकार  distance .
चैंपियनशिप  fights  किया  not convert from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , and blue  trunks  ; Creed was the first man to wear them ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he  पहना  red  और  white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa  's  signature colors were black and gold—colors he used in the  नवीनतम  movie .
In the United States  ,  the title  of  federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the  संयुक्त  States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II  of  the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence and some aspects of whose  क्षेत्राधिकार   हैं  beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter ,  अधिनियमों  of  कॉंग्रेस  have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions  of  the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court  may  be categorized as a federal judge ;  ऐसे  positions include the Chief  इंसाफ  and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals , and district judges of  the  United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred  to  sometimes  as   ``  Article III judges '' because they exercise the  न्यायिक  power vested in the judicial branch of the federal government  by  Article III of the U.S.  संविधान  .
In addition , judges of the Court of International Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the  संघीय  courts , including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are  भी  sometimes referred to as  ``  federal judges '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , and their power  गर्भाशयी   इससे   आलेख  I instead .
See Article I  और  Article III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by  beretta  in Italy .
Production began in late 1984 , solely in  the  Beretta U.S.A. facility in  accokeek  , Maryland .
It is a further development of the Beretta Model 20 , whose production ended in  1985  .
परिवर्तनीय  Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to VUL )  is  a type of life  बीमे  that builds a cash value  .
In a VUL , the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of separate accounts ,  समान  to mutual funds  ,   और  the choice of which of  the  available separate accounts to  उपयोग  is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable  '  component in the name  refers  to this ability to invest in separate accounts whose values vary—they vary because  वे  are invested in  भण्डार  and/or bond markets .
The 'universal ' component in the name refers to the flexibility the owner has in  बनाना  premium payments  .
The premiums can vary from  nothing  in a given month  up  to maximums defined by the Internal Revenue Code for life  बीमे  .
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life  बीमे  that has fixed premium payments that typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise  an  Automatic Premium Loan feature ,  or  surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ) .
Variable universal life is  a  type of permanent  जीवन  insurance , because the death benefit will  be  paid if the insured dies any time as long as there is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy .
With most if not all VULs , unlike  पूरे   जीवन  ,  वहीँ  is no endowment age ( the age at which the cash value equals the death benefit amount ,  जिससे  for whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another key advantage of VUL over Whole  जीवन  .
With a typical whole life policy  ,  the  मौत  benefit is limited to the face amount specified in the policy  ,  and at endowment age , the face amount  is  all that is paid out .
Thus with either death or endowment , the insurance company keeps any cash value built up over the years  .
However , some participating whole life policies offer riders which specify that any dividends paid on  the  policy be  प्रयुक्त  to purchase `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over  समय  .
If investments made in the  पृथक  accounts out-perform the  सामान्य  account of the insurance company , a higher rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age , continually  increasing  death benefit , and if a high  rate-of-return  is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy , this could result in higher value to the owner or beneficiary than that of a  पूरे   जीवन  policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the  क्लासिक  wood stove adapted for set-up outdoors while still transferring the heat to interior buildings .
A mound of  लड़की  Scout cookies .
This mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by Girl Scouts of the USA ( GSUSA ) as one  of  its major fundraisers for local Scout  इकाई  .
Members of the GSUSA have  महरूम  selling cookies since 1917 to raise funds  .
Girls who  participate  can earn prizes for  उनके  efforts .
There are also unit incentives if  the  unit as a whole does well .
As  of  2007  ,  sales  यहूद  estimated at about 200 million boxes per year .
University Hall
Purdue University , located in West Lafayette , Indiana , is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University system .
Purdue  थी  founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a  land-grant  university when the Indiana General Assembly , taking  लाभ  of the Morrill Act ,  स्वीकृत  a donation of land and money  इससे  Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish  a  college of science , technology , and agriculture  in   उसके   नाम   .
the  first classes were held on  सितंबर  16 , 1874 , with six instructors  और  39 students .
Today  ,  Purdue is a  सदस्य   of  the Big Ten Conference , and is a well known  world-class  research institution .
Purdue enrolls  the  second largest student  देह   of  any university in Indiana  as  well as the fourth largest international student  जनसांख्यिकी  of any university in the United  राज्य  .
Purdue offers both undergraduate and  ग्रैजुएट  programs in over  211  major areas of study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also  महरूम  highly influential in America 's history of aviation , having established the  पहला  college credit offered in flight training  ,   the  first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation  ,  and the first  विश्वविद्यालयों  airport ( Purdue University Airport ) .
Purdue 's aviation technology program remains one of the most competitive  aviation-specific  programs in the world .
In  the  mid-20th century , Purdue 's aviation program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight  प्रौद्योगिकी  giving rise to Purdue 's  उपनाम  , Cradle of Astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to  become  astronauts , including Gus Grissom ( one of  the  original Mercury Seven astronauts  )  , Neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on the moon )  ,  and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
A sebaceous cyst (  )  is a term that loosely refers to either  epidermoid  cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts  (  also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because  an  epidermoid  गाँठ  originates in the epidermis and a  पिलर  cyst originates  इससे  hair follicles , by definition , neither type of cyst  is  strictly a sebaceous cyst .
The  नाम  is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty , white , semi-solid material in both of these cyst entities  is  not sebum , but keratin  .
Furthermore  ,  under  the   सूक्ष्मदर्शी  neither entity contains sebaceous glands .
In practice , however , the  शर्तें  are often used interchangeably .
``  सच्चा  '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and  हैं  known as steatocystomas or  ,  if multiple , as steatocystoma multiplex .
Modern pointe shoes  .
The edge of the toe pad , which is inserted between the foot and toe box for cushioning ,  can   be  seen  on   the  right foot .
A pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by ballet dancers when performing  pointe  work .
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have evolved to enable dancers to dance en pointe (  on  the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time  .
They are normally worn by female dancers ,  हालांकि   पुरूष  dancers may wear  उन्हें  for unorthodox roles such as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella , Bottom in A  midsummer  Night 's Dream , or men performing as women in dance companies  ऐसे  as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They are manufactured in a variety of colors , most  commonly  in shades of light  गुलाबी  .
This tablespoon has a capacity  of  about 15  ml  .
Measuring Spoons
In the US and parts  of   कनाडा  , a tablespoon is the largest  प्रकार  of spoon used for eating from a bowl .
In  the   uk  , Europe  और  most Commonwealth countries , a tablespoon  is  a type  of  large spoon usually used for serving .
In countries  जहाँ  a tablespoon is a serving spoon ,  the   निकटतम  equivalent to the US tablespoon is  either  the  मिठाई  spoon or the soup spoon .
a  tablespoonful , nominally the capacity of  एक  tablespoon , is commonly used as a measure of volume in cooking .
It is abbreviated as T , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by law and is subject to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is  लगभग  15 mL ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) ranges from 7  ml  to 14 mL .
In Australia one tablespoon (  मापन   ईकाई  ) is 20 mL .
Harry Potter is a  श्रेणी  of seven fantasy novels written by the British author  J.  K. Rowling .
the  books chronicle the adventures of a wizard , Harry Potter , and his friends Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger , all of  जिसको  are students at Hogwarts School of  चुड़ैल  and Wizardry .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort  ,  whose aims are to become immortal , conquer the wizarding world , subjugate non-magical  लोगों   ,  and destroy all those who stand in  उसके  way , especially  हैरी  Potter .
Since the release of the first novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone on 30 June 1997 , the books  have  gained immense popularity , critical acclaim and  वाणिज्यिक  success worldwide .
The series has also had some share of criticism , including concern for the increasingly  अंधेरा  tone .
, the book series has sold about 450 million copies  ,  making it the best-selling book series in history , and has been translated  into  67 languages .
The  पिछला  four books consecutively set records  as   the  fastest-selling books in history .
A series of many genres , including fantasy and coming of age ( with elements of mystery , thriller , adventure  ,  and romance ) , it  रै  many  सांस्कृतिक  meanings and references .
According to Rowling , the main theme  is  death .
There are also many other themes in  the  series , such as prejudice and corruption .
The initial major publishers  of  the books were Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States .
The books have since been published by many publishers  विश्वव्यापी  .
The books ,  साथ  the seventh book split  into  two parts  ,  have been made into an eight-part film series by Warner Bros. Pictures , the highest-grossing  फिल्मी  series  of  all time .
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise , making the Harry Potter brand  लायक  in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due  to  the success of the books and films , Harry Potter has  महरूम  used for a theme park , The Wizarding World of  हैरी  Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure .
RS-68 being tested at NASA 's Stennis Space Center .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this engine 's  exhaust  being mostly superheated steam  (  water vapor from its propellants  ,  hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5C rocket engine
A rocket engine , or simply `` rocket '' , is a jet engine that uses only stored propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet .
Rocket engines are reaction engines and  obtain  thrust in accordance with Newton 's third law  .
Since they need no external material to form their jet , rocket engines can be used for spacecraft propulsion as well as terrestrial uses , such as missiles .
Most rocket engines are internal  दहन  engines , although non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust velocities , are by far the  lightest  , but are the  तनिक  propellant efficient of all types of jet engines .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a song by American recording artist Britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut single and title track from her debut studio album , ...  baby  One  अधिक  Time  (  1999 ) .
Written by  अधिकतम  Martin and produced by Martin and Rami , `` ... Baby One More Time '' was released  on  September 30 , 1998 , by Jive Records .
After recording and sending  a  demo tape with an unused song from Toni Braxton  ,  Spears signed a  multi-album  deal with Jive .
``  ...  Baby One More Time ''  is  a teen pop and  dance-pop   सोंग  that refers to a girl who regrets breaking up  साथ   उसके  boyfriend .
The song received generally  अनुकूल  reviews from critics , who praised its composition .
`` ... Baby One  अधिक  Time '' attained global success , reaching number one in every country it charted .
It also received numerous certifications around the world , and is one of the best-selling singles of  सब  time , with  over   10  million copies sold .
An accompanying music video  ,  directed  by  Nigel Dick , portrays  स्पीयर्स  as a student  इससे  a Catholic high school , who starts to daydream that she is singing and dancing around the school , while watching her love interest from afar .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` (  2008  )  ,   जहाँ  Spears 's fictional daughter is dressed  साथ  a similar  schoolgirl  outfit while wearing pink ribbons in her hair .
in  2010 , the music video for `` ... Baby One More Time '' was voted the third most influential video in  the  history of pop music , in a poll held by  jam  ! .
Spears  रै  performed `` ... Baby One More Time  ''  in a number of live appearances  और  in all of her concert tours .
it  was the encore of the ... Baby One More Time Tour ( 1999 ) and Dream Within a Dream Tour (  2001  ) ; Spears  भी  performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , The Onyx Hotel Tour  (  2004 ) , The M+M 's Tour (  2007   )  , The Circus Starring Britney  स्पीयर्स  ( 2009  )  , and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 )  .
`` ...  baby  One  अधिक   समय  ''  थी   मनोनीत  for a Grammy  पुरस्कार  for Best Female  पॉप   गायन  Performance , and has been included in lists  by  Blender , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been noted for redefining the sound  of  late 1990s music .
Spears has named `` ... Baby One  अधिक  Time ''  as   एक   of  her favorite songs from her career .
It was also the final song to  be  played on the BBC 's music programme Top of the Pops .
Cholera is an infection in the small  आंत  caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae .
The main symptoms  हैं  watery diarrhea and vomiting .
Transmission  occurs  primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated  by  the feces ( waste product ) of an infected person  ,   सहित  one with no apparent symptoms .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can  सीसे  to  रैपिड  dehydration and electrolyte imbalance , and death in some cases .
The primary treatment is oral rehydration  चिकित्सा  , typically with oral rehydration solution , to replace  जल  and  इलेक्ट्रोलाइट्स  .
If this  is  not tolerated or does not  provide  improvement fast enough , intravenous fluids can also be  प्रयुक्त  .
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with  कठोर  disease to shorten its duration and severity .
Worldwide , it affects 3–5 million people and  कल्याणकारी  100,000–130,000 deaths a year .
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to  be  studied by epidemiological  विधि  .
The Picture of Dorian Gray  is  the only published novel by Oscar Wilde , appearing  as  the lead story  in  Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20  जून  1890 , printed as the July 1890 issue of this magazine .
the   पत्रिका  's editors feared the story was indecent as submitted , so they censored roughly 500 words , without Wilde 's knowledge , before publication .
But  भी  with  कि  , the story was still greeted with outrage by British reviewers , some of whom suggested that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds , leading Wilde to defend the  अनोखा  aggressively in letters to the British press .
Wilde later revised the story for book  प्रकाशन  , making substantial alterations ,  हटाना  controversial passages , adding new chapters and including an aphoristic Preface  जिससे  has since become famous in its own right .
The amended version was published by Ward , Lock and Company in April 1891 .
कुछ  scholars believe that Wilde would today have wanted us to read the version he originally  सुपुर्द  to Lippincott 's .
The novel tells of  a  young man named Dorian Gray ,  the  subject of a  पेंटिंग  by artist Basil Hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with him , believing his beauty is  जिम्मेदार  for a new mode in his art  .
डोरियन  meets Lord Henry Wotton , a friend of Basil  's  , and becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's world view  .
Espousing a  नई  hedonism ,  रब  Henry suggests the  तभी  things worth pursuing  in  life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses .
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to sell his soul  to  ensure the portrait Basil has painted would age rather than he  .
डोरियन  's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues  a  life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of the  प्रभाव  each act has upon  उसके  soul , with each sin displayed as  a  disfigurement of his form , or  through  a sign of aging .
The Picture of Dorian Gray  is  considered a work of classic Gothic fiction with a strong Faustian theme .
Sári Gábor  (  born 6 February 1917 ) , known  as  Zsa Zsa Gabor ( ) , is a Hungarian -born American actress who acted in supporting roles in movies , on Broadway  ,  and occasionally on television .
Gabor was also a socialite  .
She began her stage career in Vienna at age 15 , and was crowned Miss Hungary in 1936 .
वो  emigrated to the United States in 1941 and  became  a sought-after actress with `` European flair and style '' ,  साथ  a personality that `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her first movie role was as  supporting  actress in Lovely to Look At  .
She later acted in  we  're Not Married !
and played one of her few  अग्रणी  roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952  )  , directed by John Huston , who described her as a `` creditable ''  अभिनेत्री  .
Besides her film and television appearances  ,  she is best known for having nine husbands , including  होटल  magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders .
She once stated , `` Men have always liked  me  and I have always liked men .
लकिन  I  जैसे  a mannish man , a man who knows  कैसा  to talk to and treat a woman – not just a man with muscles . ''
Bruce Lee (  परंपरागत  : 李小龍 ; born Lee Jun-fan  ;  27 November 1940  –  20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese  अमरीकी  martial artist , actor , martial  कला  instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The founder of Jeet Kune Do , Lee was  the  son of Cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen .
he   is  widely considered by commentators , critics , media and other martial artists to be one of the  सबसे   influential  martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
he  is often credited  साथ  helping  to  change the way Asians were presented in American films .
Lee was born in Chinatown , San Francisco on 27 November 1940 to parents from Hong Kong and  थी  raised in Kowloon with his family until his  लेट  teens .
He was introduced to the film industry by his father and appeared in several films as a child actor .
ली  moved to the United States at the age of 18 to receive his higher education , and it was during this time that he began teaching martial arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood  -उपजd  films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts film to a new level of popularity and acclaim , sparking a surge of interest  in  Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s .
the  direction and tone of his films changed and influenced  martial  arts and martial arts films in Hong  काँग  and the rest of the world .
He  is  noted  लिये  his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist  of  Fury  (  1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon  (  1972 )  ,  directed and written by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 )  ,  both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the world , particularly among the  चाइनीज  , as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films  .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined martial art styles , favouring instead the use  of  techniques from various sources , in the spirit of his personal  martial  arts philosophy , which  he  dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the Intercepting Fist )  .
Lee held dual citizenship of Hong Kong and the United States .
he  died in Kowloon Tong on 20 July 1973 at age  32  .
Chronic obstructive  pulmonary  disease ( COPD ) , also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ) , chronic obstructive airway disease (  coad  )  ,  chronic airflow limitation ( CAL  )  and  दीर्घकालिक  obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD )  ,  is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis  or  emphysema  ,  a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time .
This limits airflow to and  इससे  the lungs , causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ) .
In clinical practice , COPD is defined by its characteristically low airflow on lung function tests .
In contrast to asthma  ,  this limitation is poorly reversible and usually gets progressively  बदतर  over time .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas , most commonly from tobacco smoking ,  जिससे  triggers an  असामान्य  inflammatory response in the  फेफड़ों  .
The  निदान  of COPD requires lung function tests .
Important management strategies are smoking cessation , vaccinations , rehabilitation , and drug therapy ( often using inhalers ) .
Some patients go on to require long-term oxygen therapy or lung transplantation  .
Worldwide  ,  COPD ranked as the sixth  अग्रणी  cause of death in 1990 .
It is projected to become  the  fourth leading cause of death worldwide by 2030 , due to an increase in smoking rates and  जनसांख्यिकी   परिवर्तन  in many  देशों  .
copd  is the  तीसरा   अग्रणी  cause of death in the U.S. , and the economic burden of COPD in  the  U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and lost productivity  .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ; 12 June 1929early March  1945  ) is one of the most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust .
Her diary has been  the  basis for several plays and  films  .
Born  in  the city of Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany , she lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam  ,  in the Netherlands .
Born a German national , Frank lost her citizenship in  1941  .
वो  gained international fame posthumously after her  डायरी  was  प्रकाशित  .
It documents her experiences hiding during the German  occupation  of the Netherlands in World War II .
The Frank family moved from Germany to Amsterdam in 1933 , the year the Nazis gained control  over   जर्मनी  .
by  the beginning  of  1940 , they were trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands .
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in  जुलाई  1942 , the family went into  छुपाना  in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
After  दो  years , the group was betrayed and transported to concentration camps .
Anne Frank and her sister , Margot , were eventually transferred to the  bergen-belsen  concentration camp , where  वे  died of  सन्निपात  in March 1945 .
Otto Frank , the only survivor of the family , returned to Amsterdam after the war to find that Anne 's diary had been saved , and his efforts led to its publication in 1947 .
It  थी  translated  इससे  its original Dutch and first published in English in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl .
It has since been translated into many languages .
The diary , which was given to Anne on her 13th birthday , chronicles her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944  .
Kurt 's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 – April 5 , 1994 ) was an American musician and artist ,  बेहतरीन  known as  the  lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band  निर्वाण   .
Cobain formed  निर्वाण  with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen  ,  Washington in 1985  और  established it as part of the Seattle music scene , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in  1989  .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the  बैंड  found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from  इसके  second album Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind  ,  Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation  x  , and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated  ,  believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted  by   the  public , with his personal issues often subject to media attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During  the  last years of his life , Cobain  struggled  with heroin addiction , illness and  अवसाद  .
He also had difficulty  coping  with his fame and public image , and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and  उसके  wife , musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle , the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by  a  self-inflicted shotgun wound to the  सिर  .
The circumstances of his death at  आयु  27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana ,  साथ  Cobain as a songwriter , has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide  .
रेडियल  engine timing and cam mechanism .
Click for  पूरा  resolution animation .
Radial engine  of  a biplane
Master rod ( upright  )  , slaves and balances from a two-row , fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating type internal combustion engine configuration in which the cylinders point  outward  from a central crankshaft like the spokes of  a  wheel .
It resembles a stylized star when  viewed  from the front , and is called a  ``  star engine '' (  जर्मनी  Sternmotor ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very  commonly  used in aircraft  इंजन  before turbine engines became predominant .
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom , created by Susan Harris  ,  that originally aired on NBC  इससे  September 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
Starring Bea Arthur ,  बेट्टी   श्वेत  , Rue  mcclanahan  and Estelle Getty , the show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami  ,  Florida  .
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris Productions , in association with Touchstone Television , and Paul Junger Witt , Tony Thomas ,  और  Harris served as the original executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most  of  its run and won  अनेक  awards , including the Primetime  एमी  Award for Outstanding Comedy Series twice .
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for Best  टेलीविज़न  Series – Musical or Comedy .
All four stars each received an Emmy Award throughout the  श्रेणी   '  run and had multiple nominations .
The series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated programs for six out  of   इसके  seven seasons .
Deepwater drilling is the process of oil and gas exploration and production in depths of more than 500 feet .
By this definition  ,   वहीँ   हैं  approximately 600 deepwater wells  in  the Gulf of  मैक्सिको  .
It  रै  been economically infeasible for many years , but with rising oil prices  ,  more companies are investing in this area  .
Major companies working in this sector include Diamond  offshore  , TransOcean , and Baker Hughes .
वहीँ  are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling  rigs  : semi-submersible drilling rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform .
Recent industry analysis has estimated that the total expenditure in the global deepwater infrastructure market  होगा  reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
“Not all oil is accessible on  जमीन  or in shallow water .
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean floor.” ... Using sonic equipment , oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely  to  produce oil .
Then they use a mobile offshore drilling  ईकाई  ( MODU ) to dig the initial well .
कुछ  units are converted into production rigs , meaning they switch from drilling for oil to  capturing  oil once it 's found .
Most of the time  ,  the  आयल   कम्पनी  will replace  the  MODU with  a  more permanent oil production rig to capture  oil.”  ...  the   मोदू  's job is to drill  bas  into  the  ocean 's floor to find oil deposits .
The part  of  the drill that extends below the deck and through the water  is  called the riser .
The riser allows for drilling fluids to  मूव   between  the floor and the rig .
Engineers lower a drill string -- a series of pipes designed to drill down to the oil deposit -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of deepwater drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... ”
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing  11  workers and spilling millions of  गैलन  of oil into the Gulf of  मैक्सिको  while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
“ ...  despite  the risks  ,   the  deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of such  खुदाई   ,  analyst say  ,  is continuing high demand for energy worldwide.”
अमेरिका  needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the high risks that come with deepwater  खुदाई  in order for Americans to continue to carry on their  रोज  lives .
“The Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil production would expand from its  2011  level of 1.3 million barrels a day  ,  still nearly a quarter of total domestic production , to 2 million  barrels  a day by 2020.”
Deepwater drilling affects the environment in  दोनो  negative and positive ways .
हालांकि  Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil spills it is still a hazardous possible outcome .
Oil spills result in  आयल  sinking to the bottom of the ocean smothering plant life leaving fish without food and shelter to survive .
On the other hand deepwater drilling effects the environment in a positive ways too .
In time once the deepwater oil well is not in use  anymore   पौधे  will grow on and around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in .
deepwater  drilling also lets  us  see the depths of the ocean floor that are hardly ever seen .
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take  फ़ोटो  of rare  मछली  that are in there natural habitat  ,  giving scientist a look at  पशु  they rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ) .  ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President Bill  क्लिंटन   admitted   to   having  had an `` improper  संबंध  '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions ( which included Clinton 's impeachment )  became  known as  the  Lewinsky scandal .
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra , , ( December 12 , 1915 – May 14 , 1998 ) was an American singer and film  कर्ता  .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey , Sinatra found unprecedented success as a solo artist from the early to mid-1940s after  होने   हस्ताक्षरित  to Columbia Records in 1943 .
Being the idol of the `` bobby  soxers  `` , he released his first album , The Voice of Frank Sinatra in  1946  .
His professional career  था  stalled by the 1950s , but it was reborn in 1953 after he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol  रिकॉर्ड   in  1953 and released several  critically  lauded albums ( such  as  In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for Swingin '  प्रेमियों  ! , Come Fly with  me  , Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ) .
Sinatra left  कैपिटल  to found his own record  लेबल  , Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success  साथ  albums such  as   ring-a-ding-ding  ! , Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim  )  , toured internationally , was a founding member of the  चूहा  Pack  और  fraternized with celebrities  और  statesmen , including  जॉन  F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in  1965  , recorded the retrospective September of My Years , starred in the Emmy -winning television special Frank Sinatra : A Man and His Music , and scored  हिट्स  with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way  ``  .
With sales of his  म्यूज़िक  dwindling and after appearing in  अनेक   poorly  received films , Sinatra retired for the first time in 1971 .
Two years later  ,  however , he  आए  out  of  retirement and in 1973 recorded several albums , scoring a Top 40  hit  with `` ( Theme  इससे  ) New York , New  यॉर्क  ``  in  1980 .
Using  उसके   लास  Vegas shows as a home base ,  he  toured both within the United States and internationally , until a  छोटी  time before his death in 1998  .
Sinatra also forged  a  highly successful career as a film actor .
After  जीतना   बेहतरीन  Supporting Actor  in  1953 , he also  garnered  a nomination for Best Actor for The Man with the  सुनहरी  Arm , and critical  acclaim  for his performance in The Manchurian Candidate .
He also  स्ट्रक्चर  in such musicals as High Society ,  pal  Joey , Guys  और  Dolls and On the Town .
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985  और  the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997 .
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards , including the Grammy  trustees   पुरस्कार   ,   ग्रैमी  Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award .
Sinatra is also one  of  world’s best-selling artists of  सब  time , having sold more than 150 million copies worldwide .
Typical cornhole board
Cornhole , also known as bean bag toss , corn toss , baggo or bags , is a  लॉन   खेल  in which players take turns throwing corn hole  बैग   at   a  raised platform with a hole in the far end .
A bag in the hole scores 3 points , while one on the platform scores 1 point .
Play continues until a team or player reaches the score of 21 .
The American Gold  त्रिभुज  is an official gold bullion coin of the United States .
Authorized under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was  पहला  released by  the  United States Mint in  1986  .
Bikram  योग  is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury  synthesized   इससे  traditional hatha  योग  techniques and popularized beginning in the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes run  लिये  90 minutes and consist of the same series of  26  postures and  2  breathing exercises .
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a room heated to 105°F ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a humidity of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael  massey  ( born 26 January 1990 )  is  an American actor , comedian and rapper best known for starring as Michael Barret in Nickelodeon television series  zoey  101 .
Massey  रै  received many awards  और  nomination including a Young Artist  पुरस्कार  and Emmy Awards nominations .
He is also known for appearing in several commercials in the  जल्दी  2000s .
A conventional teaspoon made of stainless steel .
A teaspoon is an  मद  of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument  ,  as well as a unit of  मापन   of  volume in some countries and  कस्टम   .
A fern is any one or more of a group of about 12,000 species of plants belonging to the botanical  समूह  known as Pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , they have xylem and phloem  (  making  उन्हें  vascular plants ) .
They have stems ,  पत्ते  , and roots like other vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via spores and have neither seeds  nor  flowers .
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , but ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include horsetails , whisk  ferns  , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte  भी  refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular plants ( see classification section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360  लाख  years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the current  परिवारों  and species did not appear until roughly 145 million years ago in  the  early  cretaceous  ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance , but some are grown or gathered for food , as ornamental plants , for remediating contaminated soils , and have been the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
Some are significant weeds .
They also play a role in mythology , medicine , and art .
Flat roofs in Israel
Flat roof in Los Angeles
A flat roof is a type of covering for  a  building .
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a flat roof is horizontal or nearly horizontal  .
The  ढलान  of a roof is properly  ज्ञात  as its pitch : Roofs which are nearly flat are known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases , so the pitch is  कहा  to increase ) .
Any sheet of  सामग्री  used to cover a flat or  low-pitched  roof is usually  ज्ञात  as a membrane and the primary purpose  of  these membranes is  to  waterproof the roof area .
Materials that cover flat roofs typically  allow   the  water  to  run off from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system .
Water from some flat roofs such as  on  garden sheds sometimes flows freely off the edge of  a  roof , though gutter systems are of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water directly onto the ground , or better  ,  into a specially made soakaway .
Gutters on larger roofs  प्रायः   सीसे  water into the rainwater drainage system of any built up area .
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect water in a pool , usually for aesthetic purposes , or for rainwater buffering .
Flat  roofs   मौजूद   सब  over the world and  प्रत्येक  area  रै  its own tradition or preference for materials used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and freezing  is  unlikely to occur ,  अनेक  flat  roofs  are simply built of  चिनाई  or concrete and this is  शुभ  at keeping out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas where the roof could become saturated by rain and  लीक  ,  or  where water soaked into  the  brickwork  could  freeze  to  ice and thus lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the  mortar/brickwork/concrete  by  the   विस्तार   of  ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
Traditionally most flat roofs in the western world make use  of  tar or more usually tar paper applied  over   छत  decking to keep a building watertight  .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in  बजरी  to keep the sun  's  heat , UV rays and weather off it and helps protect  it  from cracking or blistering and degradation .
Roof decking is  प्रायः  of plywood  ,  chipboard or OSB  फलक  ( OSB =  उन्मुख  Strand Board , also known as Sterling board ) of  around  18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a  hot  liquid , heated in a tar kettle , or as sheets of  तारकोल  impregnated 'paper ' glued down  और  sealed  साथ  at joints by hot tar - once it has cooled , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance where people or events cause  the  gravel to be moved or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing , thus  exposing  it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually  जल  gets in .
Tarpaper is  प्रायः  a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tar  .
As gravel  can  not protect tarpaper surfaces  जहाँ  they rise vertically from the roof such as on parapet walls or upstands ,  tarpaper  variants are produced with fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture  ऐसे  that a permanent layer of gravel is  stuck  to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship and training  of  those applying it to produce more or less  कामयाब  results .
In  कुछ  micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the  लागत  of materials purchase and cost of laying them , however the cost of modern membranes such as EPDM has come down over recent years to make them more and more affordable .
There are now more firms  supplying  modern alternatives and there  is  generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability .
If a  लीक  does occur on a flat roof then  क्षति  often goes unnoticed for long periods of time during which water penetrates and soaks the decking and any insulation and/or structure beneath  it  .
This  can  lead to expensive  क्षति  from the rot which often develops and if left can weaken the roof structure .
There are also various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould spores :  the  severity of  इस  health risk remains a debated  पाइंट  .
One  प्रॉब्लम  with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a  आधुनिक  membrane ) it can travel a long way  पहले  causing visible  क्षति  or leaking into a building where it can be seen .
Thus it is not easy to see where it is leaking in order to repair it .
एकबार  underlying  छत  decking is soaked it often sags causing a further collection or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens .
a  CD-ROM ( )  is  a  pre-pressed  compact disc which contains  आंकड़ा  .
The name is an acronym which stands for `` Compact Disc Read-only memory `` .
Computers can read CD-ROMs , but can not write on them  .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software  ,  including  वीडियो  games and multimedia applications , though any data can be stored ( up to  the  capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called  उन्नत  CDs , hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being  निभाई   on   a  CD player , while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO  9660  format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is the technical standard that defines the format of CD-ROMs  .
One of  a  set  of  color-bound books  कि  contain the technical specifications  लिये  all CD formats , the Yellow Book , created by Sony and Philips , was the first extension of Compact  डिस्क  Digital Audio .
It adapted the format to hold  कोई  form of data  .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born  31  July 1965 )  ,  pen name  J.  K. Rowling , is a British novelist  ,  best known as the author of the Harry Potter fantasy series .
The Potter books have gained worldwide attention , won multiple awards , and sold  अधिक  than 400 million copies  .
They have become the best-selling book series  in  history , and been the basis for a series of films which has become  the  highest-grossing film series  in  history .
Rowling had overall approval on the scripts as well as  maintaining  creative control by serving as a producer  on  the final instalment .
Born  in  Yate , Gloucestershire , Rowling was working as a researcher and bilingual secretary for Amnesty International when she conceived the idea for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London  in   1990  .
The seven-year period  कि   followed  entailed the death of her mother , divorce from her first husband and poverty until Rowling finished the first novel in  the  series , Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's  स्टोन  ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 sequels—the last , Harry Potter and  the  Deathly Hallows ( 2007  )  —as well as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , Rowling parted with her agency and resumed writing in the form of  a  tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership ,  हकदार  The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling  रै  said she is currently working on  दो   books—one   aimed  for  वयस्कों  , the other for children younger than the Harry Potter audience  ,  and she expects the  latter   to  be published first  .
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story , in which she progressed from living on state benefits to multi-millionaire status  भीतर  five years .
She is the United  किंगडम  's best-selling author since records  began  , with sales in excess of £238m .
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling 's fortune at £560 million ( $ 798 million )  ,  ranking her as the twelfth richest  स्त्री  in the United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007 , and TIME magazine named her as a runner-up for its  2007  Person of  the  Year , noting the social , moral , and political inspiration she has  दिए  her fans .
In October 2010 , Rowling was named the ``  सबसे  Influential  स्त्री  in Britain '' by leading magazine editors .
She  रै  become a notable philanthropist , supporting such  धर्मार्थ  as Comic Relief ,  एक  Parent Families , Multiple Sclerosis Society of  ग्रेट  Britain and  lumos  ( formerly the Children 's  ऊँची  Level Group  )  .
Auburndale is a city in Polk County , Florida ,  संयुक्त  States .
The population was 11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to  the  U.S Census estimates of 2005 , the city had a population of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland – Winter Haven Metropolitan Statistical Area .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit during Expedition 7 of the International Space Station .
the  eye ,  eyewall  , and surrounding rainbands , characteristics of tropical cyclones , are clearly visible  in  this view from space .
A tropical cyclone is  a  storm system characterized by a low-pressure center  घिरी  by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy  बरसात  .
Tropical cyclones strengthen when  जल  evaporated from the ocean is released as the saturated air rises  ,  resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the moist  एयर  .
वे  are fueled by a different heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters ,  यूरोपीय  windstorms , and polar lows .
the   characteristic  that separates tropical cyclones from other cyclonic systems is that at any height  in  the atmosphere  ,  the center of a tropical cyclone  होगा  be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin  of  these systems , which usually form in tropical  regions  of  the  globe ,  और  to their formation in  मेरीटाइम  tropical air masses .
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms  '   cyclonic  nature , with counterclockwise wind flow in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow  in  the Southern Hemisphere  .
The opposite direction of the wind flow is a result of the Coriolis  फ़ोर्स  .
Depending on its location and strength  ,   a  tropical cyclone  is  referred to by names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm , cyclonic storm , tropical depression , and simply cyclone .
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely  शक्तिशाली  winds and torrential rain , they  हैं  also able to produce high waves , damaging  तूफ़ान  surge , and tornadoes  .
They develop over large bodies of warm water  ,  and  खोना  their strength  if  they move over land  due  to increased surface friction and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source .
This is why coastal regions can receive significant damage from a tropical cyclone ,  जबकि  inland  regions  are relatively safe from receiving strong winds  .
Heavy rains , however , can produce significant flooding  अंतर्देशीय  , and storm surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to from the coastline .
Although their effects on human populations can be devastating , tropical cyclones can relieve drought conditions .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it  toward  temperate  latitudes  , which makes them an important part of the global atmospheric circulation mechanism .
As a result ,  तीव्र  cyclones help to  maintain  equilibrium in the Earth 's  क्षोभमण्डल   ,  and to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide  .
अनेक  tropical cyclones develop when the atmospheric conditions around a  कमजोर  disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable .
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles and patterns such as the Madden-Julian oscillation , El Niño-Southern Oscillation , and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation .
Others  रूप  when other  प्रकार  of cyclones acquire tropical  विशेषताएँ  .
Tropical systems are then moved by steering winds in the troposphere ; if  the  conditions remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the  अन्य  end of  the  spectrum , if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tropical cyclone makes landfall , the system weakens and eventually dissipates .
It is not possible to  artificially   induce   the   dissipation  of these systems with current  प्रौद्योगिकी  .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; December 9 ,  1916  ) is an American stage and film actor , film producer  और  author  .
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ) , Champion ( 1949 ) , Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ) , The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000  लीग   अंतर्गत   the  Sea ( 1954 ) , Lust for Life ( 1956 ) , Paths of Glory (  1957  ) , Gunfight at the O.K .  corral  ( 1957 ) , The Vikings ( 1958 ) , Spartacus ( 1960 ) , Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ) ,  सात  Days in May (  1964  ) , The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough  यारों  ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the  अमरीकी  Film Institute 's list of the greatest male  अमरीकी  screen legends of all time , making him the highest-ranked  जीना   व्यक्ति  on the list .
In 1996 , he received the Academy Honorary Award `` for 50 years as a creative and moral force in  the  motion picture community . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from Hollywood 's `` golden age '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger  (   born  May  6  , 1945 )  is  an American rock and roll singer-songwriter , guitarist and pianist .
As a locally successful Detroit-area  कलाकार  , he performed and recorded as Bob Seger and the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s .
By the  जल्दी  1970s , he had dropped the `` System '' from  उसके  recordings and continued to strive  लिये  broader success with other various bands .
In  1973  , he put  साथ  The Silver Bullet Band , a group of Detroit-area musicians  ,   साथ  whom he became most successful  on  the national level with the album Live Bullet  ,  recorded live with the Silver Bullet Band  in  1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit  ,   मिशिगन  .
In 1976  ,  he achieved a national breakout with the studio album  रात्रि   चालें  .
On his studio albums , he also worked  extensively  with the Alabama-based Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section , which appeared  on  several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with  a  classic raspy , shouting voice , Seger wrote and recorded songs  कि  dealt with love , women  ,  blue-collar themes and  थी  an exemplar of heartland rock .
seger  has recorded many hits , including ``  रात्रि  Moves , '' `` Turn the  पेज  , '' `` We 've Got Tonight , '' `` Against the  हवा  , '' and Shakedown  कि  was  लिखा  for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like a Rock , '' and also co-wrote  the  Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic recording of  ``  Old Time Rock  और  Roll `` was named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning five decades , Seger continues to perform and record today .
Seger was inducted into the  चट्टान  and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 and the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012 .
रिचर्ड  Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913  –  April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States , serving from 1969 to 1974 , when  he  became the only president to resign  the  office .
Nixon had previously served  as  a Republican U.S.  प्रतिनिधि  and senator from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
निक्सन  was born in Yorba Linda , California .
He graduated from Whittier College  in  1934  और  Duke University School of Law in 1937 , returning to California to practice law .
He and his wife , Pat Nixon ,  स्थानांतरित  to  वॉशिंगटन  to work for the federal  सरकारी  in 1942 .
He subsequently served in the United States Navy during World War II .
Nixon was elected in California to  the  House of Representatives  in  1946 and to the Senate in  1950  .
उसके   pursuit  of the  alger   hiss  case  स्थापित  his  प्रतिष्ठा  as a leading anti-communist , and  elevated  him to national prominence  .
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower , the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952  चुनाव  .
Nixon served for eight years as vice president .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960 , narrowly  खोने  to John F.  कैनेडी  , and lost a  रेस  for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968  ,   he   भागा  again for the  प्रेसिडेंसी  and was elected .
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently  ended  U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People  's  Republic of  चीन  in 1972 opened  राजनयिक  relations between the two nations , and he initiated détente and  the   anti-ballistic   मिसाइल  Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
domestically  , his administration generally embraced policies that transferred power from Washington to the states .
Among  अन्य  things , he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs , imposed wage and price controls , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools , and established the Environmental Protection  एजेंसी  .
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning with  अपोलो  11 , he scaled back manned space exploration .
He was re-elected by a landslide in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term  देखी  an Arab oil embargo ,  the   इस्तीफा  of his vice president , Spiro Agnew  ,  and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by  सदस्यों  of the administration .
the  scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support  ,  and on August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
After his  इस्तीफा  ,  he  controversially received a pardon issued by his successor , Gerald Ford .
In retirement , Nixon 's work as an elder statesman , authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18 , 1994 , and died four days later  at  the age  of  81 .
{ {  infobox  Senator
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused bitter  contention  between President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
Brady 1869 ] ]
sen.  Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would  सीसे  to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of Haiti , became  कायल  that corruption  lay  behind the treaty , and that men close to the president shared in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , Sen. Sumner initially withheld his opinion on the treaty on January 18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from Assistant Secretary  of  State , Bancroft Davis , that U.S . Naval ships were being used to protect President Báez .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen.  sumner’s  suggestion and quite  संभवतः  to save the party from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment , the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session .
President  ग्रान्ट  persisted and sent messages to  कॉंग्रेस   in  favor of annexation on  कूच   14  , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out  विरूद्ध  the treaty ; warnng that there would be difficulty with the foreign nationals , noting the chronic rebellion that  took  place on the island , and the risk that the independence of Haiti , recognized by the United States  in  1862 , would be lost  .
Sumner stated that Grant 's  उपयोग  of the  u.S.  Navy as a protectorate  थी  a violation of International law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 , 1870 the treaty was voted on by the Senate and failed to gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty  ड्योढ़ी  .
The following day  ,  President Grant , feeling  गद्दारी  by Sen. Sumner , retaliated by ordering  the  dismissal  of  Sumner’s close friend J. Lothrop Motley , Ambassador to Britain .
By autumn , Sumner 's personal hostility to  the  president  थी  public knowledge , and  he  blamed the Secretary of State  लिये  failing to have resigned , rather than let Grant have his way  .
The two men , friends until then , cooled into bitter enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to acquire  सेंटो  Domingo somehow ,  sumner  gave a fiercely critical speech accusing the president of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary  of  State Hamilton Fish , had initiated a campaign to depose  sumner  from  the  chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee  .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '' ,  in  addition to having  रोका  Grant 's Dominican Republic  सन्धि  attempt , Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act ,  अवरोधित  Grant 's nomination of Alexander Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury , and been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go .
Grant  resented  Sumner 's superiority of manner , as well .
Told once that Sumner did not believe in the  बाइबल  , the president is supposed to have said that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it . ''
As the rift between Grant and Sumner  increased  , Sumner’s health began to decline .
जब  the  42nd  U.S. Congress convened on March  4  ,  1871  , Senators affiliated with President Grant , known as ‘’New Radicals’’ voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate  विदेशी  Relations Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics  )  is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment .
It  applies  to  सब  aspects of business  conduct  and is relevant  to  the conduct of individuals and entire organizations .
Business ethics  रै  both normative and descriptive dimensions .
As a corporate  अभ्यास  and a career specialization , the field is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to understand  कारोबार  behavior employ descriptive methods .
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns .
Interest in business  आचार  accelerated dramatically during the  1980s  and 1990s , both within major corporations and within academia .
For example , today  सबसे   प्रमुख  corporations promote their commitment to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters .
Adam Smith  कहा  , `` People of  the  same  व्यापार   seldom  meet  साथ  , even for merriment and diversion , but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public , or in some  contrivance  to  उठाएँ  prices . ''
Governments use laws  और   regulations  to  पाइंट  business behavior in what they perceive to be beneficial directions .
Ethics implicitly regulates  क्षेत्रों  and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control .
The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes .
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat , electricity , chemicals , friction , or radiation .
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as superficial or first degree )  or  extend into the deeper skin but do not  involve   the  full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree  )  .
Rarely all layers of the  स्किन  or deeper tissues , such as muscle or bone can be injured  in   जिससे  case the  बर्न  is either full thickness ( third  उपाधि  ) or fourth degree .
The  उपचार  required depends on the  गंभीरता  of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with  छोटी  more than simple pain killers  जबकि  major burns may require prolonged treatment in specialized burn centers .
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if exposure is prolonged it  may  result  in   कम  body temperature .
Partial thickness burns  may   आवश्यकता  cleaning with soap and water followed by dressings  .
Blisters should typically be left unbroken .
Full thickness burns usually require  सर्जिकल  treatments  ऐसे  as skin grafting and  extensive  burns often require large amount of  intravenous  fluids .
The most common complications of burns are related to infection .
While large burns  can  be fatal  ,  modern treatments developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes , especially in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million  लोगों  seek medical treatment and 300,000 people die from  burns  .
In  the  United States , of those admitted to a burn center , approximately 4 % die from their injuries .
The long term  निष्कर्ष  is primarily related to the size of burn and the age of the person effected .
The Atlantic  समंदर  , not including Arctic and Antarctic regions
इस  video was taken  by  the  क्रू  of Expedition 29 on board the ISS .
The pass starts from just north-east of  the  Island of Newfoundland over  the  North Atlantic  समंदर  to central Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic Ocean is  the  second-largest of the world 's oceanic divisions .
With a total area of about , it covers approximately 20 percent of the  धरती  's surface and about 29  प्रतिशत  of its water surface area .
The first part of its name refers to  एटलस  of Greek mythology , making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is  in  The  histories  of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt . 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek  :  Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; English  :  Sea of Atlas ) .
The term Ethiopic Ocean , derived from Ethiopia , was applied to the southern Atlantic as late as the mid-19th century .
पहले  Europeans discovered  अन्य  oceans , the  पद   ``  ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters  परे  the Strait of Gibraltar that we now know as the Atlantic .
The early Greeks believed this ocean  to  be a gigantic  नदी   encircling  the world .
The  अटलांटिक  Ocean occupies an  elongated  , S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the Americas to the west .
As one component of the  interconnected  global ocean , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic ) , to the Pacific Ocean in the  दक्षिणपश्चिम  ,  the  Indian Ocean in the southeast , and the  दक्षिणी  Ocean in the south  .
( Other definitions describe the  अटलांटिक  as extending southward to Antarctica . )
The equator subdivides  it  into the North Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the need  लिये   a  unique identifier in issuing forecasts and warnings , tropical cyclones and  उपोष्ण  cyclones are given names according to  नीति  (  देखिए  Tropical cyclone naming ) .
The following are lists from which these tropical and subtropical cyclone  names  are  निकला  .
White light is dispersed by  a  prism into the colors of the optical spectrum .
The visible spectrum  is   the  portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation in this range of wavelengths is called visible  लाइट  or  बस  light .
A typical human eye will respond to wavelengths from about 390  to  700 nm .
In terms of frequency  ,  this corresponds to a  बैंड  in  the  vicinity of 430–790 THz  .
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm (  540  THz ) , in the green region  of  the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ) .
The  वर्णक्रम  does not , however , contain all the colors that the human eyes  और  brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors such as  गुलाबी   ,  or purple variations such as magenta , are absent , for example , because  वे  can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
Colors containing only one  wavelength  are also called pure colors .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window `` , the  प्रदेश  of  the  electromagnetic spectrum which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
An example of this phenomenon is that clean air scatters blue  लाइट  more  than  red wavelengths , and so the midday  आसमान  appears blue .
The optical window is also called the  दृश्य  window because it overlaps the human visible response spectrum .
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the human vision , as well  as  the Medium Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) window and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may  अनुभव  them .
Many species can see light with  बारंबारता  outside the `` visible spectrum , ''  जिससे  is defined in terms of human vision .
Bees and many other insects  can  detect ultraviolet light , which helps them find nectar in flowers .
Plant species that depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive success to their appearance in ultraviolet light , rather than how colorful they  appear  to humans .
Birds , too , can see into the ultraviolet ( 300–400 nm ) , and  कुछ  have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet  दायरा  , however  ,  can not see red light or any other reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at about 590nm , just before the orange wavelengths start .
Birds , however  ,  can see some  रेड  wavelengths , but not as many as humans .
Zebras ( or ) are several species of African equids  (  horse family ) united by their  distinctive  black and white stripes .
Their  धारियाँ  come in different patterns , unique to each individual .
They are generally social animals that live in small harems to large herds .
Unlike their closest relatives , horses and asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
There are three species of zebras : the plains zebra  ,  the Grévy 's zebra and the  पहाड़  zebra .
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , but Grévy  's  zebra  is  the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to which it is closely  सम्बन्धित  , while the former two are more horse-like .
All three  belong  to the genus Equus , along with other living  equids  .
The unique stripes of zebras make them one of the animals most familiar to people .
They occur in a variety of habitats , such as grasslands , savannas , woodlands , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal hills  .
However , various anthropogenic factors have had a severe impact on zebra populations ,  in  particular  शिकार   लिये   खालें  and habitat destruction  .
Grévy 's  जेब्रा  and the mountain zebra are endangered  .
While plains zebras are much more  plentiful  , one subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the late 19th century – though there is  फिलहाल  a plan , called the Quagga Project , that aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called breeding back .
Barry White , born Barry Eugene  कार्टर   (  – ) , was an American composer and singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image ,  श्वेत  's greatest success came  in  the 1970s as a solo singer  और  with the Love Unlimited Orchestra , crafting many enduring soul , funk , and disco songs such as his two biggest hits , ``  तुम  're the First , the Last , My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your  प्रेम  , Babe . ''
Along with Isaac Hayes , White  is  considered by Allmusic.com  as  a pioneer of disco music in the  जल्दी  1970s .
During  the  course  of  his career in the music business  ,  White achieved 106 gold albums worldwide  ,  41  of  which also attained platinum status .
White had  20  gold and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide sales in excess of 100 million , according to critics Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan .
His  प्रभाव  included Rev . James Cleveland , Ray Charles , Aretha Franklin plus Motown artists The Supremes  ,  The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born Angelina Jolie Voight ; June 4 , 1975 )  is  an American actress , film director , and screenwriter .
She has received an Academy Award ,  दो  Screen Actors Guild Awards , and three  सुनहरी  Globe Awards , and was named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes  in  2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian  कल्याणकारी  , and  is  noted for her work with refugees as a Special  envoy  and former Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' woman  ,  a  शीर्षक  for which she has received substantial media attention .
Jolie  बना  her screen  डेब्यू  as a child alongside her father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ) , but her film career began in earnest a decade later  साथ  the low-budget production  साइबोर्ग  2 ( 1993  )  .
Her first leading role in a major film was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed  biographical  television  films  George Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 )  ,  and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl , Interrupted ( 1999  )  .
Jolie achieved wide fame  बाद  her portrayal of video game heroine  लारा  Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb Raider (  2001  ) , and established herself  among  the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle  of  Life  (  2003 ) .
She continued her action  स्टार  career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and  चाही  ( 2008 ) —her  biggest  non-animated commercial successes to date—and received further critical  acclaim  for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ) ,  जिससे  earned her a nomination for an Academy  पुरस्कार  for Best Actress .
Jolie made her directorial debut  साथ  the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 )  .
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob  थॉर्नटन   ,  Jolie now lives with actor Brad Pitt , in a relationship notable for  fervent  media  ध्यान  .
Jolie and Pitt  have  three biological children and three adopted children  .
A natural arch produced  by  the erosion of differentially weathered rock  in  Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
अपरदन  is the process by which soil and  चट्टान  are removed  इससे  the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes such as wind or water flow , and then transported and deposited  in  other locations .
जबकि  erosion is a natural  प्रक्रम  , human activities have increased by 10-40 times the rate at which  अपरदन  is occurring  globally  .
Excessive erosion causes problems such as  मरुस्थलीकरण  , decreases in agricultural productivity due to land degradation , sedimentation of waterways , and ecological collapse due to loss  of  the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the  दो  primary causes of land degradation ; combined , they are responsible  लिये  84 % of degraded acreage  ,  making excessive erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems  .
Industrial agriculture , deforestation , roads , anthropogenic climate  बदलें   और  urban sprawl  हैं  amongst the most significant human activities in regard to  उनके  effect on stimulating erosion .
However ,  वहीँ  are many available alternative land use practices that can curtail or limit erosion , such as terrace -building , no-till agriculture  ,  and revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on MTV from December 3 ,  2009  to  दिसम्बर  20 , 2012 in  the  United States .
The  श्रेणी  follows the lives of eight housemates spending their summer  at  the  जर्सी  Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter  to  Miami Beach  ,  with Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore .
The  चौथी  season  ,  filmed in Italy ,  premiered   on  August 4 ,  2011  .
The show returned for a fifth season , at Seaside  हाइट्स  on January 5 , 2012 .
The fifth season finale aired on March 15 , 2012 .
On  कूच  19 , 2012 , MTV confirmed that the series would return for their sixth season .
On  अगस्त  30 , 2012 , MTV announced that the series will end after the sixth season  ,  which premiered on October 4 .
The series finale aired on December 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy  regarding  the use of the words ``  guido  / Guidette , '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes , and scrutiny from locals  क्युकी  the cast members were not residents of  the  area .
The series garnered record ratings for MTV ,  बनाना  it the  संजाल  's most viewed series telecast ever .
The series  '  cast have  भी  been credited with introducing unique lexicon and phrases  into   अमरीकी   लोकप्रिय  culture .
the  University of Chicago  और  the University of Oklahoma are among the educational institutions that have had classes or conferences about the show .
In  2010  , the cast of Jersey Shore was named on Barbara  walters  ' 10 Most Fascinating People  सूची   ,  and  the  series  रै  since  महरूम  exported to  दर्जनों  of countries worldwide .
वहीँ  are several remakes of  the  show in  अन्य  countries  ,  with two set in the United Kingdom ; the well known Geordie Shore , set in Newcastle upon Tyne , England .
the  other is The Valleys , the Welsh  समतुल्य  , which is  फिल्माया  and  नियत  in Cardiff .
The only other official remake of the show is  gandía  Shore , set in Gandía , Spain .
right
United States territory is any extent of  प्रदेश  under the jurisdiction of the federal government of the United States , including all waters ( around islands or continental  tracts  ) and all U.S . Naval vessels .
the  United States has traditionally  proclaimed  the sovereign rights for exploring , exploiting , conserving , and managing its territory  .
This extent of territory is all the area belonging  to  ,  और   अंतर्गत  the dominion of , the United States  संघीय  government ( which includes tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and  अन्य  purposes .
The United States total  territory  includes  a  subset of political divisions  .
The U.S.  सरकारी  is a government with delegated powers under the United States Constitution  .
``  the   शक्तियां  not delegated to the  संयुक्त  States by the  संविधान  , nor prohibited by it to the States , are reserved to the States respectively , or to the people  ''  by  the  Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated  as  T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction action film directed by Jonathan Mostow and starring Arnold Schwarzenegger , Nick Stahl , Claire  danes  and Kristanna Loken .
It is the second sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ) .
After  स्काईनेट  fails  to   मार  Sarah Connor before  उसके  son is born and to kill John himself as a child , it sends back another Terminator , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible .
This includes John 's future wife , but not John himself as his whereabouts are unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is placed  in  danger when the T-X accidentally finds him .
A cord of wood
The cord is a unit of measure of  शुष्क  volume used in Canada  और  the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is  the   राशि  of wood that , when `` ranked and well stowed '' ( arranged so pieces are aligned , parallel , touching  और  compact ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile  ऊँची  , long , and deep ; or  कोई  other arrangement of linear measurements that yields the same volume .
the  name cord probably comes from the use of  a  cord or string to measure  it   .
The , is an 8-bit handheld video game  यंत्र  developed and manufactured  by  Nintendo  .
It  थी   released  in Japan on , in North America  in  , and in Europe on .
It is the first handheld console in the  खेल   लड़के  line  ,   और  was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 —the same staff who had designed the Game & Watch series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
Redesigned versions were released  in  1996 and 1998 , in the form  of  Game Boy Pocket , and Game Boy Light ( Japan only  )  ,  क्रमशः  .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system  following  the Game & Watch series introduced in  ,  and it combined features  इससे  both the Nintendo Entertainment System and Game & Watch .
It was originally bundled with the puzzle game Tetris .
As part of the fourth generation  of  gaming  ,  the Game Boy competed with the Sega  खेल  Gear , Atari Lynx , and the TurboExpress .
Despite these other technologically superior handheld consoles , the Game Boy was a tremendous  कामयाबी  .
the  Game Boy and its successor , the Game Boy Color , have both combined sold  118.69   लाख  units worldwide  .
Upon its release in the United  राज्य  , it sold its entire shipment of one million units within  सप्ताह   .
The World Trade Center is a complex of buildings  अंतर्गत  construction in Lower Manhattan , New York City , United States , replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with  the  same name on the same site .
The original World Trade Center featured landmark twin  मीनारें   ,  which opened on April 4 , 1973 and were destroyed in the September 11 attacks of  2001  , along with 7 World Trade Center .
The other buildings in the complex were damaged in the attacks , and their ruins were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers and  a  memorial to those killed in the attacks  .
,  तभी  one skyscraper has been completed ; the other four are expected to be completed before 2020  .
One  संसार  Trade Center will  be  the lead building for the new complex , reaching more than 100 stories at its completion .
It became the tallest building in New York City on April 30 , 2012 , and is expected to  be  finished by 2013 .
A sixth tower is awaiting confirmation .
At  the  time of their completion , the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 World Trade  बीच  ( the South Tower ) , known collectively as the `` Twin Towers '' , were the tallest  इमारतें  in the world .
the  other buildings included 3 WTC ( the Marriott World Trade Center ) , 4 WTC , 5  wtc   ,  6 WTC ,  और  7 WTC .
All of these buildings were built between 1975 and 1985 .
The cost for the construction  थी  $  400  million ( $ in dollars ) .
The complex was located in the heart of New York City 's downtown financial district and contained 13.4  लाख  square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The World Trade Center experienced a fire on  ,  1975  ,  a bombing on , 1993 and a robbery on , 1998  .
in  1998 , the Port Authority decided to privatize the World Trade Center , leasing the buildings to a private company to manage , and awarded the lease  to  Silverstein  गुण  in .
on  the morning of September 11 , 2001 , Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the  जटिल  , one into each tower ,  in  a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56  मिनट्स  , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by  the  North Tower  (  1  )  , with the attacks on the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the  मीनारें   ,  combined with fires  कि  the debris initiated in several surrounding buildings , led to  the  partial or complete collapse of all the other buildings in  the  complex and caused  अनर्थकारी  damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding  क्षेत्रफल   .
The process of cleanup and recovery at the World  व्यापार  Center  साईट  took eight months .
Over the following years , plans for a rebuilt World Trade Center took form .
The first new  भवन  at the site was 7 World  व्यापार  Center , which opened in .
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ) , established in to  oversee  the rebuilding process , organized competitions to select  a  site plan and memorial design .
Memory Foundations , designed by Daniel Libeskind  ,  was selected as the master plan , but this went through substantial changes in  डिज़ाइन  .
The new World  व्यापार  Center complex will include One World Trade Center , three other high-rise office towers , and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San Gabriel Mountains
San Bernardino Mountains , with Mt . San Gorgonio in  the  foreground and Big Bear Lake in the background  .
The Transverse Ranges are a  समूह  of mountain ranges of southern California , in the Pacific  coast  Ranges physiographic region in North America .
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern  समाप्त  of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego  काउंटी  .
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their East-West  अभिविन्यास  ,  बनाना   उन्हें  transverse to the general North-South orientation of most  of  California 's coastal  kyu  .
Periodic table with electron shells
An electron shell may be thought of as  an  orbit followed  by  electrons around an atom 's nucleus .
the  closest shell to the nucleus  is  called the  ``  1 shell '' ( also called `` K  शेल  ''  )  , followed by the ``  2  shell '' ( or `` L shell ''  )  , then the ``  3  shell '' ( or ``  m   शेल   ''  ) , and so on farther and farther from the nucleus .
The shell  अक्षर  K , L , M , ... , used in the X-ray notation  ,  are alphabetical .
Each shell can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can  थाम  up  to  two  electrons  , the  2nd  shell can hold up to eight electrons , the  3rd   शेल  can hold up to 18 , and 4th shell  can  hold up to 32 and so on .
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus  ,  an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely  भर  by other electrons  .
However , this is not a strict requirement  :  Atoms may have two or  भी  three incomplete outer shells .
( See Madelung rule for  अधिक  details . )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in these  शेल  see electron configuration  .
The electrons in the  outermost  occupied shell ( or shells ) determine the chemical properties of the atom ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of one or more  subshells  , and each subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals  .
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( née Hogan ; November  28  , 1967 – February 8 , 2007 ) , known  by   उसके  moniker Anna Nicole  स्मिथ  , was an American model , actress , and television personality  .
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy  ,  becoming the 1993 Playmate of  the   साल  .
She modeled for  कपडे  companies , including Guess jeans and Lane Bryant  .
Smith dropped out of high school and was  शादीशुदा  in 1985 .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul , J. Howard Marshall , 62 years  उसके  senior , resulted in speculation that she married the  octogenarian  for his money , which she denied .
following  Marshall  's  death , Smith began a lengthy legal battle over a share of his  एस्टेट  .
Her case , Marshall v. Marshall , reached the U.S. Supreme Court  on  a question of federal jurisdiction ,  और  again on a question of bankruptcy court  प्राधिकार  ( now called Stern  v.   मार्शल  ) .
Smith died  on  February 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , Florida hotel room  as  a result of an overdose of prescription  दवाएँ  .
Within  the  final six months  of  her life , Smith was the focus of a renewed press coverage  surrounding  the death  of  her son  ,  Daniel , and the paternity and custody battle  over  her newborn  बेटी  , Dannielynn .
The is one denomination of Japanese yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters known as the `` new script `` , and were also minted from 1949-1958 using ``  old-script  '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen coins date to 1870 (  जब  , due to the much higher value  of  the yen  ,  they were minted in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts  a  rice plant growing out of the water , with `` five yen '' written in kanji ; the back is stamped with `` Japan ''  और  the year of  समस्या  , also in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic elements of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries , the key elements of the Japanese  first-sector  economy .
Around a hole , there is a gear  कि   represents  industry .
It is the only Japanese  सिक्का  in circulation to lack Arabic numerals on either face .
TLC is  an  American girl group whose repertoire spanned R & B , hip hop , soul , funk , and new jack swing .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas , the  समूह  found unprecedented success  in  the 1990s while also enduring a  श्रेणी  of spats with the law , each other ,  और  the group 's record label .
Initially , TLC achieved  वाणिज्यिक  success following the release of  उनके  debut album Ooooooohhh ...
On  the  TLC  टिप  , which sold 6 million copies worldwide .
However ,  it  was their second album ,  crazysexycool  , that catapulted the group to superstar status .
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA — a first for a female group , and eventually sold 23  लाख  copies worldwide .
Five  सालो  later , the group released their third album FanMail , which became the group 's first album to debut at number one and sold more than 11  लाख  copies worldwide .
The subsequent tour  following  FanMails release became the highest grossing tour of all  समय  by a female band .
In 2002 , Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car accident in Honduras .
Seven months later  ,  T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's  चौथी  album 3D , which sold  2  million copies worldwide , it featured unreleased vocals from Left Eye  .
Billboard magazine ranked TLC as one of the greatest  musical  trios .
Between 1992 and  2003  , the band accumulated ten top ten singles , four number one singles , four multi-platinum albums , and four Grammy Awards .
At the end of 1999 , TLC was ranked as the seventh most  कामयाब  act of the 1990s  by  Billboard .
In 2008 , the group was inducted into  the  All Time Hot  100  Artist Hall  of  Fame by  the  same magazine  ,  at 56th place .
That  साल  it was  भी  listed as the # 25 R & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding  25  years .
TLC has sold  अधिक  than  65  million records worldwide and they are ranked as the second  बेहतरीन  selling female group of all time , and the best selling female R &  b  group  of  all  समय  .
in  2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's  100  Greatest Women in Music , being ranked the number  एक  all girl group  on  that list  .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney  तस्वीरें  .
The 37th film in  the  Walt Disney Animated Classics , it is  आधारित  on the story Tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice Burroughs , and is the only major motion picture  संस्करण  of the story  टार्ज़न  property to be animated .
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima with a screenplay  by  Tab Murphy  ,  Bob Tzudiker , and Noni White , Tarzan features  the   आवाज़ें  of Tony Goldwyn , Minnie Driver , Glenn Close  ,  and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed , Lance  henriksen  , Wayne Knight , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It was the last bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the early  2000s  grossing $ 171,091,819  domestically  and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its  पूर्ववर्तियों  Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its production budget of $ 130 million made it the most expensive animated film ever made , until topped by  डिज़्नी  's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It was also the  पहला   डिज़्नी  animated  विशेषता  to open at # 1 since Pocahontas .
This was the last major box office  कामयाबी  of the Disney Renaissance .
Oil Platform P-51 off the Brazilian coast is a semi-submersible platform .
Oil platform Mittelplate in the North sea
An oil platform , ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a  विशाल  structure with facilities to drill wells , to extract  और   प्रक्रम  oil  और   प्राकृतिक  gas  ,  and to temporarily store product until it  can  be  brought  to shore for refining and marketing .
In many cases , the platform contains facilities to house the  workforce  as well .
Depending on the circumstances , the platform may be fixed to the ocean  मंजिल  , may consist of an artificial island , or may float .
Remote subsea wells may also be connected to a platform by flow lines and by umbilical connections .
These subsea solutions may consist of one  or  more subsea wells , or of  एक  or  अधिक  manifold centres for multiple wells .
Slaughter is the killing of animals , usually that of domestic livestock for food .
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle , water buffalo ( for beef and veal )  ,  sheep , goats ( for lamb and mutton ) , pigs ( for pork ) , horses ( for horse meat  )  , and fowl ,  largely  chickens , turkeys , and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ) .
The White House , the president 's  आधिकारिक  residence and  बीच  of the administration
Under the United  राज्य  Constitution , the President of the United States is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the presidency is the highest  राजनैतिक  office in the United States by influence and recognition .
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces  .
The president is indirectly elected to  a  four-year term  by  an Electoral College (  or  by the House of Representatives should the  चुनावी  College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to  the  United States Constitution in 1951 , no person may  be   निर्वाचित  President more than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a  पद  to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation , or removal from office  of  an incumbent President , the  वाइस  President assumes the office .
The President must be at least 35 years of  आयु  and a `` natural  born  '' citizen of the  संयुक्त  States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn  into  office as president following the ratification of  the  United  राज्य  Constitution , which took effect  on  March 4 , 1789  .
For American  नेताओ  before this  अनुसमर्थन  , see President of  the  Continental Congress .
The list  करता  not include any Acting Presidents under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United  राज्य  Constitution .
वहीँ  have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both  the   22nd  and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as  अध्यक्ष   ,  four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and  फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A.  गारफ़ील्ड  ,  विलियम  McKinley , and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George Washington , the first  अध्यक्ष  , was inaugurated in  1789  after a unanimous  vote  of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days  in  1841 , and Franklin  D.  Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
he  is the only president to  serve   अधिक  than two terms , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after Harry Truman ,  थी  passed to limit the number of times an individual can be  निर्वाचित   अध्यक्ष  .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president ,  थी  the first  to  be elected by men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was  the  first elected after women gained voting rights in 1920 .
History records four presidents – John Q Adams , Rutherford B. Hayes , Benjamin Harrison and George W.  बुश  – who lost the  लोकप्रिय  vote but assumed office .
जॉन  F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman  कैथोलिक  faith ,  और  the  वर्तमान  president , Barack  ओबामा  , is the first president of African descent  .
Several firearms with  detachable  suppressors , from top to bottom : An Uzi  ,  An AR-15 , A Heckler & Koch USP Tactical , A  beretta   92fs  , and a SIG Mosquito .
Bolt action rimfire rifle with suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle with attached suppressor .
A suppressor , sound suppressor , or sound  मॉडरेटर  , is  a  device attached to or part of the barrel of  a  firearm which reduces the amount of noise  ,   और  usually the amount of muzzle flash , generated by firing the weapon .
a  suppressor can be used both with a firearm and with compressed air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a  silencer  , this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a projectile , especially  एक  moving  तेज़  than the speed of sound  ,  through  the  air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater than 300 meters ) can lessen , or retard  ,  the report at the moment of  प्रभाव  , and create the impression of silence near the target .
the  noise heard near the muzzle as a  प्रक्षेप्य  leaves the barrel  ,  though subdued , is not silent at all .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas and  sometimes  by  reducing  the velocity of the bullet .
Early suppressors were created around  the   शुरूआत  of  the   20th  century by several inventors  .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim , Hiram Percy 's father , and the inventor of the Maxim Machine Gun )  ,  is credited with inventing and selling  the  first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim gave his device the trademarked  नाम  Maxim Silencer .
The muffler for internal combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm  suppressor  by  कहावत  in  the   जल्दी  20th century , using many  of  the same techniques to provide quieter-running engines (  in  many European countries automobile mufflers  हैं  still  पुकारा  silencers ) .
The word silencer  in  reference to gun  suppressor  remains in widespread use , although it  रै  since  गिरे  out of favor with some  ,   विशेषकर  among the firearms industry , being replaced with the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor , because a `` sound suppressor ''  करता  not `` silence '' any weapon , rather it eliminates muzzle  फ्लैश  and reduces the sonic  दबाव  of a firearm discharging .
Common usage and U.S. legislative language favor the historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms `` firearm muffler '' and `` firearm  silencer  '' are synonymous .
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the United States Office of Strategic Services  ,  who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM .22 Long Rifle  पिस्टल  during  संसार  War II .
oss  Director William Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan  demonstrated  the  पिस्टल  for President Franklin  D.  Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS research chief Stanley  लोवेल  , Donovan ( an old and trusted friend of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office  ,  where Roosevelt was dictating  a  letter .
While Roosevelt finished his message ,  डोनोवन  turned his back and fired ten  गोलियाँ   into  a  sandbag  he  था  brought with him , announced what  he  had done and handed the smoking gun to the  astonished  president .
The British SOE  (  Special Operations Executive )  welrod   हत्या  pistol with an integral suppressor  थी  also used  by  the American OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War .
Beatrice `` Bea  ''  Arthur ( May 13 , 1922 – April 25 ,  2009  ) was an American actress , comedienne , and singer whose career spanned seven decades .
Arthur achieved fame as  the  character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the Family and Maude  ,  and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls , winning  एमी   पुरस्कार   लिये  both roles .
A stage actress both before and after her  टेलीविज़न  success , she won the Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in  a  Musical for her performance as Vera Charles in the original cast of  mame  ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the  tekken  video game series  ,  produced by Digital Frontier  और  distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment in association with Bandai  entertainment   .
The  फिल्मी  premiered in North  अमेरिका   by  Bandai Entertainment on July 26 , 2011 , and in Australia  on  July 27 , 2011 in a special exclusive  one-off  screening .
It was released on September 3 , 2011  in  Japan .
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc  on   नवम्बर  22 , 2011 for USA ,  और  December 1 ,  2011   लिये  Japan .
This film was also released on DVD on November 22  ,  2011 ( 2D Version only ) .
The film was additionally included  साथ  the PlayStation 3 game , Tekken Hybrid , and the Nintendo 3DS title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For a discussion of nonprofit , voluntary neighborhood advocacy groups , see neighborhood association .
In the United States  ,   a  homeowner association is a corporation formed  by  a real estate developer for the purpose of  विपणन  , managing , and  selling  of homes and lots in a residential subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged  मतदान  rights in governing  the   संघ  , while allowing the developer to  निकास   वित्तीय  and legal responsibility of the organization , typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners  बाद  selling off a predetermined number of lots  .
सदस्यता  in the homeowners association by a residential buyer is typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't given  an  option to reject it .
Most  homeowner  associations are incorporated , and are subject to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State  oversight   of  homeowner associations is minimal , and  मुख्यतः  takes the form of laws  जिससे  are inconsistent from state to state .
Some states , such as Florida and California , have a large body of homeowner association law , and some states  ,  such as Massachusetts , have virtually  no  homeowner association law .
The fastest growing form of housing in the United  राज्य  today  is  common-interest developments ( CIDs  )  , a category that includes planned-unit developments of single-family homes  ,  condominiums , and cooperative  अपार्टमेंट  .
Since  1964  , homeowner associations have become  increasingly  common  in  the USA .
The Community Associations Institute  व्यापार  association estimated that HOAs governed 24.8 million American homes and 62 million residents in 2010 .
a   prize-winning  lilac-and-white  silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig  जिससे  have been developed since its domestication ca  .  5000 BC  .
Breeds vary widely in appearance and purpose , ranging from show breeds with  long  ,  बहती  hair to those in use as model organisms by science .
From ca .  1200  AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous  दक्षिण  American peoples resulted in many varieties of domestic Guinea pigs , which  रूप  the basis for some  of   the  modern domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept  as  agricultural stock for  खाना   ,  and efforts  at  improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to  the  modern era .
With the export of Guinea pigs  to  Europe in the 15th century , the  लक्ष्य  in breeding  shifted  to focus on the development of appealing pets .
to  this end , various competitive  प्रजनन  organizations were founded by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders Association , an adjunct to the American Rabbit  प्रजनक  Association , is the governing body in the United States and Canada .
The British Cavy Council governs  cavy   क्लब  in the United Kingdom .
Similar organizations exist in Australia ( Australian National Cavy Council ) and New Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each club publishes its  अपना  Standard of Perfection and determines which breeds are eligible for showing .
New  breeds  continue to emerge in  the   21st  century .
Though  वहीँ  are many breeds of Guinea pig ,  तभी  a few breeds are commonly found on the show table  as  pets .
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found undesirable by breeders or  यहूद  bred to be pleasant pets  regardless  of how well they meet the breed  मानक  of perfection .
The short hair , Abyssinian , Peruvian and Sheltie  (  aka Silkie ) breeds are those most frequently seen as pets , and  the  former three are the core  breeds  in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs .
In addition to their standard form , nearly all breeds come in a Satin variant .
Satins  ,  due to their hollow  बाल  shafts , possess coats of a special gloss and shine  .
However , there is growing evidence that the genes responsible for the Satin coat  भी  can cause severe bone problems ,  सहित  Osteodystrophy and Paget 's  बीमारी   .
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by  कुछ  cavy breeders '  एसोसिएशन  because  of  animal  welfare  reasons .
All cavy breeds have some shared general standards : the  सिर   प्रोफ़ाइल  should be rounded , with large eyes and large ,  चिकना  ears .
The body should be strong and of  कॉम्पैक्ट  build .
Coat colour should in all variations be clearly defined and thorough from root to tip  .
These standards are best met  by  long  स्थापित  , commonly bred breeds , as their  प्रजनक  have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal  of  good definition and thoroughness  is  rarely met by other than the smooth coated  breeds   ,  which have  था   खूब  established , separate breeding lines for different colours .
State schools  (  also known as public schools or government schools  )  generally refer to  प्राथमिक  or secondary schools mandated for or offered to all children without charge paid for , in whole or in part  ,  by taxation .
The term may  भी  refer to institutions  of  post-secondary education  वित्तपोषित  , in whole or in part , and overseen by government .
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules whose  अनुक्रम  is  नियंत्रित  by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules .
This  is  required by  सब  living cells and associated viruses .
The ribosome ( from  ribonucleic  acid and the  यूनानी  soma , meaning `` body '' ) is a large and complex molecular machine , found within all living cells , that serves as the primary site of  biological  protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link amino acids together  in  the order specified  by  messenger RNA ( mRNA  )  molecules .
Ribosomes consist of two major subunits—the small ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA , while the large subunit  joins  amino acids to form  a  polypeptide chain .
Each subunit  is  composed of  एक  or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) molecules and a variety of proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied many times  into  messenger RNA ( mRNA ) chains of a similar sequence .
Ribosomes can bind  to  an  mrna   कड़ी   और  use it as a template for determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids  हैं  selected , collected and carried to  the  ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA molecules ) ,  जिससे  enter one part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain .
The attached amino acids are then linked together by another part of the ribosome  .
Once the protein is  उत्पादित  , it can then 'fold ' to produce  a  specific functional three-dimensional structure .
A  राइबोसोम  is made from complexes of RNAs  और  proteins and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein  .
Each ribosome  is  divided into two subunits  :  the smaller subunit binds to the mRNA  पैटर्न  , while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the amino  acids  .
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule , these two subunits  विभाजित  apart .
Ribosomes  हैं  ribozymes , because  the  catalytic peptidyl transferase activity that links amino acids  साथ  is performed by the  ribosomal  RNA .
Ribosomes  इससे  bacteria , archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size , sequence , structure , and the ratio of protein to RNA .
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to kill bacteria by inhibiting their ribosomes , while leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea  ,  more than one ribosome may move along a single mRNA chain  at  one time , each `` reading '' its sequence and producing a corresponding protein  अणु  .
The  ribosomes  in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble many features of those in bacteria  ,  reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude , Christian de Duve , and George Emil Palade were  jointly  awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in  1974  , for the discovery of  the  ribosomes .
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to Venkatraman Ramakrishnan , Thomas A.  steitz  and Ada  E.  Yonath for determining  the  detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The  सरलीकृत  internal structure of a chloroplast
Overview of the Calvin cycle and  कार्बन  fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis  हैं  chemical reactions  कि  convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose  .
These reactions occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of  the  thylakoid membranes .
ये  reactions take the  light-dependent  reactions and perform further chemical processes on them .
There are three  phases  to the light-independent reactions , collectively called the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation , reduction reactions  ,  and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name , this process occurs only when light is  उपलब्धियाँ  .
Plants  do  not carry out the Calvin cycle by night .
They , instead , release sucrose into  the  phloem from their starch  reserves  .
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis (  c3  carbon fixation , C4  कार्बन  fixation , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism  )  ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles  प्रत्येक  night  और  release it by day  in  order to  मेक  this process work .
In mathematics , a square number or perfect square is an integer that  is  the square of an integer ;  in  other words , it is the product of  कुछ  integer with itself .
For example , 9 is a square number , since it can be written as .
The usual notation for the formula for the  वर्गाकार  of a number is not the product , but the equivalent exponentiation  ,  usually pronounced as ``  वर्गाकार  '' .
The name square number comes from the name of the shape ; see below .
Square numbers are  non-negative  .
Another way of saying  कि  a  (   non-negative  ) number is a square number , is that its square roots are again integers .
For example ,  =  ±3 ,  so  9 is a square number .
A positive integer that has no perfect square divisors except 1 is called  square-free  .
For  a  non-negative integer , the th square  क्रमांक  is , with being the zeroth square .
The concept of square can be extended to some other number systems .
If rational numbers are  शामिल   ,  then a square is the ratio of two square integers , and , conversely , the ratio of two square integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 )  2  ) .
Starting with 1 , there are square numbers  up  to and including , where  the  expression represents the floor of the number  .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political history of the United  राज्य  that reflected a  भाव  of national purpose and a desire for  एकता  among  अमेरिकी  in the aftermath  of  the Napoleonic Wars .
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan disputes between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party  प्रणाली  .
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making his nominations , with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics .
The period  is  so closely associated with Monroe 's presidency ( 1817–1825  )   और  his administrative goals that his name and the era are virtually synonymous  .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in American politics with the  समाप्त  of the Federalist Party as America began to develop after the War of 1812 .
While America was experiencing growth and prosperity after the war with Britain , this era  भी  marks the first instance of  आर्थिक  troubles in the growing  संयुक्त  States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of  the  United States  जटिल  the tension  between  the North and South with the coming of the first financial crisis .
While  the  term “Era of Good Feelings” is  प्रायः  viewed with irony because of the political turmoil , economic factors caused animosity between  the  North and South .
The designation of the period by historians as  एक  of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the history of the era was one in which the political atmosphere  थी   strained   और  divisive , especially among factions within the  मुनरो  administration and the Republican Party .
the  phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell , in  the  Boston Federalist newspaper , Columbian Centinel , on July  12  , 1817 , following Monroe 's visit to Boston , Massachusetts as part of his good will tour of America .
Mariel  मार्गरेट  `` Mia '' Hamm  (  born March  17  , 1972 ) is a retired American professional soccer player .
Hamm played many years as a forward for  the  United States women 's national soccer team and was a founding  सदस्य  of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international goals ,  अधिक  than any other player , male or female , in the history of soccer and is the third  सबसे  capped female player  in  soccer  इतिहास  behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone , appearing  in  275 international matches .
hamm  was named the women  's  FIFA  संसार  Player of  the  Year  the  first two times that  पुरस्कार  was given ( in 2001 and 2002 ) ,  और  is listed as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players (  as  chosen by Pelé ) .
She was  inducted  into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the Alabama  खेल  Hall of  कीर्ति  and Texas Sports Hall of  कीर्ति  .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer  और   जीवन  and  appeared  in the HBO documentary Dare to  सपना  : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team .
Washington Post columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm , `` Perhaps  the  most important athlete of the last 15 years . ''
Hamm takes a corner kick .
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team based in Harrison , New Jersey , representing  the  New York metropolitan area .
the  team competes  in  the Eastern Conference of  प्रमुख  League Soccer ( MLS )  .
It is  एक  of the ten charter clubs of MLS , having competed in  the  league since its inception  .
The  टोली  was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ) , but has gone through several name changes .
The  टोली  was  originally  known as the New York/New Jersey MetroStars through 1997 .
From the 1998  ऋतु  through the  2005  season  ,  the team was known  as  the MetroStars .
On March 9 , 2006 , the team was sold  to  Red Bull GmbH , leading to the team 's current name .
वे  are the only original MLS franchise not to have won any significant trophy ( including regular season , playoffs , and  नॉकआउट  competition ) since inception .
The team 's best result in  the  MLS was the MLS Cup final in 2008 .
In  the   us  Open Cup , the MetroStars reached three semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , before reaching their first  फाइनल  in 2003 , losing 1–0 to the Chicago  आग  .
On August  26  , 2000 , the Metros ' Clint  mathis  set an MLS record by scoring five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn .
Some well-known players that have played for  the   टोली  include Giovanni Savarese , Tim Howard  ,  Tony Meola , Tab Ramos , Alexi Lalas , Clint Mathis , Jozy  altidore  , Michael Bradley  ,  Claudio Reyna  ,  Eddie Pope  ,   रॉबर्टो   donadoni  , Lothar Matthäus  ,  Adolfo Valencia ,  youri  Djorkaeff , Amado Guevara , Juan Pablo Ángel , Thierry Henry , Juninho  pernambucano  , Jan Gunnar Solli , Rafael Márquez , and Tim  काहिल  .
The team has also had well-known coaches ,  सहित  Carlos Queiroz , Carlos Alberto Parreira , Bora Milutinović ,  bob  Bradley , Mo Johnston , Bruce Arena and Hans Backe .
Confucianism , Taoism , and Buddhism are one , a painting in  the  litang style portraying three men  हँस  by a river stream ,  12th  century , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the number  of  Buddhists in the world , or in many countries  ,  is difficult due to definitional issues as  खूब  as practical problems of enumeration .
To begin with ,  the  religious beliefs , practices  ,  and  पहचान  of  ईस्ट  Asians ( who comprise the  बहुमत  of the  संसार  's Buddhists by  कोई  measure ) often blend Buddhism with other  परंपराओं  including Confucianism , the Chinese folk religion , Daoism , Shinto , and Korean shamanism .
सबसे  followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations ,  or  observe  a  definite ritual of adherence such as taking Refuge , making it difficult to accurately estimate the  क्रमांक  of practitioners .
An additional  चुनौती  is the hostility of several national governments  (  often Communist ones such as China or North Korea ) to religion  generally  or to Buddhism specifically  .
Government  नीतियों   in   ये  countries may encourage the  under-reporting  or non-reporting of religious adherence , resulting in official totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the worldwide Buddhist population range from 350 million to over one billion , but cluster nearer to  the  first figure .
adherents.com  ( as of 2012 )  suggests  a figure of 397 million  .
By major branches , the  संख्याएँ  are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism , including  ईस्ट  Asian Buddhism , with  no  fewer than 185 million adherents , and possibly several times that many ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in China , South Korea , Japan , Taiwan  ,  Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada  buddhism  , with no fewer than 125 million adherents .
This is the predominant form of  buddhism   practiced  in Cambodia , Thailand , Laos , Sri Lanka , and Burma .
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism , with approximately 20 million adherents .
This  रूप  predominates in the  वृहद  Tibetan and Mongolian  regions  , as well as in the Himalayas .
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan , and various territories within what is now western China , Vajrayana is traditional to certain regions of Russia  (  e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim )  ,  and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana ,  भी  known as Tibetan Buddhism , is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism , but this is  imprecise  , as Shingon and other forms of East Asian Buddhism also practice tantra  .
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka , Thailand , Cambodia , Laos , Burma , Bhutan , and Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other East Asian adherents , this figure might expand  to   शामिल  several more  देशों  .
In addition , Buddhism is the state religion of Cambodia  और  Bhutan , and receives  prominent  mention  in  the  constitutions  of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
In  उत्तरी  India  और  Nepal ,  the  land where Buddhism was born , the religion severely declined during the first millennium .
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic conquest of  उत्तरी  India , or to other factors  ,  remains controversial .
See  the   आलेख  Decline of Buddhism in India .
James Butler Hickok ( May  27  , 1837 – August 2 ,  1876  ) , better known  as   जंगली  Bill Hickok , was a folk hero  of  the American Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his  प्रतिष्ठा  as a lawman  ,   provided  the basis for his fame , although some of his  reported  exploits are fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois ,  hickok  went west at age 18  as  a fugitive from justice , first working as a stagecoach  ड्राइवर  , before he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
He fought for the Union Army during the American Civil War , and gained publicity after the  युद्ध  as a scout , marksman , actor  ,  and professional gambler .
Between his  law-enforcement  duties and gambling ,  जिससे  easily overlapped , Hickok  थी  involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed  जबकि  playing poker in the  nuttal  & Mann 's Saloon in Deadwood , Dakota Territory ( now South  डकोटा   )  .
Artist  's  conception of the Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on Mars  .
The rover landed on Mars in August 2012 .
A Mars  रोवर  is an automated motor vehicle which propels itself across the  सतह  of the planet Mars after  लैंडिंग  .
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory , they  can  be directed to interesting features , they can place themselves  in  sunny positions to weather winter months and they  can  advance the knowledge of how to perform very  रिमोट  robotic vehicle control .
There have been four  कामयाब  robotically operated Mars rovers .
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory managed  the  Mars Pathfinder mission and its now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages the Mars Exploration Rover mission 's active  अवसर  rover and inactive Spirit  ,  and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or more accurately , an audit of financial statements  ,   is  the verification of  the  financial statements of a legal entity ,  साथ  a view to express an audit  राय  .
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance , but not absolute assurance , that  the   वित्तीय  statements are presented fairly , in all material respects , and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework .
The purpose of an audit is  provide  and objective independent  परिक्षा   of  the financial statements , which increases the value and credibility of the financial statements produced by management , thus  बढ़ाएँ  user confidence in the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost  of  capital of the preparer of the  वित्तीय  statements .
वित्तीय  audits are  typically  performed by firms of practicing accountants who are experts in financial reporting .
The financial audit  is  one of many assurance functions provided by accounting firms .
Many  संगठन  separately employ or hire internal auditors , who do  नहीं  attest  to  financial reports but focus  मुख्यतः  on the internal controls  of  the organization .
External auditors may choose to place limited reliance on the work of internal  auditors  .
Auditing  promotes  transparency  और  accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an organization , therefore would likely to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
Internationally , the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA ) issued  by  the International Auditing and Assurance  मानकों  Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark  लिये  audit process .
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors  to  follow  the  ISA or a local variation  of  the ISA .
Dollar  सिक्के  have been minted in the United States in gold , silver , and base metal versions  .
The term silver dollar is often  प्रयुक्त  for  कोई  large white metal  सिक्का  issued by  the  United States with a face value of one dollar , although purists insist that a dollar is  नहीं  silver unless it contains some of that metal  .
Silver dollars  ,  the first dollar coin  समस्या  , were minted beginning in 1794 .
Gold dollars and gold-colored dollars have also been produced by  the  United  राज्य  .
The Sacagawea  और  Presidential dollars are often referred to as `` golden dollars '' .
In modern times , dollar coins  have  not been very popular in the United States .
Despite efforts by the government  to  promote their use ,  सबसे   अमेरिकी  currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins .
In  सीधा  and level flight lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ) .
in  a  banked  turn of  60°  , lift equals double the weight ( L=2W )  .
the  pilot  अनुभवों  2g and a doubled weight .
The steeper the bank , the greater the g-forces .
This  top-fuel  dragster can accelerate from zero to in 0.86 seconds .
This is a  आड़ा  acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined with the vertical g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields  a  g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with  g  from gravitational ) is a term for accelerations  लगा  as weight and measurable by accelerometers .
It is not a force , per se , but a force per unit mass .
चूंकि   ऐसे  a force is perceived as a weight , any g-force can be described as a `` weight per unit mass ''  (  see the synonym specific weight ) .
The g-force acceleration  अधिनियमों  as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an object 's mass , and ( save for certain electromagnetic force influences ) is the cause of an  ऑब्जेक्ट   's  acceleration in relation to free-fall .
This acceleration experienced by an object is due to the vector sum  of  non-gravitational forces acting  on  an object free to move .
The accelerations  कि  are not produced  by  gravity are termed proper accelerations , and it is only these that are measured in g-force units .
वे  cause stresses and  strains  on objects .
क्युकी  of these strains , large g-forces may be destructive .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force , even though g-forces are expressed in multiples  of   the  acceleration of a standard  गम्भीरता  .
Thus , the  मानक  gravitational acceleration at  the  Earth 's  सतह  produces g-force only indirectly  ,   as  a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on  an  object sitting on the Earth 's surface is caused by mechanical force exerted in the  upward  direction by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
the  upward force from the ground ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to  the  free-fall  कंडीशन  , which is the path that the object would follow when falling freely toward the Earth  's  center .
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only  ,  feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely  गिरना  elevator  गिरना  toward the Earth 's center ( in vacuum ) , or ( to good approximation )  शर्तें  inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are examples of coordinate acceleration ( a change in velocity  )  without a sensation of weight .
The experience of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is produced , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the absence of  गुरुत्वाकर्षक  fields , or in directions at right angles to them , proper and coordinate accelerations are  the   वही  , and any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
An example here is a rocket  in  free space ,  in  which simple changes in velocity are produced by the engines , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur holding a lituus , the curved wand often  प्रयुक्त   as  a symbol of augury on  रोमन  coins
The augur was a priest  और  official  in  the classical world  ,  especially ancient  रोम  and Etruria .
His main role  थी   to  interpret the will of the gods by studying the flight of birds : whether they are flying  in  groups or alone , what noises they  मेक  as they fly , direction of flight and what kind of birds they are .
इस  was known as `` taking the  auspices  . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any major undertaking in Roman society—public or private—including matters of war , commerce , and religion .
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who does not know that this city was  संस्थापित  only after taking the auspices , that everything in war and in peace , at  घर  and  विदेश  , was done only after taking the  auspices  ? ''
Farmington Hills is an  affluent  community in southeastern Michigan .
It  is  the second largest city in Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan .
Its population was 79,740 at the 2010 census .
It is part of the  upscale  northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan Detroit  और   is  also  पूर्वोत्तर   of  downtown Ann Arbor .
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in  the  United States , as well as in  the   राज्य  of Michigan .
In 2010 ,  the  area ranked as the 30th safest city in America .
Although the two cities have separate services and addresses  ,  Farmington and Farmington Hills are  प्रायः  thought of as the same community .
Features of the community include a  recently   संवर  downtown , boutiques  ,  a vintage cinema , numerous restaurants  ,  exotic car dealerships , art galleries , and  पब्लिक   पार्क  including Heritage Park .
There are several historical sites including the Longacre House and the  राज्यपाल  Warner Mansion .
Both cities  हैं  served by Farmington Public  स्कूलों  .
Farmington Hills serves as a major business center for the greater Detroit area .
Present-day impression of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town seal ( matrix ) of Náchod from 1570
A  मुहर  is a device  लिये  making an impression in wax , clay , paper , or some other medium , including an embossment on  पेपर   ,  and  is   भी   the  impression thus made .
the  original purpose was to authenticate a document , a wrapper for one such as a  आधुनिक  envelope , or the cover of a container or package  पकड़कर  valuables or other objects .
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould , with  the  final image represented on the device for making the  छाप  by a mirror-image design , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is  भी  referred  to  as the seal  मेट्रिक्स  or  die  ; the imprint it  creates  as the seal impression ( or , more rarely , the sealing ) .
If the impression is made  purely  as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where the high parts of the matrix touch , the seal is known as  a  dry seal ; in all other  मामले  a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
For legal purposes , the definition of a seal may be extended  to  include rubber stamps , or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S  .  ``  )  .
In the United  राज्य  , the word `` seal  ''   is  sometimes assigned to a  facsimile  of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ) , which may be  प्रयुक्त   in  a variety of contexts  सहित  architectural settings , on flags ,  or  on official letterheads .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal  of   the  United States , among  अन्य  uses , appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; and several of  the  seals of the  u.S.  states appear on their  संबंधित  state flags .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as  खूब  as on seals , the seal design in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics .
groundhog  Day ( Pennsylvania German : Grundsaudaag , Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on  फ़रवरी  2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy  जब  a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will come early ;  if  it is sunny , the groundhog  होगा  supposedly  देखिए  its shadow and retreat back into its burrow , and the winter weather will continue for six more weeks .
Modern customs of the holiday involve celebrations where early morning festivals are held to watch  the  groundhog  उभरते  from its burrow  .
In southeastern  पेन्सिलवेनिया  , Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge ,  सोशल  events in which food is  परोसा  , speeches are made , and  एक  or more g'spiel ( plays or skits  )  are  performed  for entertainment .
The  पेन्सिलवेनिया  German dialect is the only language spoken at the  इवेंट  , and  those  who speak English pay a penalty , usually in the  रूप   of  a nickel , dime , or quarter per word spoken ,  साथ  the money put into a bowl  in  the center of the table .
The largest Groundhog Day celebration  is  held in Punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and popular tradition , received widespread attention as a result of the 1993  फिल्मी  Groundhog Day , which was set in Punxsutawney , PA (  हालांकि  filmed primarily in Woodstock  ,  IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High resolution image of  tampa  Bay region
The Tampa Bay  क्षेत्रफल  has a humid subtropical climate ( Koppen Cfa ) , with warm and humid summers with frequent thunderstorms and drier winters with freezing temperatures occurring every 2–3 years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation falls in  the  months of June through September .
The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) as being in hardiness zone 10 , which is about the northern limit of where coconut palms and royal palms can be grown .
highs  usually range  between  65 and 95 °F ( 18 and 35 °C ) year round .
Though known for hot summers , Tampa 's  आधिकारिक  high has never reached 100 °F ( 38 °C ) – the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 °F ( 37 °C )  .
St. Petersburg 's  all-time  record high is exactly 100 °F ( 38 °C )  .
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the Gulf of Mexico , and much of the city of Tampa lies on  a   छोटी  peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay .
This proximity to large bodies of water both moderates temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities farthest from the coast have larger temperature ranges  ,  both  दौरान   a  single day and throughout the seasons of the year .
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum ,  प्रर्दशित   विभिन्न  properties across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range  of   सब   संभावित  frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an  ऑब्जेक्ट  has a different meaning , and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object  .
The  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  spectrum extends  इससे  below the low frequencies used for modern  रेडियो  communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of  the  size of an atom .
The  सीमा  for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity  of  the Planck length , although in  principle  the spectrum is infinite and continuous  .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In addition , radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other  उपयोग  for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic  विकिरण  for more  अनुप्रयोग  ) .
लेजेंड
फ्रैंकलिन  Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his initials , FDR , was the 32nd  अध्यक्ष  of the United States ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century , leading the United States during a time  of  worldwide economic  अवसाद  and  कुल  war .
A dominant  नेता  of  the  Democratic Party and  the  only American  अध्यक्ष   निर्वाचित  to more than two terms , he built a New Deal  गठबन्धन  that  realigned  American politics after 1932 , as his domestic  नीतियों  defined American liberalism for the middle third of  the  20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as  उसके  campaign  थीम  ,  fdr  defeated incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932 ,  at  the depth of the  ग्रेट  Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over  पोलियो  , FDR  's  unfailing  आशावाद  and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with  अंग्रेजों  Prime Minister Winston  चर्चिल   और   सोवियत  General Secretary Joseph Stalin in  अग्रणी  the Allies  विरूद्ध   जर्मनी  and  जापानी  in World  युद्ध  II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs  designed  to produce relief ( government jobs for the  बेरोजगार  )  ,   रिकवरी  ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of  वॉल  Street , banks and transportation  )   .
the  economy improved  rapidly  from 1933 to  1937  , but then relapsed into a deep recession  .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition  कि  formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing  कोई   considerable  legislation ; it abolished many of  the  relief programs when unemployment diminished  दौरान  World War II .
सबसे  of the regulations on business were ended  परिचय  1975–85 , except for the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities  और   एक्सचेंज  Commission , which  स्टिल   exists  .
Along with several smaller programs  ,  major surviving programs include  the  Federal Deposit Insurance  निगम   ,  which was created in 1933 , and Social  सुरक्षा  , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War  ii  loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of China  और  the aggression of  नाजी  Germany , FDR gave strong  राजनयिक  and financial support to  चीन  and Great Britain , while remaining officially  न्यूट्रल  .
उसके  goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941  ,  Roosevelt , with Congressional approval , provided  lend-lease  aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With  बहुत  strong  नेशनल  support  ,   he  made war on Japan and Germany  बाद  the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on  दिसम्बर  7 , 1941 , calling it a  ``  date which will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the  अलाइड   युद्ध  effort .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two  fronts  that ended in the defeat of the  अक्ष  Powers and  the  development of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment  of  100,000 Japanese American civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended , and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or  volunteered  for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the twelve years  of  his presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of voters that created the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions ,  बिग  city machines , white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He also influenced the later creation of the United  राष्ट्र  and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by  विद्वानों  as one of the top three U.S. Presidents , along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A  उदार  Democrat , Roosevelt defined his ideological position as `` a little left of center . ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to  refer  to a committee  बना  up of members of both chambers of a bicameral legislature .
In  अन्य  contexts , it refers to a committee with members from  अधिक  than one organization  .
The regulation  of  prostitution in the United States is not among  the  enumerated powers of the  संघीय  government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to  परमिट   ,  prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part  of  interstate commerce with laws  जैसे  the Mann Act .
In most states  ,  prostitution is considered  a  misdemeanor in the category of public order crime ,  a  crime that disrupts the order of a  जातियाँ  .
It was  at  one  समय  considered to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow  वेश्यालय  prostitution , the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8 counties currently contain active brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area )  ,  Washoe County ( which contains  रेनो  ) , Carson City , Douglas County , and Lincoln County .
The other  काउंटी  theoretically allow brothel prostitution , but some of these counties currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering ,  ''  and living off of the proceeds of  a  prostitute remain illegal under Nevada law , as elsewhere in the country .
As with other countries , prostitution in the United States  can  be divided into three broad categories : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and  अनुरक्षण   वेश्यावृति  .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American  ध्वज  , consists of thirteen equal  आड़ा  stripes of red (  शीर्ष  and bottom ) alternating with white , with a  ब्लू  rectangle  in  the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine  ऑफसेट   आड़ा  rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with  पंक्ति  of  पाँच   सितारों  .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50  राज्य  of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence  इससे  the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the  पहला  states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes '' , `` Old Glory `` ,  और   ``  The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
India is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight  राज्य   और  seven union territories .
The states and territories  हैं  further subdivided into districts  और  so on .
Congressional  जिले  for the 113th  संयुक्त  States Congress
2010  जनसांख्यिकी  change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts , starting in 2013 , as a result of the 2010 census .
2000 Census change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts , from 2003 to 2013 , as  a  result of the 2000 census  .
This is a complete list of congressional  जिले  for representation in the United States  हाउस  of Representatives .
The quantity ( apportionment ) and boundaries ( redistricting ) of districts  हैं  determined after each census , although in some  मामले  states have changed the boundaries more than once per census .
This list includes the 435 current and over 200 obsolete districts .
For example , since the 2000 census , Nebraska  रै  had three districts , but it  प्रयुक्त  to have as many  as  six .
In the first decade of the  twenty-first  century , Texas had 32 districts , but has since added four due to reapportionment  as  a result of the 2010 census  .
अन्य  states have lost districts since the number of congressional seats has  महरूम  set at 435 by  statute   .
Also  शामिल   यहाँ  are non-voting delegations : six current and four obsolete  .
The  सीमाएँ  of districts often shift  साथ  each redistricting .
Over time , the region and demographics represented in a district can change substantially .
furthermore  , districts sometimes retain  the  same boundaries while changing their district numbers .
Mariah Carey ( born March 27 , 1970 )  is  an American singer  ,  songwriter , record producer , actress , and philanthropist .
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola , Carey released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one  singles  on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
Following her  विवाह  to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records Emotions (  1991  ) , Music Box ( 1993 ) , and Merry Christmas ( 1994 )  ,  Carey was  स्थापित  as Columbia 's highest-selling act .
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single  ``  One Sweet Day `` , a duet with Boyz II Men , spent a record sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100 , and remains the longest-running number-one song in  u.S.  chart history .
During the recording of the album  ,  Carey  began  to deviate from her R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into  हिप  hop .
This musical change became evident with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ) , at which time Carey had separated from Mottola .
Carey left Columbia in 2000 , and signed a record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin Records .
Before the release of her first  विशेषता  film Glitter ( 2001 ) , she suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and was  hospitalized  for severe exhaustion .
Following the film 's poor reception ,  वो  was bought out  of  her recording contract for $ 50  लाख  , which led to a decline in her career  .
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002 , and after an unsuccessful period  ,  returned to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ) .
Its second  सिंगल  `` We Belong Together `` became her most successful single of the 2000s , and was later named `` Song of the Decade ''  by   बिलबोर्ड  .
Carey  एकबार  again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in (  2009  )  ;  she was awarded the `` Breakthrough  प्रदर्शन  Award '' at the Palm  स्रोतों   अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Film Festival , and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations .
In a  करियर  spanning over two decades  ,  Carey  रै  sold  अधिक  than 200  लाख  records worldwide , making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time .
In 1998 , she was honored as the  संसार  's best-selling recording  कलाकार  of the 1990s at the  संसार  Music Awards .
Carey was also named the best-selling female artist of the millennium in  2000  .
According to  the  Recording Industry Association  of   अमेरिका  , she is the third best-selling female artist in the United States , with 63.5 million certified albums .
साथ   the  release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ) , Carey  gained  her eighteenth number one single in the United States , more than any other solo artist .
In 2012 , Carey was ranked second on  vh1  's list of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music '' .
aside  from her commercial  accomplishments  , Carey has won five Grammy Awards , 17 World Music Awards , 11 American Music Awards , and 31 Billboard Music Awards .
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme  ''  by the Guinness World Records , she is famed for her five-octave vocal range ,  शक्ति  ,  melismatic  style and signature use of the whistle register .
Stratocumulus stratiformis  cumulogenitus
in  meteorology , a cloud is a visible mass of liquid droplets or frozen crystals made of water or various chemicals suspended in  the  atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body .
These suspended particles are  भी  known as aerosols .
Clouds in Earth 's atmosphere are studied in the cloud physics branch of meteorology .
Two processes , possibly acting together , can lead to air becoming saturated ; cooling  the  air or adding water vapor to the air .
In general , precipitation will fall to the surface ; an exception is virga , which evaporates before reaching  the  surface .
The international cloud classification system is based on  the  fact clouds in their most basic forms can show free-convective upward growth like cumulus , appear in non-convective layered sheets  ऐसे  as stratus , or take the form of thin fibrous wisps , as  in  the case of cirrus .
Prefixes  हैं  used in connection with clouds to express variations or complexities in  ये  basic forms or to specify middle or high altitude ranges .
These include strato- for low clouds with limited convection  कि  form mostly in uneven layers , cumulo- for complex highly-convective storm clouds , nimbo- for thick layered clouds of some complexity that can produce moderate to  भारी  precipitation  ,  alto- for middle  बादल  ,  और  cirro- for high  बादल  ; the latter two of which may be of simple or moderately complex structure .
Whether or not a cloud  is  low , middle , or high level depends on  कैसा  far above the ground its base forms .
Cloud types with significant  लंबवत  extent can form in the low or middle altitude ranges depending on the moisture content of  the  air .
Clouds in the troposphere have Latin names  due  to the  लोकप्रिय  adaptation of Luke Howard 's  बादल  categorization system , which began to spread in popularity during December 1802 .
Synoptic surface weather  observations  use code numbers to record  और   रपट  the types of tropospheric cloud visible at each scheduled observation time  आधारित  on the height and physical appearance of  the  clouds .
जबकि  a majority of  बादल   रूप  in Earth 's troposphere , there are occasions when  बादल  in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed .
These three  प्रमुख  layers  of  the atmosphere where clouds may be seen are collectively known as the  homosphere  .
Above this lies  the  thermosphere and exosphere ,  जिससे  together make up the heterosphere that marks the transition to outer space .
Clouds have been observed  on  other planets and  moons  within the Solar System , but , due to  उनके  different temperature characteristics  ,  they are composed of other substances such  as  methane  ,  ammonia , and sulfuric acid .
Galveston County is a county located in the U.S. state of Texas within the Houston–Sugar  land–baytown   महानगर   क्षेत्रफल  .
As of  the  2010 census , the population  थी  291,309 .
Its county seat is Galveston .
League City is the largest city in Galveston  काउंटी  in terms of population ; URL_http between 2000 and 2005  it  surpassed Galveston as  the  county 's  largest  city  .
Galveston County was founded in 1838 .
Nassau
Freeport , Bahamas
This is a list of cities in the Bahamas  .
The following table lists the city or town name , the geographic coordinates  ,  the population as of the 1990 census , an estimate of the population as of 2009 , and the island name .
The Big Ten Conference , formerly Western Conference and Big Nine  सम्मेलन  , is the oldest Division I college athletic conference in the  संयुक्त  States  .
Its twelve member institutions ( which are primarily flagship  शोध  universities in their respective states , well-regarded academically , and with relatively large student  नामांकन   )  are located primarily in the Midwest , stretching  इससे   नेब्रास्का  in the west  to  Penn State in the east .
The conference competes in the NCAA 's Division I ; its football teams  compete  in the Football Bowl  subdivision   (  FBS ) , formerly known as Division I-A , the highest level of  ncaa  competition in that sport .
Member schools of the Big Ten ( or , in two cases , their parent university systems ) also are members of  the  Committee on Institutional Cooperation ,  a  leading educational and  शोध  consortium .
Despite the conference 's name , the Big Ten actually consists of 12 schools , following the addition  of  The Pennsylvania State  विश्वविद्यालयों  in 1993 and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011 .
In 2014 , the conference will expand to 14 members  साथ  the additions of the University of Maryland , College Park and Rutgers , The State University of New  जर्सी  .
It is not  to  be confused with the Big 12 Conference , which has only ten schools and represents a different region of  the  country .
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky  बना  in Scotland using a pot still distillation process at  a  single distillery , with malted barley as the only grain ingredient .
As with  कोई   स्कॉच  whisky , a single malt Scotch must be distilled in Scotland and matured in oak casks in Scotland for at least three years ( most single malts are matured  longer  ) .
`` Malt '' indicates that  the  whisky  is  distilled from a `` malted '' grain .
Several types  of  grains can be malted ( for example , barley , rye  और  wheat are all grains which can be malted )  ;  however  ,   in   the  case  of  single malt Scotch , barley is always the only grain used .
`` Single '' indicates that all the malts in the bottle  आइये  from a single distillery .
Bottlings containing malt whisky from  अनेक  distilleries are called  ``  blended malt `` .
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ) , the word `` blended '' only appeared ( in the context of Scotch whisky ) on bottles of whisky  कि  contained a mixture of both barley and non-barley grain whisky , but this is no longer the case .
अंतर्गत  the terminology established by  the  SWR 2009 , a `` blended malt Scotch whisky ''  is  a mixture of single malt Scotch whiskies , not a mixture of malted barley whisky and  non-barley  whisky ; those are called `` blended Scotch whisky ''  ,  without the word `` malt '' .
The term `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt '' used under the prior labelling  प्रथाओं  .
The age statement on a bottle of single malt Scotch is the number of years the whisky spent maturing in cask .
As very few whiskies are bottled from a single  cask   the  age statement reflects the age of the youngest malt in the mix .
A texture  may  be arranged so as to , `` closely approach the single-object status of fused-ensemble  timbres  , for example , the beautiful 'northern lights ' chord ... , in a very interesting distribution of pitches , produces a  fused  sound supported by a suspended cymbal roll  ``   (  Erickson ( 1975  )  , p.166 & 168  )  .
In  कंट्रास्ट  to more traditional musical textures ,  ध्वनि   द्रव्यमान  composition `` minimizes the importance  of   व्यक्तिगत  pitches in preference for texture , timbre , and dynamics as primary shapers of gesture and impact . ''
Developed from the modernist tone  क्लस्टर  and spread to orchestral writing by the late 1950s and 1960s , sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound and noise `` ( Edwards 2001 , pp . 326–27 ) .
Techniques which  may  create or be  प्रयुक्त  with sound mass include extended techniques such as muted brass or strings , flutter tonguing  ,  wide vibrato , extreme ranges , and glissandos .
Composers and works include  बारबरा  Kolb , Pauline Oliveros ' Sound  पैटर्न   लिये   कोरस   (  1961 ) , Norma  beecroft  's From Dreams of Brass for chorus ( 1963–1964 ) , and Nancy Van de Vate .
Beecroft  ``  blurs individual pitches in favor of a collective timbre through the use of vocal and instrumental clusters , choral speech  ,  narrator ,  और  a wash of sounds from an electronic tape . ''
( ibid )
a  very early example is the  खोलने  of Jean-Féry Rebel 's ballet Les Elémens ( 1737–38 ) , where chaos  is  represented by a gradually cumulating orchestral cluster of all seven notes of the D minor scale ( Henck 2004 , pp  .  52–54 ) .
a  later example is the third movement of Ruth Crawford Seeger 's String Quartet 1931 ( Nonesuch H-71280 ) while more recently Phill Niblock 's multiple drone based music serves as an example .
The use of  ``  chords approaching timbres  ''  begins with  debussy   और  Edgard Varèse often carefully scored individual instrumental  भाग  so that they would fuse into one ensemble timbre  or  sound mass ( Erickson  1975  , pp . 18 and  21  )  .
Other examples include European `` textural '' compositions of the  fifties  and sixties such as Krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima ( 1959 ) and György Ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and his Requiem ( 1963-65 ) .
Other composers with works using this technique include Henryk Górecki , Karel Husa  ,  Witold Lutosławski , Kazimierz Serocki , and Steven Stucky .
Sound mass techniques  भी  appear  in  the music of George Crumb ( Anon  .  n.d. ) .
Students attending a lecture  on  linear algebra at the Helsinki University of  प्रौद्योगिकी
Pupils in rural Sudan , 2002
A student is a  learner  , or someone who attends an educational institution .
In  कुछ  nations , the English term ( or its  cognate  in  another  language ) is  सुरक्षित  for those who attend university , while a schoolchild under the age of eighteen is  पुकारा  a  pupil  in English ( or  an  equivalent in other languages )  ,  although in the United States a person enrolled in grades K–12 is often called a student .
in  its widest use , student is used for anyone who is learning .
ऑस्ट्रेलिया  is a continent comprising mainland Australia , Tasmania , New Guinea , Seram , possibly Timor , and  neighbouring  islands .
The continent  is  sometimes known in technical contexts by the names Sahul , Australinea or Meganesia , to distinguish it from the Australian mainland .
It is the smallest of the seven traditional continents in the English  धारणा   .
New Zealand  is  not part  of  the continent of Australia , but of the separate , submerged continent of Zealandia .
Zealandia and Australia  हैं  both part of the wider regions known as Australasia and Oceania .
The continent  of  Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by shallow seas which divide it into several  landmasses  — the  अराफुरा  Sea and Torres Strait between mainland Australia and New Guinea , and Bass Strait between mainland Australia and Tasmania .
When sea levels were  निम्नतर  during the Pleistocene ice age ,  सहित  the last glacial  अधिकतम  about 18,000 BC , they were connected by dry land .
During  the  past  टेन  thousand years , rising sea levels  overflowed  the lowlands and separated the continent into today 's low-lying arid  to  semi-arid mainland and the two mountainous islands of New Guinea and Tasmania .
Geologically , a continent extends to the edge of its  महाद्वीपीय  shelf , so the now-separate islands are considered part of the continent .
Due to the spread of animals , fungi and plants across the single Pleistocene landmass the separate lands have a related  biota  .
Central  पार्क  is nearly  twice  as big as the world 's second-smallest country , Monaco .
Historically its reservoirs were important components of  the  city 's water supply .
Environmental issues in New  यॉर्क  City are affected by the city 's size , density , abundant public transportation infrastructure , and location at  the   मुँह  of the Hudson River .
New York 's population density has  पर्यावरणीय  pros and cons .
It facilitates the highest mass transit use in the United States , but also concentrates pollution .
गैसोलीन  consumption in the city  is  at the rate  the  national average was in the 1920s , and  ग्रीनहाउस  gas emissions are a fraction of the national average , at 7.1 metric tons per person per year , below San Francisco , at 11.2 metric tons , and the national average , at 24.5 metric tons .
New York City accounts for only 1 % of United States greenhouse  गैस  emissions while housing 2.7 % of its population .
In  सितंबर  2012 , New York was named the  #  1 `` America 's  dirtiest  City , '' by a Travel+Leisure readership survey that rated the environmental quality  of  35  prominent  cities in the United States .
Atlanta (  ,  stressed , locally ) is  the  capital of and the most populous city in the U.S. state of Georgia , with an estimated 2011 population of  432,427  .
Atlanta  is   the  cultural  और  economic center of the Atlanta metropolitan area , home to  5,457,831  people and the ninth  largest  metropolitan area in the United States .
Atlanta  is  the county seat of Fulton County , and a small portion  of  the city extends eastward into DeKalb County  .
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the intersection of two railroad  लाइनों  , and the city rose from the  राख  of the Civil War to become  a  national center of  कॉमर्स  .
In the decades following the Civil Rights Movement ,  दौरान  which the city earned a reputation as `` too busy to  नफ़रत  '' for the progressive views of its citizens and leaders , Atlanta attained international prominence .
Atlanta is the primary transportation hub of the Southeastern United States ,  via  highway , railroad , and air , with Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport being the  संसार  's busiest airport since 1998 .
Atlanta is considered an  ``  alpha ( - ) world city , '' and , with a gross domestic  उत्पाद  of US $ 270 billion , Atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among world cities and  छठे  in the nation .
Although Atlanta’s economy is considered diverse , dominant sectors include logistics , professional and business services , media  परिचालन   ,   सरकारी  administration  ,   और  higher education  .
Topographically , Atlanta is marked by rolling hills and dense tree coverage .
Revitalization of Atlanta 's neighborhoods ,  initially  spurred by the  1996  Olympics , has intensified in the  21st  century , altering  the  city 's demographics , politics , and culture .
A 1947 propaganda comic book published by the Catechetical Guild Educational Society raising the specter of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism is the practice of making accusations of disloyalty  ,  subversion , or treason  बगैर  proper regard for evidence  .
It also means `` the practice of making unfair allegations or using unfair investigative techniques , especially  in  order to restrict dissent or political criticism . ''
The term has its origins in  the  period in the United  राज्य  known as the Second Red Scare ,  स्थायी  roughly from 1950 to 1956 and characterized by heightened fears of communist influence on American institutions and espionage  by  Soviet agents  .
originally  coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of Republican U.S . Senator Joseph McCarthy of Wisconsin , `` McCarthyism '' soon took on a  broader  meaning , describing the excesses of similar efforts .
The term is also  अभी  used more generally to describe reckless , unsubstantiated accusations , as well as demagogic attacks on the character or patriotism of political  adversaries  .
During the McCarthy era , thousands of Americans were accused of being Communists or communist sympathizers and became the subject of aggressive  investigations  and questioning before government or private-industry panels , committees and agencies  .
The  प्राथमिक  targets  of  such suspicions  यहूद  government employees , those in the entertainment industry , educators  और  union activists .
suspicions  were often given credence despite inconclusive or questionable evidence , and the level  of  threat posed by a person 's  रियल  or supposed leftist associations or beliefs was often greatly exaggerated .
Many people suffered loss of employment and/or destruction of their careers ; some even  suffered  imprisonment .
Most of these  punishments  came about through trial verdicts later overturned , laws that would be declared unconstitutional , dismissals for  कारण  later declared illegal  or  actionable , or  extra-legal  procedures that  होता  come into general disrepute .
The most famous examples  of   mccarthyism  include the speeches , investigations , and hearings of  सीनेटर  McCarthy himself ; the Hollywood blacklist , associated with hearings conducted by the House Un-American Activities Committee ( HUAC ) ; and the various anti-communist activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J. Edgar Hoover .
McCarthyism was a widespread social and cultural phenomenon that affected all levels of society and was the  सोर्स  of a great deal of debate and conflict in the United States .
Napoleon  is  a fictional character and the main antagonist in George  ऑरवेल  's Animal Farm  .
While he is at first a common farm pig , he gets rid of Snowball , another pig which shares the power .
He then takes advantage of the animals ' uprising against their masters to  आखिरकार  become the tyrannical ``  अध्यक्ष  of Animal Farm , '' which he turns into a  तानाशाही   .
NEPTUNE logo
The NEPTUNE Canada project is  the  world’s first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs directly into the Internet .
Since December 2009 , it has allowed people to `` surf '' the  seafloor  while ocean scientists run deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world .
Along with its sister project , VENUS ,  वरुण  offers a unique approach  to  ocean science  .
Traditionally , ocean scientists have relied  on  infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to  carry   आउट  their research , while  the  NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated crawler .
The  coronet  was a full-size car  इससे  Dodge in the 1950s  ,  initially the division 's highest trim line but , starting in 1955 , the lowest trim line .
In the 1960s , the name was transferred to Dodge 's mid-size entry .
ARM9 is an ARM architecture 32-bit RISC  cpu  family .
Commonwealth is a traditional English term for a  राजनैतिक  community founded for the common good .
Historically , it has sometimes been synonymous with `` republic ``  .
More recently it  रै  been used  लिये  fraternal  एसोसिएशन  of some  sovereign  nations .
Most notably , the Commonwealth  of  Nations  ,  an association primarily of former members of the  अंग्रेजों   साम्राज्य   ,  is often referred to as simply `` the Commonwealth '' .
The September 11  हमले  ( also referred to as September 11 , September 11th , or 9/11 ) were a series of four  समन्वित  terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and  the  Washington  ,   d.C.  area on September  11  , 2001 .
Four passenger  airliners  were hijacked by 19 al-Qaeda  आतंकवादी  so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks .
Two of those planes  ,  American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight  175  ,  यहूद  crashed into the North and  दक्षिण  towers , respectively , of  the  World Trade Center complex in New York City .
Within two hours , both towers  collapsed  with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of all other buildings in the WTC complex ,  as  well as major damage  to  ten other large surrounding structures .
A third plane , American Airlines Flight 77 , was crashed into the Pentagon  (  the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense ) , leading  to  a partial collapse in its western side .
the  fourth plane , United Airlines Flight 93 , was  targeted  at the United States Capitol in Washington , D.C. , but crashed into a field near Shanksville , Pennsylvania , after its passengers tried  to  overcome the  hijackers  .
In total , almost 3,000 people died in  the  attacks , including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes .
Suspicion quickly fell on al-Qaeda .
Although the group 's  नेता  , Osama bin Laden , initially denied any involvement , in 2004 he claimed responsibility  लिये  the attacks .
al-qaeda  and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel , the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia , and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks .
the  United States responded to the  हमले  by launching the War  on  Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose the Taliban ,  जिससे  had harbored al-Qaeda .
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation and expanded law enforcement powers .
Having evaded  कैप्चर  for years , bin Laden was located and killed by U.S. forces in May 2011 .
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other  गुण  caused serious damage to  the   अर्थव्यवस्था  of Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets .
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site was completed in May 2002 , and the Pentagon was repaired within a  साल  .
Numerous memorials have been  constructed   ,  including the National September  11  Memorial & Museum in New York  ,  the Pentagon Memorial , and the Flight 93  नेशनल  Memorial in Pennsylvania .
After a lengthy delay , the One World Trade Center is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in  नई  York City in  2013  .
Crater Lake National Park is a United States National Park located in southern Oregon  .
Established in 1902  ,  Crater  झील  National Park  is  the fifth oldest national park in the United States and the only one in the state of Oregon .
The park encompasses the caldera of Crater  झील  , a remnant of a destroyed volcano ,  माउंट  Mazama , and the surrounding hills and forests .
The lake is deep at its  deepest  point , which makes it the deepest lake in the United States , the second  deepest   in  North America and the ninth deepest in  the  world .
Crater Lake is often referred to as the  सातवाँ   deepest  lake in the world , but this former listing excludes  the  approximately depth  of  subglacial Lake Vostok in Antarctica , which resides under  nearly  of ice  ,  and the recent  रपट  of  a  maximum  गहराई   लिये  Lake O'Higgins  /san  Martin  ,   स्तिथ  on the border of Chile and Argentina .
However , when comparing its average depth of to the  औसत  depth of other deep lakes , Crater Lake becomes the  deepest  in  the  Western Hemisphere and the third deepest in the world .
The impressive average depth of this volcanic lake is due to  the  nearly  सममित  deep caldera formed 7,700 years ago  दौरान  the violent climactic eruptions and subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and the relatively moist climate that is typical of the  crest  of the Cascade Range .
The caldera rim ranges in  उन्नयन  from  .
The United States Geological Survey benchmarked elevation of the lake surface itself is  .
इस  National Park encompasses .
Crater  झील  has  no  streams flowing into or out  of  it .
All water that enters the lake is eventually lost from evaporation or subsurface seepage .
The lake 's water commonly  रै  a striking blue  वर्ण  , and the lake is re-filled entirely from direct  वर्षण   in  the form of snow and rain .
The Supreme Court of the United States is  the  highest court in the United States .
It has ultimate ( and largely discretionary  )  appellate jurisdiction over all federal courts and over state court cases  involving  issues of federal law , and original jurisdiction over a small  दायरा  of cases  .
The Court , which meets in the United States Supreme Court Building in Washington ,  d.C.  , consists of  a  chief justice and  आठ  associate justices who are nominated  by  the President and confirmed by the United States Senate .
Once appointed , justices have life  कार्यकाल   जबतक  they resign , retire , or are removed after impeachment .
conroe  is the seat of Montgomery  काउंटी  and falls within the metropolitan area .
It is  स्तिथ  about north of  ह्यूस्टन  .
As of July 2011 , the city population was 58,973 , up  इससे  36,811 in 2000 .
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the  latter  Day Saint movement , which adherents believe  contains  writings of ancient prophets who lived on the American continent from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421 .
It was first published in March 1830 by Joseph Smith as The Book of Mormon : An Account Written by the Hand  of  Mormon upon Plates Taken from the  प्लेटों  of Nephi .
according  to Smith 's account , and also  according  to the book 's narrative , the Book of Mormon  थी  originally written in otherwise unknown characters  referred  to  as  `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved on golden plates .
Smith claimed that the last  नबी  to contribute to the  किताब  , a man named Moroni , buried it in a hill  in   present-day  New York  और  then returned to earth  in  1827 as an angel  ,  revealing the location of the book to Smith and instructing him to translate and disseminate it as evidence  of  the restoration of Christ 's true church in the latter days .
The Book of Mormon has a number of  असली  and distinctive doctrinal discussions on subjects  ऐसे  as the fall of Adam  और  Eve , the nature of  the  Atonement  ,  eschatology , redemption  इससे  physical and spiritual death , and the organization of the latter-day church .
The pivotal event of the book is  an  appearance of Jesus Christ to the Americas shortly after his resurrection .
The Book of Mormon is the earliest  of  the  अद्वितीय  writings of the Latter  दिन  Saint movement , the denominations of which typically regard the text not only  as  scripture but also  as  a historical record of God 's  dealings  with the ancient inhabitants of the Americas .
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller books , titled after the individuals named as primary authors and , in most versions , divided  into  chapters and verses .
It is written in English , very similar to the  जल्दी  Modern English linguistic style of the King James Version of the Bible , and has since been fully or partially translated into 108 languages .
An enlisted rank ( also known as an enlisted grade or enlisted rate  )  is , in most militaries , any rank below that  of  a commissioned officer or warrant officer .
the  term can also be inclusive of non-commissioned officers .
In most cases ,  आयोजिक  service personnel perform jobs specific to  उनके   अपना  occupational specialty , as opposed to the more generalized command responsibilities of commissioned officers .
``  कया  a  अद्भुत  World '' is a song written by Bob Thiele ( as  ``  George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss  .
It was first recorded by Louis  आर्मस्ट्रांग  and  released  as a single in 1967 .
thiele  and Weiss were both prominent in the music  संसार  ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ) .
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999 .
The  प्रकाशन  for  इस  song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group , Carlin Music Corp. , and Bug Music ,  inc  .
1908 poster  विज्ञापन  Gaumont 's sound films .
The Chronomégaphone , designed for large halls , employed compressed air to amplify the recorded sound .
A sound film is a motion picture with  synchronized  sound , or sound technologically coupled to  चित्र  , as opposed to a silent film .
the  first  ज्ञात  public exhibition of projected sound films took place in Paris in 1900 , but decades would pass before sound motion  तस्वीरें  were made commercially practical  .
Reliable synchronization was difficult to  achieve  with the early sound-on-disc systems , and amplification and recording quality were also inadequate .
Innovations in sound-on-film led to the first  वाणिज्यिक  screening of short motion pictures using the technology , which took place in 1923 .
The primary steps in the commercialization of sound cinema were taken in the mid- to late 1920s  .
At first , the sound  films  incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking pictures '' , or `` talkies '' —were exclusively shorts ; the  earliest  feature-length movies with recorded sound included  तभी  music and effects  .
The first feature film originally presented  as  a talkie was The Jazz Singer , released in October 1927  .
A  प्रमुख  hit ,  it  was  बना  with Vitaphone , the leading  ब्रांड  of sound-on-disc technology .
Sound-on-film , however , would  जल्द  become the standard for talking pictures  .
By the early 1930s  ,  the talkies were a global  घटना  .
in  the United States , they helped secure Hollywood 's position as one of the world 's most powerful cultural/commercial systems ( see Cinema of the United States ) .
In Europe ( and , to a lesser degree , elsewhere ) the new  विकास  was treated with suspicion by many filmmakers and critics , who worried that a focus on dialogue would subvert  the  unique aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema .
In Japan , where the  लोकप्रिय  film tradition integrated silent movie and  सजीव  vocal performance , talking pictures were slow  to  take root .
In India , sound was the transformative element that led to the rapid expansion of the  स्वदेश  's film industry—the most productive such industry in the world since the early 1960s  .
African people are natives or  निवासियों  of Africa and  लोगों  of African descent .
The Australian Recording Industry Association  म्यूज़िक  Awards ( commonly  ज्ञात  as ARIA Music Awards or ARIA Awards )  is  an annual series  of  awards nights  celebrating  the Australian music  उद्योग  , put on by the Australian  रिकॉर्डिंग  Industry Association (  aria  )  .
the  event has been held annually since 1987  और  encompasses the general genre-specific and popular awards ( these are what is  प्रायः  being  referred  to as `` the ARIA awards '' ) as well as Fine Arts Awards and Artisan Awards ( held separately from 2004  )  , Lifetime Achievement Awards and ARIA  हॉल   of  Fame – held  separately  from 2005 to 2010 but returned to the general ceremony in 2011 .
लिये  2010 , ARIA introduced public voted awards for the first time .
Winning , or even being nominated for  ,  an ARIA award results in a lot of media attention on an artist , and usually increases recording sales several-fold – in 2005 , for example ,  बाद   बेन  Lee won three awards , his album Awake Is the New Sleep jumped from No . 31 to No . 5 in the ARIA  चार्ट  , its  उच्चतम  position .
For-profit education (  भी  known as the education services industry or proprietary education ) refers to educational institutions operated by private , profit -seeking businesses .
There are  तीन  types of for-profit schools .
One type is known as an educational  प्रबन्धन  organization ( EMO ) , and these are primary and secondary educational institutions .
EMOs work with school districts or charter schools , using public funds to finance operations .
The majority of for-profit schools in the K–12  सेक्टर  in America  फलन  as  emos  , and have grown in number in the mid-2000s .
The other major category of for-profit schools are post-secondary institutions which operate as businesses , receiving fees from each student they enroll .
a  third  प्रकार   of  for-profit schools , which is  कम  prevalent  in  the  संयुक्त  States , are K–12 schools which operate as businesses .
EMOs function differently from charter  स्कूलों  created in order to carry out a particular teaching pedagogy ; most charter schools are mission-oriented  ,  while EMOs and other for-profit institutions are market-oriented .
While supporters  argue   कि  the profit motive encourages efficiency , this arrangement has also drawn controversy and criticism .
Kevin Carey , director of the education policy program of the New American Foundation said in a 2010  कालम  in The  वृत्तान्त  of Higher Education that `` For-profits  मौजूद  in large part to fix educational market failures left  by   परंपरागत  institutions , and they profit by serving students that public  और  private nonprofit institutions too often ignore . ''
He also noted that `` There 's no doubt  कि  the worst for-profits are  निर्मम  exploiting the commodified  कॉलेज  degree .
But they did n't commodify it in the first place . ''
Amendment XXII  in  the National Archives
The Twenty-second Amendment of the United  राज्य  Constitution sets a term limit for election to the  दफ्तर  of President of the United States .
कॉंग्रेस  passed the amendment on  कूच  21 , 1947 .
It was ratified by the requisite number of states on February 27 , 1951 .
This is an episode guide for the anime series Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo  .
This list encompasses every episode , beginning with the original Japanese-language title as they aired on TV Asahi , followed by the title used in the English dubbed version airing in the United States on Cartoon Network .
A short summary will follow ,  introducing  the episode and referring to  कुछ  of the gags , but not  giving  the complete summaries to the episodes .
All names and some of the references will be the  ones  used from the English-language version to avoid confusion .
Japanese names may be  प्रस्तुत  after the dub name in parentheses .
This article is about the  पब्लिक  park in New York City .
For other uses , see Central Park ( disambiguation  )  .
Central Park is a public park at the center  of  Manhattan in New York City .
The park initially opened in 1857 , on of city-owned land ( it is 843  एकड़  today ) .
In 1858 , Frederick Law Olmsted  और  Calvert Vaux won a design competition to improve and expand  the  park with a plan they entitled the Greensward Plan  .
Construction began the same year , continued during the American Civil War  ,  and was completed in 1873 .
Central Park is the most visited urban park in the United States .
Designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962 , the park is currently managed by the Central Park Conservancy under  अनुबंध  with  the  city  सरकारी   .
The Conservancy is a non-profit organization  कि  contributes 83.5 % of Central Park 's $ 37.5 million annual budget , and employs 80.7 % of the park 's maintenance staff .
TracFone Wireless , Inc. is a prepaid wireless service provider  ऑपरेटिंग  in the United States  सहित  Puerto Rico and the US Virgin  आइलैंड्स  and is a subsidiary  of  Mexico 's largest telecommunications provider , América Móvil .
As a Mobile Virtual Network Operator (  mvno  ) , TracFone Wireless holds  अनेक  agreements with the US  largest  wireless telecommunications companies to utilize  उनके  networks to provide service including those of Verizon ,  at  &  t  ,  स्प्रिंट  , and T-Mobile .
TracFone  बेतार  offers  इसके  wireless products under multiple brands which each also offer distinctive service plans  ,  the brands include TracFone  ,  NET10 Wireless , Straight Talk , SafeLink Wireless , Telcel América and Simple Mobile .
A grab dredge
dredging  is an excavation activity or operation usually carried out at  तनिक  partly  भाटे  , in shallow seas or fresh water areas with the purpose  of  gathering up bottom  sediments  and disposing of them  at  a different location  .
This technique is often used to keep waterways navigable .
It is also used as a way to  replenish   बालू  on some public beaches ,  जहाँ   बालू  has been lost because of coastal  अपरदन  .
Dredging is also used as a technique for fishing for certain species of  खाद्य  clams  और  crabs  ,  see fishing dredge  .
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general usage in the Americas ) is  कोई  device , machine  ,  or vessel that is used to excavate and remove material from  the  bottom  of  a body of water .
For example , a scoop attached to the end of a rope or pole by which a man can draw sediments up from the bottom of a pond is  a  dredger .
Developing this idea further , a motorized crane equipped with a  खीचें  bucket or clamshell (  grabber  ) that is used  to  scoop  सामग्री   इससे   the  bottom  of  a body of water is also a dredger .
The crane could be located  on  the bank ,  or   शायद   आरोहित  on a barge .
If the crane is mounted on a barge , the entire vessel is referred to as  a  dredger .
The process of dredging creates spoils (  excess  material ) , which are carried away  इससे  the dredged area .
Dredging can produce materials for land reclamation or other purposes  (  usually construction-related ) , and has also historically played a significant role in gold mining .
dredging  can create disturbance in aquatic ecosystems , often with adverse impacts .
क्लीवलैंड  Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed from the International Space Station , May 2006 .
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km during the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo  ,  Philippines in  1991  .
A volcano is  an  opening , or rupture  ,  in  a  planet 's surface or crust , which allows hot magma , volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the  सतह  .
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic  प्लेटों  are  diverging  or converging .
A mid-oceanic ridge , for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge , has examples of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of  ज्वालामुखी  caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together .
by  contrast , volcanoes are usually not created where two tectonic plates slide past  एक  another .
ज्वालामुखी   can  also  रूप  where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in  the  interiors of plates , e.g.  ,  in the  ईस्ट  African  दरार   ,  the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America .
This  प्रकार  of volcanism falls under the umbrella of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism .
Volcanism away from plate boundaries has  भी   महरूम  explained as mantle plumes .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example Hawaii ,  हैं  postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary , 3,000 km deep  in  the Earth .
erupting  volcanoes can pose many hazards , not only in the immediate  vicinity  of the eruption .
Volcanic ash  can  be a threat to aircraft , in particular those with jet engines where ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature .
Large  eruptions  can  affect  temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric  एसिड  obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ;  however  , they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
historically  , so-called volcanic winters have  caused  catastrophic  अकाल  .
Benedict Arnold ( June 14  ,  1801 ) was  a  general during the American Revolutionary War who originally fought for  the  American Continental Army but defected  to  the British Army .
While a general on the American side , he obtained command of the fort at West Point , New  यॉर्क  , and planned  to   आत्मसमर्पण  it to the British  शक्तियां  .
After the  योजना  was  उजागर   in  September 1780 , he was commissioned  into  the British Army as a brigadier general .
Born in Connecticut , Arnold was a merchant operating ships on the  अटलांटिक  Ocean when the war  broke  out in 1775 .
After joining the growing army outside Boston  ,  he distinguished himself through acts of intelligence and  वीरता  .
His actions included the Capture of Fort Ticonderoga in 1775  ,   रक्षात्मक  and delaying tactics despite losing the Battle of Valcour Island on Lake Champlain  in  1776 , the Battle of Ridgefield , Connecticut ( after which he was promoted to major general ) , operations in  राहत  of the Siege of Fort Stanwix , and key actions  दौरान  the pivotal Battles of Saratoga in 1777 , in which  he  suffered leg injuries that ended his  कॉम्बैट  career for several years .
Despite Arnold 's successes ,  he  was passed over for promotion by the Continental Congress while other officers  claimed  credit for some of his accomplishments .
Adversaries in military and political circles brought charges of corruption or other malfeasance , but most often he was acquitted in formal inquiries .
Congress  investigated   उसके  accounts and found he was indebted to Congress after spending much of his own money  on  the war  प्रयत्न  .
Frustrated  और  bitter ,  अर्नाल्ड  decided to  बदलें  sides in 1779 ,  और  opened secret negotiations with the British .
In July 1780 , he was offered , continued to pursue and was awarded command of West  पाइंट  .
अर्नाल्ड  's scheme to surrender the  फोर्ट  to the British was exposed when American forces captured British  प्रमुख   जॉन  André carrying papers that revealed the plot .
Upon learning of André 's capture , Arnold fled down the Hudson River  to  the British sloop-of-war Vulture  ,  narrowly avoiding  कैप्चर  by the forces of George Washington , who had been alerted to the  प्लाट  .
अर्नाल्ड  received a  आयोग  as a brigadier general in the British Army , an annual pension of £360 , and a lump sum of over £6,000  .
He led British forces  on  raids in Virginia , and against New London and Groton , Connecticut , before the war effectively ended with the American victory at Yorktown  .
In the  शीत  of 1782 , Arnold  स्थानांतरित  to London with  उसके  second wife  ,  Margaret `` Peggy '' Shippen Arnold .
He was well received by  किंग  George III  और  the Tories but frowned upon by the Whigs .
In 1787 , he returned to the merchant business with his sons Richard and Henry in  संत  John , New Brunswick .
He returned  to  London to settle permanently in 1791 , where he died ten years later .
Because of  the  way he changed sides , his name quickly became a in the United  राज्य  for treason  or  betrayal .
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the ambiguous nature of some of the memorials that have been  लगाई  in his honor .
Curtis Montague Schilling ( born November 14 , 1966 ) is a former American  प्रमुख  League Baseball right-handed  पिचर  and Video Game developer .
He helped lead the Philadelphia Phillies to the World Series in and won World Series championships  in  with the Arizona Diamondbacks and in and with the Boston Red  sox  .
Schilling retired  साथ  a career postseason record of 11–2 .
His .846 postseason winning  प्रतिशत  is a major-league record among  pitchers  with  at  least 10  निर्णय  .
After retiring , he founded Green Monster Games which was renamed 38 Studios .
The company released Kingdoms of  amalur  : Reckoning in February 2012 , but just three months later , Schilling laid off his entire staff amid severe financial  परेशानियों  that resulted in the company missing payroll  the  previous week .
Star Wars is an American  एपिक  space  ओपेरा  franchise centered on a film series created by George Lucas .
The film series has spawned a media franchise outside the  फिल्मी  series called the Expanded Universe including books , television series , computer  और  video games , and comic books .
These supplements to the  फिल्मी  trilogies have resulted  in  significant development of the series  '  fictional universe .
These media kept the franchise active in the interim between the film  trilogies  .
The  मताधिकार   portrays  a galaxy that is described as far , far away in the distant past .
It commonly portrays Jedi as  a  representation of good , in conflict with the Sith , their evil counterpart  .
Their weapon of choice , the lightsaber , is commonly recognized in popular culture .
The fictional universe also contains many themes , especially influences of philosophy and religion .
The first film  in  the series was originally released on May 25 , 1977  ,  under the title  स्टार  Wars , by 20th Century Fox , and became a worldwide  पॉप  culture phenomenon , followed by two sequels , released at  three-year   intervals  .
Sixteen years after the release of the trilogy 's final film , the first in a new prequel trilogy of films  थी  released .
The three prequel films were also  released  at three-year intervals , with the final film of  the  trilogy released  on  May 19 , 2005 .
In October 2012 , The Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm for $ 4.05 billion and announced that  it  would produce three new films ,  साथ  the first film , Star Wars Episode VII , planned for release in  2015   .
20th Century  फॉक्स  still  retains  the distribution  अधिकारों   to  the first  दो  Star Wars trilogies ,  owning  permanent rights for the original film Episode  iv  : A New Hope ,  जबकि  holding the rights to Episodes I–III , V and VI  जबतक   may  2020 .
Reactions to the original trilogy were mostly positive , with the last film being considered  the  weakest , while the prequel  त्रयी  received a more mixed reaction , with most of the praise being for the final movie  ,  according to most review aggregator websites .
All six of the main films in the series were also nominated for or won Academy Awards  .
All of  the  main films have been box office successes , with the  overall  box  दफ्तर  revenue  उत्पन्न  by  the  Star Wars films ( including the  नाट्य  Star  युद्धों  : The Clone Wars ) totalling $ 4.49 billion , making it the third-highest-grossing film series .
The success has also led to multiple  re-releases  in theaters for the series .
Plateletpheresis ( more accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis , though these names  हैं  rarely used ) is the process of  collecting  thrombocytes , more commonly called  प्लेटलेट्स  ,  a  component of blood involved in blood clotting .
The  पद  specifically refers to  the  method of collecting the platelets , which is performed by a device used in blood donation that separates the platelets and returns other portions of the blood to the donor .
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating serious complications  इससे  bleeding and hemorrhage in patients who have disorders manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( low platelet count ) or  platelet   dysfunction   .
इस  process may also be  प्रयुक्त  therapeutically to treat disorders resulting in extraordinarily high platelet counts such as essential thrombocytosis .
In computer networking , a port  is  an application-specific or process-specific software construct  सेवारत  as a communications  endpoint  in a computer  's  host operating system .
A port is associated with  an  IP address of the host , as well as  the  type of protocol used for communication .
the  purpose of ports is to uniquely identify different applications or processes  कार्यशील  on a single computer and thereby enable them to share a single physical  कनेक्शन  to a packet-switched network like the Internet .
The protocols  कि   primarily  use ports are the  हस्तांतरण  Layer  प्रोटोकॉल  ,  ऐसे  as the Transmission Control Protocol ( TCP  )  and the User  datagram  Protocol ( UDP ) of the Internet Protocol Suite .
a   बंदरगाहों  is identified for  प्रत्येक  address and protocol by a 16-bit number , commonly known as the port number .
The port number  ,   added  to a computer 's IP address  ,  completes the destination address for a communications session .
कि   is  , data packets are routed across the network to a specific destination IP address , and then , upon reaching the destination computer , are further routed to the specific process bound to the destination port number .
Note that  it  is the combination of IP address and port number together that must be globally unique  .
Thus , different IP addresses or  प्रोटोकॉल  may use the same port  क्रमांक  for communication ; e.g. ,  on   a  given host or interface  यूडीपी  and TCP may use the same port number , or on a host  साथ  two interfaces , both addresses may be associated with a port having the same number .
Of the thousands of enumerated ports , about 250 well-known ports are reserved by convention to  पहचानो  specific service types on a  मेजबान   .
In the client-server model of application architecture , ports  हैं  used to provide a multiplexing service  on  each server-side port number that network clients connect to for service initiation , after which  संचार  can be reestablished on other connection-specific port numbers .
Area code 479 is the telephone area code serving thirteen counties in northwest Arkansas , including the cities of Fort Smith , Fayetteville , Springdale , Rogers and Bentonville : the second ,  तीसरा  , fourth , eighth and tenth-largest cities in the state ,  क्रमशः  .
It was created in 2002 in a split  इससे   क्षेत्रफल  code 501 .
Area code 479 serves  benton  , Carroll (  विभाजित  with area code 870 ) , Crawford ,  फ्रैंकलिन  , Johnson , Logan ,  मैडिसन  , Polk , Pope , Scott , Sebastian , Washington and Yell Counties in Arkansas .
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal charging document in the presence of the defendant to inform  the  defendant of  the  charges against him or her .
In response to  arraignment  ,  the  accused is expected to enter a plea .
स्वीकार्य  pleas vary among jurisdictions , but they generally include `` guilty '' ,  ``   नहीं  guilty '' , and the peremptory  pleas  ( or pleas in  बार  ) setting out reasons why a trial can not proceed .
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no contest ) and the  ``  Alford plea `` are allowed in some circumstances .
In  इंग्लैण्ड  , Wales , Northern Ireland and Australia , arraignment is  the   पहला  of eleven stages in a criminal  विचारण  , and involves the clerk of the court reading  आउट  the indictment .
the  defendant is asked whether he or she pleads guilty  or  not  अपराधी  to each charge .
In federal courts of the  संयुक्त  States ,  arraignment  takes place in two stages .
the  first is called  the  initial arraignment and must take place  भीतर  48 hours of an individual 's arrest , 72 hours if the  व्यक्तिगत  was arrested on the weekend and not able to go before a judge until Monday .
During  इस   arraignment  the defendant is informed of the pending legal charges and is informed of his or  उसके  right to retain counsel .
The presiding  न्यायधीश  also decides  at  what amount , if any ,  to  set bail .
During the second arraignment , a post-indictment arraignment or PIA  ,   the  defendant is allowed to enter a plea .
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343  –  25 October 1400 ) , known as the Father of English literature , is widely considered the greatest English poet of the Middle Ages  और  was the first poet to have  महरूम  buried in Poet 's Corner of Westminster  ऐबी  .
While he achieved  कीर्ति  during his lifetime as an author ,  पारस  , alchemist and astronomer , composing a scientific treatise on the astrolabe for  उसके  ten year-old son  लुईस  , Chaucer also maintained an active career in  the  civil service as a bureaucrat ,  नवरत्नों  and diplomat  .
Among  उसके  many works , which include The Book of the Duchess ,  the  House of Fame , the Legend of Good Women  और  Troilus and Criseyde , he is best known today  लिये  The Canterbury Tales .
Chaucer is a crucial figure in developing the legitimacy of the vernacular , Middle English , at a time when the dominant literary  भाषाएं  in England were French and Latin .
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a major  blizzard  that affected northern Illinois and northwest Indiana , U.S. on January  13  – January  14  , 1979 .
of snow fell on January 13 alone , setting a new record for snow  in  one calendar  दिन  .
By the end of  जनवरी  14 , of snow had fallen  .
The cold weather and snowfall  throughout  the rest of January and February resulted in frozen tracks throughout the Chicago 'L ' system .
Commuters crowded onto  cta  buses ,  जल्दी  overwhelming capacity , resulting in usual bus  commutes  of 30-45 minutes taking up to several hours .
To avoid huge snowdrifts in the streets , the overcrowded buses were obliged to take numerous detours , adding additional  समय  to the commute  .
Deployment of  plows   थी  significantly delayed and  जब  they finally appeared they struggled to  रखना  up with the snowfall .
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the next 2 months , causing  जारी  public transit delays and significant  समस्याएं  with trash collection .
The city 's inadequate response to the blizzard was blamed primarily on mayor Michael Bilandic , who  था  assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley .
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane  byrne  , Bilandic 's main political  प्रतिद्वंद्वी  in the  लोकतांत्रिक  primary (  जो  had previously worked with Bilandic in the Daley administration and been fired by Bilandic when  the  two could not get along )  ,  capitalized on this and went on to  शिकस्त  Bilandic in the February 27 primary .
The 12-hour clock is a time convention  in  which  the  24 hours of the day are divided into two periods : a.m. ( from the Latin ante meridiem  ,   अर्थ  `` before midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem  ,  `` after midday '' ) .
Each  काल  consists of 12 hours numbered : 12 ( acting  as  zero  )  ,  1  , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 ,  8  , 9 , 10 , and 11 .
The 12-hour clock was  विकसित  over  समय  from the  mid-second  millennium BC to  the  16th century AD .
Health  बिता  per capita  ,   in  $ US PPP-adjusted , with the US and Canada compared amongst other first world  राष्ट्र  .
Comparison of the health care systems in Canada and the United States are often made by government , public health  और  public policy analysts .
The  दो  countries had similar health care systems before  कनाडा  reformed its system in the 1960s and 1970s .
the  United States spends much more  धन  on health care than Canada ,  on  both a per-capita  आधार   और  as a percentage of  जीडीपी  .
In 2006 , per-capita spending for health  परवाह  in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In 2006 , 70  %  of health care spending in  कनाडा  was financed by government , versus 46 % in the United States  .
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than  कनाडाई  government spending , and U.S. government expenditure on  स्वास्थ्य  care was just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public and private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population  मतभेद  .
अध्ययन  have come  to  different  conclusions  about the result of this disparity in spending .
a  2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a  कनाडाई  peer-reviewed medical journal  मिला  that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United States  ,  but differences are not consistent . ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada , and its infant mortality rate is  निम्नतर  than that of  the  U.S. , but there is debate about the  underlying  causes of these differences .
One  commonly  cited  तुलना  , the 2000 World Health  संगठन  's ratings of `` overall health service performance  ''  , which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level  of  health , the distribution of health , the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '' , ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '' , or quality of service for individuals  receiving  treatment , as 1st , compared with 7th for Canada .
While the  औसत  life expectancy  लिये  Canadians was 80.34  सालो  compared with 78.6 years  लिये  residents  of  the US , simply comparing  the  life expectancy of  दो  groups with different racial  मेकअप  and different obesity rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare system is superior .
the  WHO 's study methods were criticized by some analyses .
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the  सबसे   विश्वसनीय  ways to compare nation-wide health care , assuming the population makeup is similar  ,  a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons .
Tarantulas comprise a group of often hairy and very large  arachnids  belonging to the Theraphosidae family of spiders , of which approximately 900 species have  महरूम  identified .
इस  article only describes members of Theraphosidae , although some other members of the same suborder are commonly referred to as `` tarantulas '' .
Most species of tarantulas are not dangerous to humans , and some species have become popular in the exotic pet trade .
The ton  is  a unit of measure .
It has a long history and has acquired a number of meanings and uses over the years .
It is used principally as a unit of weight , and as  a  unit of volume .
It can also be used as a measure of energy , for  ट्रक   वर्गीकरण  , or as a colloquial term  .
It is derived from  the   tun  , the term applied to a  बैरल  of the largest size .
This could contain a volume  between  210 and 256 gallons  (  800 to 1000 L ) , which could weigh around 2,000 pounds ( 900 kg ) and occupy some of space .
In the United Kingdom the ton is defined as ( avoirdupois pounds )  .
From 1965 the UK embarked  upon  a programme of metrication and gradually introduced metric units , including the tonne ( metric ton  )  , a non-SI metric unit defined as 1000 kg .
The UK Weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded from use  लिये  trade many units and terms , including  the  ton and  the  term  ``   मीट्रिक  ton '' for  ``  tonne ''
In the United States and formerly Canada a  ton   is  defined to be .
Where confusion is possible , the 2240  lb   ton  is called `` long ton ``  और  the 2000 lb ton `` short ton `` ; the tonne is distinguished by its spelling , but  प्रायः  pronounced the same as ton , hence the US term `` metric ton '' .
In the UK the  फाइनल  `` e '' of `` tonne ''  can  also be pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ )  ,  or ``  मीट्रिक  ton '' when it is necessary to make the distinction .
Where accuracy is required the correct term must be used  ,  but for many purposes this  is   नहीं  necessary : the metric and long tons differ by only 1.6 % , and the short ton  is   भीतर  11 % of both  .
The ton is the heaviest unit of weight referred to in colloquial  वाक  .
The term `` ton '' is also used to refer to a number of units of  आवाज़  , ranging from in  क्षमता  .
It can also be used as a unit  of  energy , expressed as an equivalent of coal burnt , TNT detonated , or in refrigeration , ice melted .
In Britain , ton is used in slang in several contexts to mean `` 100 '' .
As a cost or a speed ,  a  ton is widely understood to be £100 or 100  किमी  .
The Stanley  कप  ( )  is  the championship trophy awarded annually to the National Hockey League  (  NHL  )  playoff winner after the conclusion of the Stanley Cup Finals .
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup , the  ट्रॉफी  is named for Lord Stanley of Preston , then- Governor General of Canada , who  awarded  it  to  Canada 's  top-ranking   amateur  ice hockey club , which  the  entire Stanley family supported , with  the  sons and daughters  playing  and promoting the game .
The  पहला  Cup was awarded in 1893 to Montreal  hc  .
In 1915 , the two professional ice  हॉकी  organizations , the National Hockey Association ( NHA  )   और  the  प्रशांत  Coast  हॉकी   संघ  ( PCHA ) , reached a gentlemen 's agreement in  जिससे  their respective champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup .
After a series of league mergers and folds , the  स्टेनली  `` Presentation Cup '' was established as the  de  facto championship trophy of the  एनएचएल  in 1926 and then  the  de jure NHL championship  पुरस्कार  in 1947 .
There are actually three  स्टेनली  Cups : the original bowl of  the  `` Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup '' , the authenticated `` Presentation Cup '' , and the  ``  Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame .
The NHL has maintained effective control over both the trophy itself and its associated  trademarks  .
Nevertheless , the NHL does not actually own the trophy , but instead uses it by agreement with the two Trustees of the Cup .
The NHL has  पंजीकृत  trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup , although the league 's right to outright own trademarks associated with a trophy  it  does not own has been disputed by some legal experts .
Unlike the trophies  awarded  by the other three major professional sports leagues of North America  ,  a new Stanley Cup is not made each year ; winners keep  it  until a new champion is  पहनाया  .
It is unusual among trophies , in that it has the names of all of the winning players , coaches  ,  management , and club staff engraved on its chalice  .
Initially  ,  a new band added each year caused the trophy to grow in size , earning the  उपनाम  `` Stovepipe Cup '' .
In 1958  the  modern one-piece Cup was designed with a  five-band   बैरल  which could contain 13  जीतना  teams per band .
To avoid the Stanley Cup from growing , when the bottom band is full , the oldest band is removed and preserved in the Hockey Hall of Fame , and a new blank band added to the bottom .
It has been referred to as The Cup , Lord Stanley 's Cup , The Holy Grail , or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as Lord Stanley  's   मग  .
The Stanley Cup  is  surrounded by  numerous  legends and traditions ,  the  oldest  of  which is the celebratory drinking of champagne out of the cup by the winning team .
The original  कटोरी  was made of silver and is 18.5 centimetres ( 7.28 inches ) in height and 29 centimetres ( 11.42 inches ) in diameter .
The current Stanley Cup , topped with a copy  of  the original bowl , is made of a silver and nickel alloy  ;  it has a  ऊँचाई   of  89.54  सेण्टीमीटर  ( 35.25 inches ) and weighs 15.5 kilograms ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ) .
Since the 1914–15 season ,  the  Cup has been won a combined 94 times by 18  क्रियाशील  NHL teams and five defunct teams .
prior  to that , the challenge cup was held by nine different teams .
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Cup a record 24 times and  हैं  currently the last Canadian-based team in the NHL to win the cup after winning it in  1993   .
The Stanley Cup  थी  not awarded in 1919 because  of  a Spanish flu epidemic , and in 2005 , as a consequence of the NHL lockout .
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus )  is  a tropical plant with edible multiple fruit consisting of coalesced berries , and  the  most economically significant  संयंत्र  in the Bromeliaceae  परिवार  .
Pineapples may be cultivated from a crown cutting of the fruit , possibly  flowering   in  20–24 months and  fruiting  in the following six months .
Pineapple does  नहीं  ripen  significantly  post-harvest .
Pineapples are consumed fresh , cooked  ,   juiced  , and preserved , and are found in a wide array of cuisines .
In addition to consumption , in the Philippines the pineapple 's leaves are used  to  produce the textile fiber piña - employed as a component of wall paper and furnishings , amongst  अन्य  uses .
in  computer science , an integer is a datum of  अभिन्न  data type , a data type which represents some finite subset of the mathematical integers .
Integral data  प्रकार  may be of different sizes and may or may not be allowed to contain negative values .
Integers are commonly represented in  a  computer as  a  group of binary digits .
The size of the grouping varies so the set of integer sizes available varies between different  प्रकार  of computers .
Computer hardware nearly always provides a way to represent a processor  पंजीकरण  or memory address as an integer .
The Gordon Dam in Tasmania is a large hydro facility , with an installed  क्षमता  of .
Hydroelectricity is the term referring to electricity generated by hydropower ; the production  of  electrical power through the use  of  the gravitational force of falling or flowing water .
It is the most widely used form of renewable energy , accounting for 16 percent of global electricity generation – 3,427 terawatt-hours  of  electricity production in 2010 , and is expected to increase  परिचय   3.1  % each  साल  for the next 25 years .
Hydropower is produced in 150  देशों  , with the Asia-Pacific  प्रदेश  generating 32 percent of global  hydropower  in 2010 .
China is the largest  hydroelectricity  producer , with  721  terawatt-hours of  उत्पादन  in 2010 , representing around 17 percent of domestic electricity use .
There are now three  hydroelectricity  plants larger than 10 GW : the Three Gorges Dam in China  ,  Itaipu Dam across the Brazil/Paraguay border , and Guri Dam in Venezuela .
the  cost of  hydroelectricity  is relatively low , making it a competitive source of renewable electricity .
The average cost of electricity from a hydro plant larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour .
Hydro is also a flexible source of electricity since plants can be ramped up and down very  जल्दी  to adapt to changing energy demands .
However , damming interrupts the flow of  नदियाँ  and  can  harm local ecosystems , and building  विशाल   dams  and reservoirs often involves displacing people and  वन्यजीव  .
Once a hydroelectric  जटिल  is constructed , the project  produces  no  सीधा   बर्बाद  , and has a considerably lower output  स्तर  of  the  greenhouse gas carbon dioxide ( ) than fossil fuel powered energy plants .
Wine boy at a Greek symposium
The history  of  wine spans thousands of years and is  closely  intertwined with the history of agriculture , cuisine , civilization and humanity itself .
Archaeological evidence suggests that the earliest known  वाइन  production occurred in what is now the country of Georgia around 7000 BCE , with  अन्य  notable sites in Greater Iran dated 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE  ,  respectively .
The world 's oldest known winery ( dated to 3000 BCE ) was discovered in Areni-1 cave  in  a mountainous area of Armenia .
url_http  .
Increasingly clear archaeological evidence indicates that domestication of  the  grapevine took place during the Early Bronze  आयु  in the Near East , Sumer and  मिश्र  from around the third  मिलेनियम  BCE .
Evidence of  the  earliest wine production in Balkans has been uncovered at archaeological sites in northern Greece ( Macedonia ) , dated to 4500 BC  .
These same sites also  contain   remnants  of the world 's earliest evidence  of  crushed grapes .
In Egypt , wine  became  a part of recorded history , playing an important role in ancient ceremonial life .
Traces of  जंगली   वाइन  dating from the second and first millennia BCE have also been found in China .
मोरक्कन   वाइन  Kasher label 1930
The Jewish tradition and use of kosher wine  is  dating  वापस  to biblical times .
The long history of the use and production of wine  throughout  ancient Israel is backed up by archeological evidence .
Within the  यहूदी  diaspora communities all around  the  globe , the traditional  और  religious use of kosher wine continued to  इस  day .
Wine ,  linked  in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus , was common in  प्राचीन  Greece and Rome  ,  and many of today 's major wine-producing regions of Western Europe were established with Phoenician and , later , Roman plantations  .
Winemaking technology improved considerably during  the  time of the Roman Empire : many grape varieties  और  cultivation techniques were known ; the design of the wine press advanced ; and barrels were developed for storing and shipping wine .
Rashi , a medieval French rabbi and called  the  `` father '' of all commentaries that followed on the Talmud and the Tanakh , earned his living as a vintner .
Following the decline of Rome  और  its industrial-scale wine production for export  ,  the Christian Church in medieval  यूरोपीय  also became a firm supporter of wine , necessary  लिये   जश्न  of the Catholic Mass  .  Whereas wine was forbidden in  मध्यकालीन  Islamic cultures , its use in Christian libation was widely  tolerated  .
Geber and other Muslim chemists  pioneered  the distillation of  वाइन  for Islamic medicinal and industrial purposes such as perfume .
Wine production gradually increased  ,  with consumption burgeoning from the 15th century onwards .
Wine production survived the devastating Phylloxera louse of 1887 and eventually spread to numerous regions throughout the world .
Districts of West Bengal
The  भारतीय  state of West Bengal borders with Nepal  ,  Bhutan , Bangladesh and the Indian states of Bihar , Jharkhand , Odisha , Assam and Sikkim  .
The Himalayas lies  in  the north of the state and the  खाड़ी  of Bengal is at the south .
In between them , the river Ganges flows eastwards and its main distributary , the Hooghly River , flows south to reach  the  Bay of Bengal .
the  Siliguri Corridor , which connects North-East India with rest of the India , lies in the North  बंगाल  region of the state .
Geographically , West Bengal is divided into a  किस्में  of regions— Darjeeling Himalayan hill region  ,  Terai and Doors region , North Bengal plains ,  rarh  region ,  पश्चिमी  plateau and high lands  ,  coastal plains , Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta .
In 1947 , when  इण्डिया  gained independence , the state of West Bengal was formed with 14 districts , as per partition plan  of  the then Bengal province of British India .
The former princely state Koch  बिहार  joined as  a  district in 1950 , and the  पूर्व   फ्रेंच   एन्क्लेव  Chandannagore joined as part of the Hooghly district in 1954 .
The  राज्य  Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to  जोड  of Purulia district to the state and to enlargement of West Dinajpur district .
Later , larger districts such as West Dinajpur ,  24  Parganas and Midnapore were bifurcated .
West Bengal is now divided into nineteen districts under three divisions .
Districts are administered  by  District Magistrates , and divisions are administered by Divisional Commissioners .
Kolkata  ,  the capital of the state , constitutes  the  Kolkata  ज़िला  .
Other districts are further divided into administrative units such as subdivisions and blocks , administered by SDO and BDO , respectively  .
The Panchayati Raj has a  three-tier  structure in the  राज्य  .
The atomic unit is called a Gram Panchayat , which is the Panchayat organization for  a  collection of villages .
The block-level organizations are called Panchayat Samiti , and the district-level organizations are named Zilla Parishad  .
The Caribbean ( or  ;  ; ; or more  commonly  Antilles ) is a  प्रदेश  that consists of the Caribbean Sea , its islands ( some surrounded by the Caribbean Sea and some bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean )  ,  and the surrounding coasts .
The region is southeast of the Gulf of  मैक्सिको  and the North  अमरीकी  mainland , east of Central America , and north of South America  .
Situated largely on the Caribbean Plate , the region comprises more than 700 islands , islets , reefs , and cays .
( See the  सूची  . )
These islands generally form  द्वीप  arcs that delineate the eastern and northern edges of the Caribbean Sea .
The Caribbean islands , consisting of the Greater Antilles on the north and the Lesser Antilles  on  the south and east ( including the Leeward Antilles ) , are part of the somewhat larger West Indies  समूहीकरण  , which also includes the  lucayan  Archipelago ( comprising the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands ) north of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean  समुद्र  .
In a wider sense ,  the   मेनलैंड   देशों   of  Belize and Guyana –  historically  and culturally part of the British West Indies – may be included .
Geopolitically , the Caribbean islands are  प्रायः  regarded as a subregion of  उत्तर  America and are organized into 30 territories including sovereign states  ,  overseas  विभाग   ,  and dependencies .
इससे   जनवरी  3 , 1958 , to May 31 , 1962 , there was a short-lived country called the Federation of the West Indies composed of ten English-speaking Caribbean territories , all of which were then UK dependencies .
The West Indies cricket team continues to represent many of those nations .
This is a list of the 221 towns  और  13 cities in the U.S.  राज्य  of New Hampshire  .
For each town/city ,  the  table lists the county to which it belongs , its date of  incorporation  , its population according to the  2010  census , its form of government , and its principal villages .
Cities are indicated in boldface .
शहरों  and towns are treated identically under state law .
Cities are just  कस्बों   जिनकी   रूप  of  सरकारी  was changed by a special act of the New Hampshire legislature .
However , towns currently are able to change their form of government by  सरल  voter approval of  a  new municipal charter , with several of  the  more populous towns having already done so .
the  main slave routes in medieval Africa .
This article discusses systems , history , and effects of slavery within Africa .
देखिए   अरब  slave trade , Atlantic slave trade ,  maafa  , and Slavery in contemporary Africa for  अन्य  discussions .
``  स्लेव  transport in Africa '' .
Europeans usually did not  डालें  the interior regions .
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout the continent for many centuries , and continues in the current day .
Systems of  servitude  and slavery were common in many parts  of  the continent , as they were in much of the ancient world .
In most African societies  जहाँ  slavery was prevalent , the  enslaved  people  यहूद  largely  treated  as indentured servants and not treated as chattel  स्लेव  .
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began , many of  the  local slave systems changed and began supplying captives for slave markets outside of Africa  .
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different forms and some  of   ये  do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world .
Debt slavery  ,  enslavement of war captives , military slavery , and criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa .
Although there had been some trans-Saharan  व्यापार  from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to  अन्य  regions , slavery was a small part of the  आर्थिक  life of many  समाजों  in Africa  जबतक  the  परिचय  of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ) .
Slave practices  यहूद   again  transformed with European colonization of Africa and the  औपचारिक  abolition of slavery in the  जल्दी  1900s .
Brett Lorenzo Favre  (  born  अक्तूबर  10 , 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who spent the majority of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football  लीग  ( NFL ) .
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL , having played quarterback for  the  Atlanta Falcons ( 1991  )   ,  Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ) , New York Jets ( 2008  )  and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ) .
Favre is the only quarterback  in  NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards , over  500  touchdowns  ,  over 300 interceptions  ,  over 6,000 completions , and over 10,000 pass attempts .
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi  लिये  four years  पहले  being  चयनित  in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd  overall  ) .
He  थी  traded to Green Bay on February 10 , 1992  ,  for the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft .
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the fourth game  of  the 1992 season  ,  stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski , and started every game through the 2007 season .
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008 season before signing with the Vikings on August 18  ,   2009  as their starting quarterback .
He made an NFL record 297 consecutive starts (  321  including playoffs ) .
He is the only player to win  the  AP Most Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ) .
He has led teams to eight division  championships  ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2002  ,  2003 , 2004  ,  2007  ,  2009 ) , five NFC Championship Games ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 )  ,  and two Super Bowl appearances  (  Super Bowl XXXI , Super Bowl XXXII ) , winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ) .
He holds many NFL records , including most  करियर  touchdown passes ,  सबसे  career passing yards , most career pass  completions  , most career pass attempts , most career interceptions thrown , most consecutive starts by a player , most consecutive starts by a quarterback , most career  victories  as a starting quarterback , most sacked , and most fumbles  .
He is also  referred  to by his nickname `` The Gunslinger '' .
Salesforce.com Inc.  is   a  global enterprise software company headquartered in San Francisco  ,   कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Though best known for its customer relationship management (  crm   )  product , Salesforce has also expanded into the `` social  एंटरप्राइज़  arena '' through  acquisitions  .
It is currently  क्रमित  the  सबसे   अभिनव  company in  अमेरिका  by Forbes magazine , as well as number 27 in Fortunes  पत्रिका  's 100 Best Companies  to  Work For in 2012 .
As of April 2013 ,  the  company is ranked sixth in providing services in marketing and customer service automation .
It is listed on the New  यॉर्क  Stock Exchange and  is  a constituent of  the  S & P  500  index .
Seahorse  is  the title given to 54 species  of  marine fish in the genus Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus '' comes from  the  Ancient Greek hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster '' .
Earth is the third planet from the Sun , and the densest and fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System .
It is  भी  the largest of the  सौर  System 's four terrestrial  ग्रह  .
It is sometimes referred  to   as   the  world  or   the  Blue Planet .
Earth formed approximately 4.54 billion years ago , and life appeared  on  its surface within its first billion years .
Earth 's biosphere then significantly altered the atmospheric and other basic physical conditions , which enabled the  अप्रसार  of organisms as well  as  the formation of  the  ozone layer , which together with Earth 's magnetic field blocked harmful solar radiation , and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land .
The physical properties of the Earth , as well as its geological history and orbit , have  अनुमत  life to persist .
Estimates on how much longer the planet will be able to continue to support life range from , to as long as .
Earth 's lithosphere is divided into several rigid segments , or tectonic plates , that migrate across the surface over periods of many millions of years .
About 71 % of  the  surface  is  covered by salt water  महासागर  , with the remainder  consisting  of continents and islands which together have many lakes and other sources  of  water that contribute to the hydrosphere .
Earth  's  poles are  ज़्यादातर  covered with ice that is the solid ice  of  the Antarctic ice sheet and the sea  बर्फ  that is the  ध्रुवीय  ice packs .
The planet 's interior remains active , with a solid  आयरन  inner core ,  a  liquid outer core that  generates  the magnetic field , and a thick  परत  of relatively solid  mantle  .
Earth gravitationally interacts with other objects in space , especially the Sun and the  चंद्रमा  .
During one orbit around the Sun , the Earth rotates about its  अपना  axis  366.26  times , creating 365.26 solar days , or one sidereal year .
The Earth 's axis of rotation is tilted  23.4°  away from the perpendicular of its orbital plane , producing seasonal variations  on  the planet 's surface with a period of one tropical year ( 365.24 solar  दिनों  ) .
The Moon is Earth 's only natural satellite  .
It began orbiting  the  Earth about .
The Moon  's  gravitational interaction with Earth stimulates  समंदर  tides , stabilizes the axial tilt , and gradually slows the planet 's rotation .
The planet is  घर  to millions of species of life , including humans  .
Both the mineral resources of the planet and the products of the  जीवमंडल  contribute resources  कि  are used to  support  a global human population .
These inhabitants are grouped into about 200 independent sovereign states , which interact through diplomacy , travel , trade , and military  कार्रवाई  .
Human cultures  have  developed  अनेक  views of the planet , including its personification  as  a planetary  देवता  ,  इसके  shape as  चपटा  ,  इसके  position as the center of the universe , and in the modern Gaia Principle , as a single ,  self-regulating   सजीव  in  इसके  own right .
The Magician from the Waite-Smith tarot , who is depicted using the  वही  tools that modern Wiccans use .
In the neopagan religion of Wicca , a range of magical tools are used in ritual practice .
Each of these tools has  अलग  uses and associations , and are used primarily to direct  जादुई  energies .
वे  are used at an altar , inside a magic circle .
In traditional Gardnerian  wicca  , the tools are often divided into personal tools ,  जिससे  are for use by , and owned by , an individual Wiccan , and coven tools , used  collectively  by the coven .
This practice may derive  partly  from Masonic traditions (  ऐसे  as  the  use of  the  Square and Compasses ) , from which  wicca  draws some material , and partly from the rituals of the Hermetic Order  of  the  सुनहरी  Dawn .
The latter made much use of material  इससे  medieval  grimoires  such  as  the Key  of  Solomon , which has many illustrations of magical  टूल्स  and instructions for their preparation .
Typical eukaryotic cell .
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical  उर्जा  from nutrients  into  adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , and then release waste  उत्पाद   .
the  reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions , which  ब्रेक   विशाल  molecules into smaller ones , releasing energy in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products .
श्वसन  is one of the key ways a cell gains  उपयोगी  energy to fuel cellular activity .
Cellular respiration is considered an exothermic redox reaction  .
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs  in  the body , most of which are redox  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  themselves  .
हालांकि  technically , cellular respiration is  a  combustion  प्रतिक्रिया  ,  it  clearly does not  resemble  one  जब  it occurs in a living cell .
This difference is because it occurs in many separate steps .
While the overall reaction is a combustion reaction ,  no  single reaction that comprises it is a combustion reaction .
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration include sugar , amino acids and fatty acids , and a common oxidizing agent ( electron  acceptor  ) is  आणविक  oxygen  (  O2 ) .
The energy stored  in  ATP ( its third  फास्फेट  group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form , thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy , including biosynthesis , locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes .
A stored-pressure fire extinguisher  बना   by   amerex
A British fire extinguisher with ID  चिह्न   ,  call point  और  fire action sign
A fire extinguisher , flame extinguisher , or simply an extinguisher , is an  क्रियाशील  fire protection device used to extinguish or control small fires , often in emergency situations .
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control fire  ,  such as one which has reached the ceiling , endangers the user ( i.e. , no escape route , smoke , explosion  जोखिम   ,  etc . ) , or otherwise requires the expertise of a fire department .
Typically ,  a  fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held cylindrical pressure vessel containing an agent which can be discharged to  बुझा  a fire .
In the United States ,  आग  extinguishers , in all buildings other than houses , are generally required to be serviced and  inspected  by a  आग   सुरक्षा   सेवा  company at least annually .
Some jurisdictions require more frequent service for fire extinguishers .
The  servicer  places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the  प्रकार  of service performed ( annual  निरीक्षण  , recharge , new fire extinguisher ) and when  .
There  हैं  two main types of fire extinguishers : stored pressure and cartridge-operated .
In stored pressure units , the expellant is stored in the  वही  chamber as the  firefighting  agent  itself  .
Depending on the agent used ,  अलग  propellants are used .
With dry chemical extinguishers , nitrogen is typically used ; water and foam extinguishers typically use air .
Stored pressure fire extinguishers are  the  most common type .
Cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the  expellant  gas in a separate  कार्ट्रिज  that is punctured prior to discharge , exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent .
This type is not as common , used primarily in areas such as industrial facilities  ,  where they  प्राप्त  higher-than-average use .
They have the advantage of  सरल  and prompt recharge , allowing an operator  to  discharge the extinguisher  ,  recharge it , and return to  the  fire in a  उचित  amount of time .
Unlike stored pressure types , these extinguishers  उपयोग  compressed carbon dioxide instead  of  nitrogen , although  नाइट्रोजन   कारतूस  are used on low  तापमान  ( -60 rated  )  models .
Cartridge operated extinguishers are  उपलब्धियाँ  in dry chemical and dry powder types  in  the  u.S.  and  in  water , wetting agent , foam , dry chemical ( classes ABC and B.C . ) , and dry powder ( class D ) types in the rest of the world .
Fire extinguishers are further divided into handheld and cart-mounted , also called wheeled extinguishers .
Handheld extinguishers weigh from 0.5 to 14 kilograms ( 1 to 30 pounds ) , and are hence , easily portable by hand .
Cart-mounted units typically weigh 23+ kilograms  (  50+ pounds ) .
These wheeled models are most commonly found at construction sites ,  विमानक्षेत्र  runways , heliports , as well  as  docks and  marinas  .
Native Americans in the  संयुक्त  States are the indigenous peoples in North America  भीतर  the  सीमाएँ  of the present-day continental United States , Alaska , and the island state of Hawaii .
They are composed of numerous , distinct Native American tribes and ethnic  समूह  , many of which  जीवित  as intact political communities .
The terms used to refer to  देशी  Americans have  महरूम  controversial .
according  to a 1995 U.S. Census Census_Bureau Bureau Census_Bureau  नियत  of home interviews , most  of  the respondents with an expressed  वरीयता  refer to themselves  as  American Indians ( or simply Indians ) , and this  पद  has been adopted by  प्रमुख  newspapers  और  some academic groups  ;  however ,  इस  term does not typically include Native Hawaiians or certain Alaskan Natives , such as Aleut  ,  Yup'ik , or Inuit peoples .
Since the  समाप्त  of the 15th  सदी  , the migration of Europeans to the Americas ,  और  their importation of  africans   as  slaves  ,  has led to centuries of conflict and adjustment  between  Old and New World societies .
Europeans created most of the early written  ऐतिहासिक  record about Native Americans after  the  colonists ' immigration to the Americas .
अनेक  Native Americans lived as  hunter-gatherer  societies and told  उनके   histories  by oral traditions .
In  अनेक  groups , women carried out  sophisticated  cultivation of  numerous  varieties  of  staple crops : maize , beans and squash .
the  indigenous cultures were quite different from those of the agrarian ,  proto-industrial  , mostly  ईसाई  immigrants from western Eurasia .
Many Native cultures were matrilineal ; the people occupied lands for use of the entire community ,  लिये  hunting or agriculture .
Europeans at that time had patriarchal cultures and had  विकसित  concepts of individual property  अधिकारों  with respect to land that were extremely different .
The differences in cultures between the established Native Americans and immigrant  europeans  ,  as  well as shifting alliances among different nations  of  each culture through the centuries , caused extensive political  टेंशन  , ethnic violence and social  disruption  .
The Native Americans suffered  ऊँची  fatalities from  the   सम्पर्क  with infectious  यूरेशियाई  diseases  ,  to which they had no acquired immunity  .
Epidemics after European contact caused the greatest loss of life for indigenous populations  .
Estimates  of  the pre-Columbian population of what today  constitutes  the U.S. vary significantly , ranging from 1 million  to   18  million .
After the colonies revolted  विरूद्ध  Great Britain and established the United  राज्य  of America , President George Washington and Henry Knox conceived of the idea of `` civilizing  ''  Native Americans in preparation  लिये  assimilation as U.S. citizens .
Assimilation ( whether  voluntary  as with  the  Choctaw , or  मजबूर  ) became a consistent policy through American  administrations  .
During the 19th century ,  the  ideology of manifest destiny became integral to the American nationalist movement .
विस्तार  of European-American populations to the west after the American Revolution resulted in  increasing  pressure on Native American lands , warfare between the groups , and rising tensions .
In 1830 , the U.S.  कॉंग्रेस  passed the Indian  हटाना  Act , authorizing the government to relocate Native Americans from their homelands within established states to  lands  west of the Mississippi River , accommodating European-American expansion .
The first  यूरोपीय  Americans to encounter the  पश्चिमी  interior tribes were generally fur traders and trappers .
There were also Jesuit  प्रचारकों  active in the Northern Tier .
As United  राज्य  expansion reached into the  अमरीकी  West , settler and miner  प्रवासियों  came into increasing  विरोध  with the Great Basin , Great Plains  ,  and other Western tribes  .
These  यहूद  complex nomadic cultures based on horse culture and seasonal bison hunting .
They carried out strong resistance to  संयुक्त  States incursions  in  the decades after the American Civil  युद्ध  , in  a  series of Indian Wars , which were frequent up until the 1890s , but continued into the  20th  century .
The transcontinental railroad brought more non-Natives into tribal land in the  वेस्ट  .
Over time , the U.S. forced a series of treaties and land cessions by the tribes , and established reservations for them  in   अनेक  western states .
u.S.  agents encouraged Native Americans to adopt European-style farming and similar pursuits ,  लकिन  European-American  agricultural   प्रौद्योगिकी  of the time was inadequate for often dry reservation  lands  .
In 1924 , Native Americans who were not already U.S. citizens were granted citizenship by Congress .
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique relationship with the United States because they may be members of nations , tribes , or  bands  with sovereignty and  सन्धि  rights  .
Central America ( ) is the central geographic  प्रदेश  of the Americas .
It is the southernmost , isthmian portion of the North American continent , which connects with South America on the southeast .
When considered part of the unified continental model , it is considered a  उपमहाद्वीप  .
Central America consists of seven  देशों  : Belize , Costa Rica , El  साल्वाडोर  , Guatemala , Honduras  ,  Nicaragua  ,   और  Panama .
Central  अमेरिका  is part of the Mesoamerican  biodiversity  hotspot  ,  which extends from northern Guatemala through central Panama .
It is bordered by Mexico  to   the  north , the Caribbean  समुद्र  to  the  east , the  उत्तर  Pacific Ocean to the west , and Colombia to the south-east  .
Central America is an area of , or almost  0.1  % of the Earth 's surface .
As of 2009  ,  its  जनसांख्यिकी  was estimated  at  41,739,000 .
It has a density of 77 people per  वर्गाकार  kilometer .
Scrubs is an American medical comedy-drama television series created by  विधेयक  Lawrence that aired from October 2 , 2001  to  March 17 , 2010 on NBC and later ABC .
The series follows the lives of  कर्मचारी  at the fictional  पवित्र  Heart teaching hospital .
The title is a play on surgical scrubs and a term for a low-ranking person because  at  the beginning of the  श्रेणी  , most of the main  वर्ण  were medical interns .
The series features fast-paced screenplay , slapstick , and surreal vignettes  प्रस्तुत  mostly as  the  daydreams of the  सेंट्रल  character , Dr. John `` J.D . ''
Dorian , who is played  by  Zach Braff .
Actors starring alongside Braff in  the  first eight seasons included  सारा  Chalke , Donald  faison  , Neil Flynn  ,   केन  Jenkins , John C. McGinley  और  Judy Reyes .
The series has also featured multiple guest appearances by film actors  ,  such as Brendan Fraser ,  हीथर  Graham , and Colin Farrell .
In the ninth season , many new cast members  यहूद  introduced  और  the show setting moved from a hospital to a medical school  .
Out of the original cast , only Braff , Faison and McGinley became regular  डाल  members , while the others with the exception of  रेयेस  , made guest appearances .
Braff appeared in six episodes  of  the  नवीं  season before  दूँ  .
Kerry Bishé , Eliza Coupe , Dave Franco and Michael Mosley became series regulars  साथ  Bishé becoming the show  's   नई  narrator .
Scrubs  premiered  on October 2 , 2001 on NBC .
The series received a  पीबॉडी  Award in 2006 .
During the seventh season , NBC announced that  it  would not renew the show .
Shortly after the seventh season finale ,  एबीसी  announced  it   था  picked up the eighth season of the series , which began January 6 , 2009 .
The ninth season premiered on  दिसम्बर  1 , 2009 .
On May 14 ,  2010  , ABC announced it  था   officially  canceled Scrubs .
An 1817 Boulton & Watt beam blowing engine , used  in  Netherton at  the   ironworks  of  m  W  grazebrook  .
Re-erected on the A38 ( M ) in Birmingham , UK
A steam engine is a heat engine that performs mechanical work using steam as its  working  fluid .
Using boiling water to produce mechanical motion  goes  back about 2,000  सालो  , but early  डिवाइस  were  नहीं  practical .
Since the late 1700s steam engines have become a major  सोर्स   of   mechanical  power .
the  first applications were removing water  इससे  mines .
In 1781 James  वाट  patented a steam engine that  उत्पादित  continuous rotative motion .
These 10 hp engines  सक्रिय  a wide range of manufacturing machinery to be powered .
The engines  could  be sited anywhere that water and coal or wood fuel could be obtained .
By 1883 , engines that could provide 10,000 hp  था  become feasible .
Steam engines could also be applied  to  vehicles such as traction engines and the railway locomotives  जिससे  are commonly just called steam engines outside America .
the  stationary steam engine was a key component of the  औद्योगिक  Revolution , allowing factories to locate where water  शक्ति   थी  unavailable .
Today steam turbines generate about 90 % of the electric power in the United States using a variety of heat sources .
Steam engines are external combustion engines , where the working fluid is separate from the combustion products .
Non-combustion heat sources such as solar power  ,  nuclear power or  geothermal  energy may be used .
The ideal thermodynamic cycle used to analyze  इस   प्रक्रम  is called the  rankine  cycle .
In  the   साईकिल  , water  is  heated into steam  in  a boiler until it reaches a high pressure .
When  विस्तारित  through pistons or turbines , mechanical work is done .
The reduced-pressure steam is then condensed and pumped back into the boiler .
In general usage , the term steam  इंजन  can refer to either the integrated steam  पौधे  ( including  बायलरों  etc . ) such as railway steam locomotives and portable engines ,  or  may refer to the piston or turbine machinery alone  ,  as in the beam engine and stationary steam engine .
specialized  devices such as steam  hammers  and steam pile drivers are dependent  on  steam supplied from a separate boiler .
A mill engine from  stott  Park  bobbin  Mill , Cumbria , England
a  steam locomotive in Germany .This class of engine was built in 1942 – 1950 and operated commercially until 1988  .
`` Move Bitch '' (  संपादित  version  titled   ``  Move B***h  ''  or  बस   ``  Move '' ) is the third official single from rapper Ludacris  '  album Word of Mouf .
The single features Mystikal and I-20 .
The  सिंगल   पहुँचे  # 10 on the Billboard Hot  100  making it Ludacris  's  first top  टेन  hit  on  the chart , it also reached # 3 on Hot Rap Tracks  और  # 3 on  hot  R  &  B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks .
Puerto Rican reggaeton duo  maicol   &  Manuel sampled the song  on  ``  होय  Me Levanté '' on their 2002 release  yakaleo  .
The song is also featured in episode 2 , Series One of British teen comedy/drama Skins .
The song was also used  by  World Wrestling Entertainment superstar Montel Vontavious Porter during his short stint in Ring of Honor .
It was  भी  used for April Hunter in various  स्वतंत्र  circuits .
It was featured in the movie ATL starring T.I . , and '  hancock  , ' although in the latter ,  the  clean version was used .
A snippet of the song is played during traffic reports on many radio stations , usually carrying an urban/hip-hop  स्वरूप  .
Retired NBA star and now ESPN analyst Jalen Rose is featured in the music  वीडियो  .
The song has been covered by rock band Start Trouble  ,  on their album Every Solution  रै  Its Problem .
It was featured on British sitcom The Inbetweeners when the characters Jay and Neil took Will on a 'pussy patrol  '  in Jay 's  रेड  Nissan Micra .
It was sampled by Girl Talk on the first  track  of his album All Day , `` Oh No '' .
Elizabeth  ii  ( Elizabeth  एलेक्जेंड्रा  Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is  the   संवैधानिक  monarch of 16 sovereign states ,  ज्ञात  as the Commonwealth  realms  , and their territories  और  dependencies , and head of the 54-member  राष्ट्रमंडल  of Nations .
She is  परम्  Governor of the Church of England and ,  in  some of  उसके  realms , carries the title of Defender of  the  Faith as part of her full title .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth became Head  of  the Commonwealth and queen regnant  of   सात   स्वतंत्र  Commonwealth countries :  the  United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New  जीलैंड   ,  South Africa  ,  Pakistan and Ceylon .
From 1956 to 1992 , the number of her realms varied as territories gained independence and  कुछ  realms became republics .
At present , in addition to the first four aforementioned countries , Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica , Barbados , the Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint  लूसिया  , Saint Vincent and  the  Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda  और  Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Her reign  of  years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; only Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years .
Elizabeth  थी   born   in  London and educated  privately  at home .
Her father acceded  to  the throne  as  George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his  bhai  Edward VIII , from which time she was the heir presumptive .
She began to undertake public duties during  the  Second World War , in which  वो  served  in  the Auxiliary Territorial Service .
In 1947 , she married Prince Philip , Duke  of  Edinburgh , with whom she  रै   चार  children : Charles , Anne , Andrew , and Edward  .
Her coronation service took place in  1953  and was the  पहला   to  be  televised  .
The  महारानी  's  अनेक  historic visits and meetings include a state  विज़िट  to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope .
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms , such as devolution in the  संयुक्त  Kingdom and the patriation of  the   कनाडाई  constitution .
Times  of  personal significance have included the births and marriages  of  her children , the births of her grandchildren , the investiture of the  प्रिंस  of Wales , and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver , Golden , and Diamond  jubilees  in 1977 , 2002 , and 2012 , respectively .
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included  the   परेशानियों  in Northern Ireland , the Falklands War , wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan  .
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which  शामिल  the death  of  her  पिता   at  56 , the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle ,  रब  Mountbatten  ,  the breakdown of her  children  's  विवाह   in  1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis )  ,  the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law , Diana , Princess of Wales , and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002 .
The Queen has occasionally faced severe  दबायें  criticism of the royal family and republican  sentiments  , but  support  for the  साम्राज्य  and her personal popularity remain high .
Christianity is the largest  धर्म  listed by Australians in  the  national census .
In  the  2011  जनसांख्यिकी  , 61.1 %  of   australians  were listed as Christian .
Australia has no official state religion and the Australian Constitution protects freedom of religion .
The presence of Christianity in Australia began with the arrival of the  पहला  Fleet of British convicts in 1788 .
The religion grew to account for 96.1 % of the national population at the time of the Federation  of  Australia in 1901 .
The Anglican  गिरिजाघर  of Australia ( formerly known as the Church of England in Australia )  remained  the largest denomination until 1986 , when it was surpassed  by  the Roman Catholic  गिरिजाघर  in Australia .
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance  among  some sections of the population have diversified  the   जनसांख्यिकी  of religion in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011 , the largest denominations were either Roman  कैथोलिक  ( 25 % ) or  anglican  ( 17 % ) , with the third largest denomination being the 5 % affiliated with the Uniting Church in Australia .
post-war  immigration has grown the numbers belonging to churches like the Greek  परंपरागत  Archdiocese of Australia  और  there are large and growing Pentecostal groups , such as Sydney 's Hillsong Church .
The  त्यौहार  of Easter and Christmas  हैं  public holidays in Australia  .
Around  a  quarter of students  attend  church schools and Christian organisations are leading  non-government  providers of health and welfare services through organisations like  कैथोलिक  Health Australia , Anglicare , UnitingCare Australia ,  the  Salvation Army and St Vincent de Paul Society .
Historically significant Australian Christians have included Rev Dr John Dunmore  लैंग  , Saint Mary MacKillop , Catherine Helen Spence  ,  Pastor David Unaipon , the Reverend John Flynn  और  Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls .
High  प्रोफ़ाइल  contemporary Australian Christians include  :  Tim Costello Baptist minister  और  current CEO of World Vision  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , Frank Brennan , Jesuit human rights lawyer , Cardinal George Pell , Catholic Archbishop of Sydney , Phillip Aspinall the current Anglican Primate and Archbishop of Brisbane , Kevin Rudd , former Labor Prime Minister , and Tony Abbott , leader for the Federal Opposition  उदार   पार्टी  .
Charter creating Collegiate School ,  जिससे  became Yale College , October 9 , 1701
Yale University is  a  private Ivy League research university located in New Haven , Connecticut .
Founded in 1701 in the Colony of  कनेक्टिकट  , the university is the third-oldest institution of higher education in  the  United States .
Originally chartered as the `` Collegiate School '' , the institution  traces  its  जड़ें  to 17th-century clergymen who sought to  स्थापित  a college to train clergy and political leaders for the colony .
In 1718 , the College  थी  renamed `` Yale College '' to honor  a  gift from Elihu Yale , a governor of the British East India Company .
In 1861 , the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences became the first U.S.  संस्था  to award the PhD . Yale became a founding member of the Association of American Universities in 1900 .
Yale  कॉलेज  was  रूपांतरित  , beginning in the 1930s , through the establishment of residential  कॉलेजों  : 12 now exist and two more  हैं   नियोजित  .
Yale employs over  1,100  faculty to teach and advise about 5,300 undergraduate and 6,100 graduate and professional students  .
Almost  सब  tenured professors teach undergraduate courses , more than 2,000 of which are offered annually .
The University 's assets include  an  endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion  ,  the second-largest of any academic institution  in  the world .
Yale 's system  of  more than two dozen libraries holds 12.5  लाख  volumes .
49 Nobel Laureates have been  संबद्ध  with the University as students , faculty , and staff .
Yale has produced many notable alumni , including  पाँच  U.S. Presidents , 19 U.S.  परम्  Court Justices , and several foreign heads of state .
At the graduate level , Yale Law School , Yale School of Art , and  yale  School of Drama are consistently ranked  the  top programs in their field .
Yale Law School is the most selective law school in the United States .
Yale students compete intercollegiately as  the  Yale Bulldogs in the NCAA Division I Ivy League  .
The oldest intercollegiate athletic event in the United States  is  the Yale-Harvard regatta .
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush  ''  or `` sagebrush '' ) is an aromatic shrub from the family Asteraceae , which grows in arid and semi-arid conditions  ,   throughout  a range of  ठंडा   मरुस्थल  , steppe ,  और  mountain  habitats  in the  intermountain  West of North America .
The vernacular name  ``  sagebrush ''  is  also used for several related members  of  the genus Artemisia , such as California Sagebrush ( Artemisia californica ) .
Big Sagebrush and  अन्य  Artemisia species are the dominant plants across large portions of the Great Basin , covering some 422,000 square miles in 11 western U.S. & Canadian states .
It is the state flower of Nevada .
Sagebrush provides food and habitat for a  किस्में  of species , such as sage grouse , pronghorn antelope ,  धूसर  vireo , pygmy rabbit , and mule deer .
Big  sagebrush  was used as  an  herbal  आयुर्विज्ञान  by Native Americans throughout the Intermountain West of North America—especially for preventing infection in wounds , stopping internal  bleeding  , and treating headaches  और   जुकाम  .
Chemically , the  क्रियाशील  medicinal constituents include camphor , terpenoids , and tannins .
Several major threats  मौजूद  to sage brush ecosystems ,  सहित  human settlements ,  परिवर्तन  to agricultural land ,  पशुधन  grazing , invasive plant  प्रजाति  , wildfires , and climate change .
Yahoo ! Mail is a free email  सेवा  offered by the American search  इंजन  company Yahoo !
it  was launched in 1997 ,  और  , according to comScore , Yahoo ! Mail  is  the third-largest web-based email service with 281 million  उपयोक्ता  as of December 2012 .
Currently , Yahoo ! offers three versions of  याहू  ! Mail .
The traditional `` Yahoo ! Mail Classic '' continues the availability of the original interface introduced in  1997  .
A version introduced in 2005 included a new Ajax interface , drag-and-drop features  ,  improved search functionality , keyboard shortcuts , address auto-complete , tabs  ,  and other updated features .
In October 2010  ,  Yahoo ! released a beta version of Yahoo ! Mail , which included  सुधार  to  the  design , performance , search functionality , and Facebook integration .
In May 2011 , beta testing  लिये  the new version stopped , and it became the default interface for  याहू   !  Mail .
In early 2008 , Yahoo ! began  offering  unlimited mail storage to its users in response to heated competition in the free web-mail market segment .
On June  27  , 2009 , Yahoo  !  Messenger was  एकीकृत  with Yahoo ! Mail .
Tacoma ( , ) is a mid-sized urban port city and the county seat of Pierce County , Washington , United States .
The city is on Washington 's  puget  Sound , southwest of Seattle , northeast of the state capital , Olympia ,  और  northwest of Mount Rainier  नेशनल   पार्क  .
The population was 198,397 , according  to  the 2010 census .
Tacoma is the  second-largest  city in the Puget Sound area and the third largest in the state .
Tacoma also serves as the  बीच  of business activity for the South Sound region  ,  which has a population of around 1 million people  .
Tacoma adopted its name after the nearby Mount Rainier , originally called  माउंट  Tahoma .
It is known as the `` City of Destiny '' because the  क्षेत्रफल   थी  chosen to be the  पश्चिमी  terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad in the late 19th century .
The decision of the railroad was influenced by Tacoma 's neighboring deep-water harbor ,  शुरुआत   खाड़ी  .
By connecting the bay with the railroad Tacoma 's  motto   became  `` When rails meet sails . ''
Today Commencement Bay serves  the  Port of Tacoma ,  a  center of international trade on the Pacific Coast and Washington state 's largest port .
Like most  सेंट्रल  cities ,  टकोमा  suffered a  prolonged  decline in the mid-20th century as a result  of  suburbanization and divestment  .
Since the 1990s , developments in the downtown core include the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Washington Tacoma ; Tacoma Link , the first modern electric light rail service in  the  state ; the state 's highest  घनत्व  of art and history museums ; and a  लौटी  urban waterfront , the Thea  foss  Waterway .
साथ  a long history of blue-collar labor politics — from the railroad workers  of  the  19th  century , to the  longshoremen  of the 20th century , to the Labor Ready workers  of  today — Tacoma has long  महरूम  known for its rough , gritty image .
A song about Tacoma , `` Thrice All American '' ,  by  American singer-songwriter and former resident Neko Case , describes it as `` a dusty old jewel in the South Puget  ध्वनि  / where the factories churn / and the  timber  's all cut down '' .
Tacoma-Pierce County  रै  been named one of the most livable areas in the country .
Tacoma was also recently listed as the 19th most walkable city in the country .
In contrast , the city is also ranked as the most stressed-out city in the country in a 2004 survey .
In 2006  ,  women 's magazine Self named Tacoma  the  `` Most Sexually Healthy City '' in the United States .
In 2012 ,  the  Advocate gave Tacoma the title of ``  gayest   नगर  in America '' , in part because of the large diversity of public  कार्यालयों  held , and Washington State passing  a  bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to  निकाह  .
Tacoma is famous for the 1940 collapse of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge .
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the second largest city in the San Diego metropolitan area ,  the  seventh  largest  city in Southern California ,  the  fourteenth largest city in  the  State of California , and the 77th-largest city in the United  राज्य  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 243,916 as of the 2010 census .
स्तिथ  just from downtown San Diego and from the Mexican border in the South Bay region of the  महानगर  area , the city is at the center of one of the richest  आर्थिक  and culturally diverse zones in the  संयुक्त  States .
Chula Vista  is  so named because of its scenic location  between  the San Diego Bay and coastal mountain foothills .
संस्थापित  in  the  early 19th  सदी  , fast population growth has recently been observed in the city .
As the second largest city in  सैन  Diego County , Chula Vista has quickly  become  a destination popular to many tourists .
Located in the city is  एक   of  America 's few year-round United States Olympic Training  centers  and popular tourist destinations include Cricket Wireless Amphitheater , the Chula Vista marina , and the Chula Vista  प्रकृति  Center .
metes  and bounds is a system or method of describing land , real property ( in contrast to personal property ) or real estate .
The system has been used in England for many centuries , and is still used there in  the   परिभाषा  of general  सीमाएँ   .
By custom , it was applied in the original Thirteen Colonies  कि  became the United States , and in many other land jurisdictions  आधारित  on English common law .
Typically the system uses physical features of the local geography , along with directions and distances ,  to  define and  describe  the boundaries of a parcel of land .
the  boundaries are described in a running prose  स्टाइल  , working around the parcel in sequence , from a point of beginning , returning back to the same  पाइंट  ; compare with the oral  अनुष्ठान  of beating the bounds .
It may include references to  अन्य  adjoining  parcels  ( and their owners ) , and it , in  फेरे  , could also be referred to in later surveys .
At the time the description is compiled , it may have been marked on  the  ground with  स्थाई  monuments placed where there were no  उपयुक्त  natural monuments .
The term `` metes ''  refers  to a boundary defined by the measurement of each straight run , specified  by  a distance between the  टर्मिनल  points , and an orientation or direction .
A direction may be  a  simple compass bearing , or a precise orientation determined by accurate survey methods .
The term  ``  bounds ''  refers  to a more general boundary description ,  ऐसे  as along a certain watercourse , a stone wall , an adjoining public road way , or an existing building  .
The system is  प्रायः  used to define larger pieces of  प्रॉपर्टी  ( e.g . farms ) , and political subdivisions ( e.g . town boundaries ) where precise definition is not required or would  be  far too expensive , or previously designated boundaries can  be  incorporated into the description .
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 March 1727 ) was an English physicist  और   गणितज्ञ  who is widely regarded as  एक  of the  सबसे  influential  वैज्ञानिकों  of all time and as a  कुंजी  figure in the scientific revolution .
His book Philosophiæ  naturalis  Principia Mathematica ( `` Mathematical  सिद्धान्त  of Natural Philosophy '' ) , first published in 1687 , laid the foundations for most of classical mechanics .
Newton also made seminal contributions  to  optics and shares  क्रेडिट  with Gottfried Leibniz for the invention  of  the  infinitesimal  calculus .
न्यूटन  's Principia formulated the laws of motion and universal gravitation that dominated scientists ' view of the physical universe for the  अगला  three centuries  .
It also demonstrated that the motion of objects on the Earth and that of celestial bodies could be described by  the  same principles .
by  deriving  कॅप्लर  's laws of planetary motion from his mathematical description of gravity , Newton removed the last doubts about the validity of the heliocentric model of the cosmos .
Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope and developed a theory of colour based on the observation that a prism decomposes white  लाइट  into the many colours of the visible spectrum .
he  also formulated an empirical  विधि  of cooling and  पढ़ाई  the speed of sound .
In addition to his work on the calculus , as a mathematician Newton  contributed  to the study of power series ,  generalised  the binomial theorem to non-integer exponents , and developed Newton 's method for approximating the  जड़ें  of a function .
न्यूटन  was a fellow of Trinity College and the second Lucasian Professor of Mathematics  at  the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Cambridge .
He was  a   devout   लकिन  unorthodox Christian  और  , unusually for  a  member of  the  Cambridge faculty , he refused to take holy orders in the Church of England  ,  perhaps because he privately rejected the doctrine  of  trinitarianism .
In addition to his work  on  the mathematical sciences , Newton also dedicated much of his time to the study of alchemy and biblical chronology , but  सबसे  of his work in those areas remained unpublished until long  बाद  his death .
In his later life , Newton became president of the Royal Society .
He also served the British government as Warden and Master of the Royal Mint .
Prof. Walter Lewin explains Newton 's law of  gravitation  in MIT course 8.01
Satellites and projectiles all obey Newton  's   विधि   of   gravitation
Newton 's law of  सार्वभौमिक  gravitation  राज्य  that every point mass in the universe attracts every other point mass with a force that is directly proportional to the product of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between  उन्हें   .
( Separately it was shown that large spherically symmetrical masses attract and are attracted as if  सब  their mass were concentrated at their  centers  . )
This is a general  शारीरिक  law derived from empirical observations by what Newton called induction .
it  is  a  part of classical mechanics and was formulated in Newton  's  work Philosophiæ  naturalis  Principia Mathematica  (  `` the Principia '' ) , first published  on  5 July 1687 .
( When Newton 's book was presented in 1686 to the Royal Society , Robert Hooke made a  अर्जी  that Newton had obtained  the  inverse square law  इससे  him – see History section below . )
In modern language , the law  राज्य  the following:
Assuming SI units , F  is  measured  in  newtons ( N ) , m1 and m2 in  गामा  ( kg )  ,  r in meters ( m ) , and the  निरंतर  G is approximately equal to .
The value of the constant G was first accurately determined  इससे  the results of the Cavendish experiment conducted by  the   अंग्रेजों  scientist Henry Cavendish  in  1798 , although Cavendish did not himself  गणना  a numerical value for G .
This experiment was also the first test  of  Newton 's theory of gravitation between masses in the  प्रयोगशाला  .
It  took  place 111 years after the publication of Newton 's Principia and 71 years after  न्यूटन  's death , so none  of  Newton 's calculations could use the value of G ; instead he  could  only calculate a force relative to  another  force .
Newton 's law of gravitation resembles Coulomb 's law of electrical forces , which  is  used to calculate the magnitude of electrical force between  दो  charged bodies .
Both are  inverse-square  laws , in which force is inversely proportional to the square of the distance between the bodies .
Coulomb 's Law has the product of two charges in place of the product of the masses , and the electrostatic constant in  प्लेस  of the gravitational constant .
न्यूटन  's law has since been superseded by Einstein 's theory of general relativity , but it continues to be used as an excellent approximation of the effects of gravity .
Relativity is required only when there is a need for extreme precision , or when dealing with gravitation for extremely  विशाल  and dense objects  .
White and  रेड  flags , representing Iraqi and American deaths , sit in  the  grass quadrangle of The  घाटी  Library on the  corvallis  , Oregon  ,  campus of  ऑरेगॉन  State University .
As part of the traveling Iraq Body Count exhibit from 2008 to 2009 ( not related to Iraq Body Count project ) , the flags aim to ``  उठाएँ  awareness of the human cost  of  the Iraq War . ''
( May 2008 )
Casualties of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( beginning with the 2003 invasion of Iraq , and continuing with the ensuing occupation of Iraq , as well as the activities of the various armed groups operating in the country ) have come in many forms , and the accuracy of the information available on different types of Iraq War casualties varies greatly .
The table below summarizes various estimates of the Iraqi casualty figures .
For troops in  the  U.S.-led multinational coalition , the death toll is carefully tracked and updated daily , and  the  names and photographs of those killed in action as well  as   in  accidents  have  been published  widely  .
A total of 4,486 U.S. soldiers were killed in Iraq  between  2003 and 2012  .
regarding  the Iraqis , however ,  सूचना   on  both military and civilian casualties is  दोनो  less precise and less consistent .
Estimates of casualty levels are available from reporters on the scene , from officials of involved organizations , and from groups  कि  summarize information on  incidents  reported in the news media .
The word `` casualties `` in its most general sense includes  the  injured as well as the dead .
Accounts of the number of coalition wounded vary widely  ,  partly because it is not obvious  कया  should  be  counted :  चाहिए  only those  चोटों  serious enough  to  put a soldier out of  आयोग  be included  ?
Do illnesses or  चोटों  caused by accidents count , or should the  फ़ोकस  be  प्रतिबंधित  to wounds caused by hostile engagement ?
Sources using  अलग  definitions may  arrive  at very  अलग  numbers , and sometimes  the   precise   परिभाषा  is not clearly  निर्दिष्ट  .
asalto  al coche ( Robbery of the coach ) , by Francisco  de  Goya
A highwayman  थी  a thief and brigand who preyed on travellers .
इस  type  of  outlaw usually travelled  और  robbed by horse , as compared to a  footpad   जो  travelled and robbed on  पैर  .
Mounted robbers were widely considered to be socially superior to footpads .
Such robbers operated in Great Britain and Ireland from the Elizabethan era until the early  19th  century .
The word highwayman is first known to be used in the year 1617 ; other euphemisms  शामिल  `` knights  of  the road '' and ``  सज्जनों  of the road . ''
Two terms  लागू  to 19th-century North American highwaymen were road agents in some instances for mountain bandits while in other cases the term is Rlallaala for mountain-based  ruffians  .
In  the  same time period in Australia ,  वे  were  ज्ञात  as bushrangers .
Earvin `` Magic '' Johnson , Jr. ( born August 14 , 1959 ) is a  रिटायर्ड   अमरीकी  professional basketball  खिलाड़ी   जो   निभाई  point guard for the  लॉस  Angeles Lakers  of  the National Basketball Association ( NBA ) .
After winning championships in high school and college , Johnson was selected first overall in the 1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers .
he  won a championship and an NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award in his  रुकी  season , and won four more championships with the Lakers during the 1980s .
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991 after announcing that he had contracted HIV , but returned to play in the  1992  All-Star Game , winning the All-Star MVP Award .
बाद  protests from his fellow players , he retired again for four years , but returned in 1996 , at age 36 , to play 32 games for the  लेकर्स  before retiring for the third and final  समय  .
Johnson 's career achievements include three  एनबीए  MVP  पुरस्कार  , nine NBA Finals appearances , twelve All-Star games  ,  and ten All-NBA First and Second Team nominations .
He led the league in regular-season assists four times , and is the NBA 's all-time leader in average assists per  खेल  , at 11.2 .
Johnson was  a  member of the `` Dream Team `` , the  u.S.  basketball  टोली  that won the  ओलम्पिक  gold medal in 1992 .
बाद  leaving the NBA in 1992 , Johnson formed  the  Magic Johnson  all-stars  , a barnstorming team that travelled around the  संसार  playing exhibition games .
Johnson was honored as one of the 50 Greatest Players in NBA  इतिहास  in  1996  , and enshrined in the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2002 .
He was rated the  महानतम  NBA point guard of all time by ESPN in 2007 .
His friendship and rivalry with Boston  सेल्टिक्स  star Larry Bird  ,  whom he faced in  the  1979 NCAA finals  और  three NBA championship series , were well documented .
Since his retirement , Johnson  रै   महरूम  an advocate for  hiV/  AIDS  रोकथाम  and safe sex , as well as an entrepreneur , philanthropist , broadcaster and motivational speaker .
Johnson was a part-owner of the  लेकर्स  for several years , and was part  of  a group that purchased the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2012 .
allium   कोशिकाएं   in  different phases of the cell cycle
The cells of eukaryotes ( left  )  and prokaryotes ( right )
The cell is the basic structural , functional and biological unit of  सब   ज्ञात  living organisms .
It is  the  smallest unit of life that is  वर्गीकृत  as  a  living thing ( except virus , which  consists  only from DNA/RNA covered  by   प्रोटीन  and lipids ) , and is often called the building  ब्लाक  of life .
It consists of a protoplasm enclosed within a membrane , which contains many biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids .
Organisms  can  be classified as unicellular ( consisting of a single cell  ;  including most bacteria ) or multicellular ( including plants and animals ) .
While  the  number of cells in plants and animals varies from species to species , Humans contain about 100 trillion ( 1014 ) cells .
Most plant and animal cells are between 1 and 100  micrometres  and therefore are visible  तभी  under the microscope .
The cell was discovered by Robert Hooke in 1665 .
The cell theory ,  पहला  developed in 1839  by  Matthias  jakob  Schleiden  और   theodor  Schwann , states  कि   सब  organisms are composed of one or more cells , that all cells come from preexisting cells , that vital functions of an organism occur within cells , and that  सब  cells contain the hereditary information necessary  लिये  regulating cell  कृत्यों   और   लिये  transmitting information to the next generation of cells .
Cells emerged on planet Earth  at  least 4.0–4.3 billion years ago .
The word cell comes from the Latin  गर्भगृह  , meaning `` small room '' .
The descriptive  पद  for the smallest  जीना  biological structure was coined by Robert Hooke in a book he published in 1665 when he compared  the  cork cells he saw through his microscope to the small  कक्ष  monks  जिया  in .
Grecian Formula is a men 's hair coloring product in the United States .
Canada  और  Europe previously banned the product because of  इसके  use of lead acetate .
A motor scooter 's front with an impractical number and variety of headlamps , added  लिये  decorative purposes
A headlamp  is  a lamp  संलग्न  to the front of a vehicle to light the road ahead .
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile  आयु  , spurred by the great disparity between daytime and nighttime traffic fatalities : the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety  प्रशासन  states that nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the dark , despite only 25 % of traffic  यात्राएं  during  अंधेरा  .
While  it  is common for the term headlight to be used interchangeably  in   अनौपचारिक  discussion , headlamp is the term for the device itself  ,  while  हेडलाइट  properly refers to the  बीम   of  light produced and distributed  by  the  यंत्र  .
Other  वाहनों  , such as trains and aircraft , are required to have headlamps  .
Bicycle headlamps are often  प्रयुक्त  on  साइकिल  ,  और  are required in some  jurisdictions  .
They can be powered by a battery or a small  विद्युत  generator on the wheel .
Additionally  ऑटोमोटिव  night vision systems work to supplement headlamps .
Women 's  अधिकारों  are the rights and entitlements  claimed  for women and girls of many societies worldwide .
In some  स्थान   ये  rights are institutionalized or supported by law , local custom , and behaviour , whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed .
They differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent historical and  परंपरागत  bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of  मेन  and boys .
मुद्दे  commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include , though are not limited  to  , the right : to bodily integrity  और   स्वायत्तता  ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to fair wages or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ;  to   serve  in the  सैन्य   or  be conscripted ; to enter  into   विधिक  contracts ; and to have marital , parental and religious  अधिकारों  .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best known as Whoopi Goldberg ( , (  born  November 13 , 1955 ) is an American comedienne  ,  actress , singer-songwriter ,  राजनैतिक  activist , author and talk show host .
Goldberg  बना  her film debut in The Color  जामुनी  ( 1985 ) , playing Celie , a  mistreated  black woman in the Deep South .
She received a nomination for the Academy Award  लिये  Best Actress and won her first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film .
In 1990 , she played Oda Mae Brown , a wacky psychic  helping  a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) save  उसके  lover ( Demi Moore  )  in the blockbuster Ghost .
This performance won  उसके  a second Golden Globe  और  an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ;  इस  made Goldberg  तभी  the second  ब्लैक  woman in the history of  the  Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel  जो  won for Gone With  the  Wind in 1939 .
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2 , The Player , Made in America , How Stella Got Her Groove Back , Girl ,  बाधित  and Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The  अगला  Generation , as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash , and as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee , as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The  शेर  King .
Goldberg has been nominated for 13 Emmy Awards for her work in television  .
वो  was co-producer of the popular game show Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004 .
She has been the moderator  of  the daytime talk show The View since 2007 .
Goldberg has a Grammy , two Daytime  emmys  , two Golden Globes , a Tony ( for  उत्पादन  , not acting ) ,  और  an Oscar .
In addition , Goldberg  रै  a British Academy Film  पुरस्कार  , four  लोगों  's Choice Awards  ,  and has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
She is one of the few entertainers who have  जीती  an Emmy , Grammy , Oscar , and  टोनी  Award .
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; )  is  an `` unincorporated  not-for-profit  association ''  जिससे  operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised member clubs , of which  सात  are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States .
Headquartered in New York City , the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey league in the world , and one of the major professional sports leagues in  the   संयुक्त  States and Canada .
The Stanley Cup , the oldest professional sports trophy in North America , is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season .
The  लीग  was organized  on  November 26 , 1917 , in Montreal , Quebec , Canada , after the suspension  of  operations of its predecessor  संगठन  ,  the  National Hockey Association ( NHA ) , which had been founded in 1909 .
It started with four teams and , through a  श्रेणी  of expansions , contractions , and relocations , the league is now composed of 30 active franchises .
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was  कनाडा  , although  the  league has now been  binational  since 1924  जब  it  विस्तारित   into  the United States .
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season  ,  the league resumed  खेल  under a new  सामूहिक  bargaining agreement  कि  included a salary cap .
In  2009  ,  the  NHL enjoyed record highs in terms of sponsorships , attendance , and  टेलीविज़न  audiences .
The NHL draws many highly  skilled  players from all over the world and currently has players from about  20  different countries .
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL , over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European players  have  increased both  क्युकी  of the NHL 's continued expansion from  छह  to thirty clubs since 1967 , and the increased availability of highly skilled European  खिलाड़ी  .
Maggots feeding on carrion .
A  maggot  is  the  larva of a fly ( order Diptera ) ; it is applied in particular to the larvae of Brachyceran flies , such as houseflies , cheese flies , and blowflies , rather than larvae of the Nematocera , such as mosquitoes and Crane flies .
`` Maggot ''  is  not a technical term and should not be taken as such ; in many standard textbooks of entomology  it  does  नहीं  appear in  the  index  at  all .
In many  non-technical  texts the term is used for insect larvae  in  general  .
Other sources have coined  उनके  own definitions ; for example  :  ``  ...
The term applies to a grub when all trace of limbs has disappeared ... '' and `` ... Applied to the footless larvae of Dipters . ''
Maggot-like fly larvae are of wide  महत्व  in ecology and medicine ; among other roles , various species are prominent in recycling carrion and garbage  ,  attacking crops and  foodstuffs  , spreading microbial infections , and causing myiasis .
Herod ( , Hordos , Greek : ,  hērōdēs  ) , also known as Herod the Great ( 73/74 BCE – 4  bce   in  Jericho ) , was a Roman client king  of  Judea .
His epithet of `` the Great  ''   is  widely disputed  as  he is described as `` a  madman  who murdered his  अपना  family and a great many rabbis `` .
He is also known for his  colossal  building projects in Jerusalem and elsewhere , including his expansion of the Second Temple in Jerusalem  (  sometimes referred to  as  Herod 's Temple ) and the construction of the port at  caesarea  Maritima .
Important details of his biography are gleaned from  the  works of the 1st century  ce  Roman–Jewish historian Josephus Flavius .
The Romans  बना  Herod 's  बेटे  , Herod Archelaus , ethnarch of Judea , Samaria , and Idumea ( biblical Edom ) from 4 BCE to 6  ce  , referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea .
Archelaus was judged incompetent by the Roman  सम्राट  Augustus who then combined Samaria ,  judea  proper and Idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until age  41  .
Herod 's other son Herod Antipas was tetrarch of Galilee from 4 BCE–39 CE  .
ABO blood group antigens present on  रेड  blood cells and IgM antibodies present in the serum
The ABO blood group system is the most  महत्वपूर्ण  blood type system ( or blood group system ) in  इंसान  blood transfusion .
the  associated anti-A  और  anti-B antibodies are usually IgM antibodies , which are usually produced in the first years of life  by  sensitization to  पर्यावरणीय  substances such as  खाना  , bacteria  ,  and  वाइरस  .
ABO blood types are also present in some other animals  ,  for example apes such as chimpanzees , bonobos , and gorillas .
Year  1907  ( MCMVII ) was a common  साल  starting on Tuesday ( link will display the full calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower Julian  पंचांग  .
Northville is an affluent city located in and divided by Oakland and Wayne counties in the U.S. state of Michigan .
The area is a suburb of Metropolitan Detroit .
The population was 5,970 at the 2010 census .
Most of the city is  in  Oakland County , and is surrounded by the  नगर  of Novi .
The Wayne County portion is surrounded by Northville Township .
Northville is served by Northville Public Schools .
The city is located northeast of Ann Arbor and northwest of Detroit .
Elaine Stritch ( born February 2 , 1925 ) is an American actress  और  vocalist .
She has appeared in numerous  स्टेज  plays and musicals , feature films , and many television programs .
She  is  known for her  प्रदर्शन   of  `` The Ladies Who Lunch '' in Stephen Sondheim  's  1970 musical Company , her 2001 one-woman show ,  ऐलेन   stritch  at  स्वतंत्रता  , and recently  लिये  her role as Jack Donaghy 's mother  colleen  on NBC 's 30 Rock .
She  रै  been nominated  लिये  the Tony Award five times in various categories .
stritch  is also a three-time Emmy Award winner .
Misfits is a  अंग्रेजों   विज्ञान  fiction comedy-drama television show about  a  group of young offenders sentenced to work  in  a community service programme , where they  obtain  supernatural powers after a strange electrical storm .
the  series opened in 2009 and is currently ongoing .
Antonia Thomas , Iwan Rheon ,  लॉरेन  Socha ,  नाथन  Stewart-Jarrett , and Robert Sheehan are introduced as Alisha  डैनियल्स  , Simon Bellamy , Kelly Bailey , Curtis Donovan , and Nathan Young respectively .
Sheehan left  बाद  the second series , replaced in the third by Joseph Gilgun  as  Rudy Wade  .
After the fourth series was announced Rheon , Thomas and Socha had left their roles and  होता  be replaced by new characters Karla Crome , Nathan McMullen and Matt Stokoe , as Jess  ,  Finn  और   एलेक्स  respectively .
Midway through the fourth series , Stewart-Jarrett left while Natasha O'Keeffe joined the  डाल  as Abbey Smith .
On 19 March 2013 , Channel 4 announced at a press event that  वे   have   नवीनीकृत  Misfits for  a  fifth and final series containing 8 episodes .
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10 , 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who spent the majority  of   उसके  career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football  लीग  ( NFL ) .
He was a 20-year veteran of the  एनएफएल  , having played  क्वार्टरबैक  for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ) , Green  खाड़ी  Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ) ,  नई  York Jets ( 2008 ) and  मिनेसोटा  Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ) .
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards , over 500 touchdowns , over 300 interceptions , over 6,000 completions , and over  10,000  pass  कोशिशें   .
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before being selected in  the  second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ) .
He  थी  traded to Green Bay on February 10 , 1992 ,  लिये  the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft .
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the  1992  season , stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski , and started  प्रत्येक  game through the 2007  ऋतु  .
He  थी  traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008 season before signing with  the  Vikings  on  August 18 , 2009 as their starting quarterback .
he  made an NFL record 297 consecutive starts ( 321 including playoffs ) .
he  is the only player to win the AP Most Valuable Player three consecutive times  (  1995–97 ) .
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995  ,  1996 , 1997 , 2002 , 2003 , 2004 , 2007 , 2009 ) , five NFC Championship  खेल  ( 1995 , 1996 ,  1997  , 2007 , 2009 )  ,  and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super  कटोरी  XXXI , Super Bowl XXXII ) , winning one ( Super  कटोरी  XXXI ) .
He holds many  एनएफएल  records , including  सबसे  career touchdown passes , most career passing  गज  , most career pass completions , most career pass attempts  ,  most career interceptions thrown  ,  most consecutive starts by a player , most consecutive starts by a quarterback , most  करियर   victories  as a  starting  quarterback , most sacked  ,   और  most fumbles .
He is also referred to by his nickname `` The Gunslinger '' .
The following is a list of notable aircraft hijackings around the  संसार  .
The  संसार  Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or  w3  , commonly known as the web )  ,  is a system of interlinked  हाइपरटेक्स्ट  documents accessed via the Internet .
With  a  web browser , one can view web pages that may contain text , images , videos , and other multimedia , and navigate between them via hyperlinks .
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE , British engineer , computer scientist  और  at that time employee of the CERN , Sir  टिम  Berners-Lee  ,  now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) , wrote a proposal  in  March 1989 for what would eventually  become  the World Wide  वेब  .
At  cern  ,  a  European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France  और   स्विट्ज़रलैंड  , Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of  नोड  in which  the  user can browse at will '' , and they  सरेआम  introduced the project in December of the same year .
Wayne Lyman  मोर्स  ( October 20 , 1900July 22 , 1974 ) was a politician and attorney from Oregon , United States , known for his proclivity for opposing his parties '  नेतृत्व  , and specifically for his opposition  to  the Vietnam War on constitutional grounds  .
Born in Madison  ,  Wisconsin  ,  and educated at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the University  of  Minnesota Law School  ,  Morse moved to Oregon in 1930 and began teaching at the University of Oregon School of Law .
During World War II he  थी  elected to  the   संयुक्त  States Senate as a Republican  ;   he  became  an  Independent after Dwight D. Eisenhower 's election to the presidency in  1952  .
While an independent  ,  he set a record for performing the second longest one-person filibuster in the history of the Senate .
Morse joined the Democratic Party in 1955 , and was reelected twice while a member  of  that party .
Morse made a brief run for the Democratic Party 's presidential nomination in 1960 .
A few years later ,  मोर्स  was one of only two Senators who opposed the Gulf  of  Tonkin Resolution , which authorized the president to take  सैन्य  action in Vietnam without a  घोषणा  of war .
He continued to speak out against the war  in  the ensuing years , and lost his 1968 bid for reelection to Bob Packwood , who  criticized  his strong opposition  to  the war .
Morse made two more bids for reelection to the Senate before  उसके  death in 1974  .
in  parliamentary procedure , a motion to table has two different and contradictory meanings:
In the United States , to table usually means the  to  lay [ the topic ]  on  the table  or  to move for postponement of consideration ; a proposal  to  suspend consideration of a  स्थगित  motion .
much  less often , it means a motion to `` put on the table '' : a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ) , a usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world .
In the rest of the English-speaking world such as the United Kingdom , to table  अर्थात्  to move to place [ the topic ] upon the table ( or to move to place on the table  )  : a proposal to  शुरू   विचार  ( or reconsideration )  of  a proposal .
Both the American and the British dialects have the sense of `` to table '' as to lay [ the  टॉपिक  ] on the  तालिका  or to cause [ the topic ] to lie on the table .
The  अंतर  is the idea of what  the  table is for ,  कि  of a shelf off to  the   पक्ष   ,  or an active work bench .
The British meaning has the sense of the table as being an active work bench , with the  टॉपिक  being the center of attention , considered and discussed by all until it  can  be resolved , at which point it is taken off the 'table ' .
The American sense is that the table is like that of a shelf , archive , or long-term storage device , where the topic has been disposed of by sending it to the 'table ' and leaving it there .
Toy Story 3  is  a 2010 American 3D computer animated comedy-drama  थाना  film , and the third installment in the Toy Story series .
It was produced by Pixar Animation Studios and distributed  by  Walt Disney Pictures .
Directed by Lee Unkrich , the film was released worldwide from June through October in Disney Digital 3-D , RealD ,  और  IMAX 3D .
खिलौना  Story 3 was also the first film  to  be released theatrically with Dolby Surround 7.1 sound  .
The screenplay was written by Michael Arndt ,  जबकि  Unkrich wrote the story along with John Lasseter and Andrew Stanton , respectively director and  co-writer   of  the  दो   पहला  films .
The plot focuses on the toys Woody , Buzz Lightyear , and their friends dealing with an uncertain future as their owner , Andy , prepares to leave for college .
Actors Tom Hanks , Tim Allen  ,  Joan Cusack , Don Rickles , Estelle Harris , John Ratzenberger , Wallace  shawn  ,  जेफ़  Pidgeon , Jodi Benson , R. Lee Ermey , John Morris , and Laurie Metcalf reprised their voice-over roles  इससे  the previous  films  .
जिम  Varney , who played Slinky Dog in the first two films  ,  and Joe Ranft , who portrayed Lenny and Wheezy ,  दोनो  died before production began  on   खिलौना  Story 3 .
The  भूमिका  of Slinky Dog was taken  over  by Blake Clark ( a friend of Varney ) , while Ranft 's characters and various  अन्य  were written out of the story .
New characters include performances by Ned Beatty , Timothy Dalton , Kristen Schaal , Bonnie Hunt , Whoopi Goldberg , Jeff Garlin  ,   रिचर्ड  Kind , and Michael Keaton .
The feature  broke  Shrek the Thirds record as the biggest opening day North American gross for an animated  फिल्मी  unadjusted for inflation , and  a  big opening with  an  unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189  .
It is also the  highest-grossing  opening weekend for a Pixar film , as well as the highest-grossing opening weekend for a film to have opened in the month of June .
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010 , both in  the  United States and Canada , and worldwide .
In early August , it became Pixar  's  highest-grossing film at the  उत्तर  American box office ( surpassing Finding Nemo ) , and the highest-grossing animated film of all time worldwide ( surpassing Shrek 2  )  ; later that  माह  , Toy Story 3 became the first ever animated film in history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide .
It is currently the 10th-highest-grossing film  of  all time  .
Toy Story 3 was nominated for five Academy Awards , including Best Picture , Best Adapted Screenplay , and Best Sound Editing .
It was the third animated  फिल्मी  ( after Beauty  और  the Beast and  up  ) to be nominated for Academy Award for Best Picture .
It won the awards for Best Animated Feature and Best Original Song  .
जॉन  Levell Starks ( born  अगस्त   10  , 1965 )  is  an American retired professional basketball shooting guard .
Starks was listed at 6'5 '' and 190 pounds during his NBA playing career  .
हालांकि  he was not drafted in the 1988  एनबीए  Draft after attending four colleges in his native Oklahoma , including Oklahoma State University , he gained fame while playing for the New York Knicks of  the  National Basketball Association in the 1990s  .
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory  कार्ड  format for use in portable devices , such as mobile phones , digital  कैमरे  , GPS navigation devices , and tablet computers .
The Secure Digital standard is maintained by the SD  कार्ड  Association ( SDA ) .
sd  technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across dozens of product categories and more than 8,000 models  .
The Secure Digital format  शामिल  four card families available  in  three different form factors .
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity  (  SDSC ) , the High-Capacity ( SDHC ) , the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ) , and the SDIO  ,  which combines  input/output  functions with  आंकड़ा  storage .
The three form factors are the original size , the `` mini '' size , and  the   ``  micro '' size (  देखिए  illustration ) .
There are  अनेक  combinations of  रूप  factors and  यंत्र  families .
Electrically passive adapters  allow  the use of a smaller card in a  मेजबान  device built to hold a larger card .
Host devices that comply with newer versions of  the  specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards , but this article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A  नए  card may offer greater capacity than the host device can handle .
A newer card may use a file system the host  यंत्र  can not navigate .
Use  of   an   sdio  card requires the host  यंत्र  be designed  लिये   the  input/output functions the card provides .
The organization of  the  card was changed starting with the SDHC family .
Some vendors produced SDSC cards above 1 GB before the SDA had standardized a method of doing so .
the  SDA uses  अनेक  trademarked logos to enforce compliance with its specifications and  assure  users of compatibility .
Hugh John Mungo Grant ( born 9 September 1960 ) is a British actor and film  निर्माता  .
He has received a Golden Globe  ,  a BAFTA , and an Honorary César .
His films have earned more than US $ 2.4 billion from 25 theatrical releases worldwide  .
Grant achieved  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  stardom after appearing in Richard Curtis 's successful Four Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ) .
He used this breakthrough  भूमिका  as a frequent cinematic persona during the 1990s , delivering comic performances in mainstream films like Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and Notting  हिल  ( 1999 ) .
By  the   फेरे  of the 21st  सदी  , he had established himself as a leading man skilled with a satirical comic talent .
Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ) , About A Boy ( 2002  )  , Love Actually  (  2003 ) , and American Dreamz ( 2006 ) .
He later played against type with multiple cameo roles in the epic  नाटक  film Cloud Atlas  (   2012  ) .
Within  the   फिल्मी  industry , Grant is cited as an anti-film star who approaches his roles like a character actor , and attempts to make his acting appear  spontaneous  .
Hallmarks of his  कॉमिक  skills include a nonchalant touch of irony / sarcasm and studied physical mannerisms as well as his precisely-timed dialogue delivery and facial expressions .
The entertainment media 's  कवरेज  of Grant 's life off the big screen has often  निष्प्रभ  his work as  a  thespian .
He has been vocal about his disrespect for the profession of acting , and in his disdain towards the culture of celebrity and hostility towards the media .
In a career  spanning  30  सालो  , Grant has repeatedly claimed that acting is not a true calling  लकिन  just a job he fell into .
The Han Dynasty ( ; ) ( 206 BC – 220 AD ) was  an  imperial dynasty  of  China ,  preceded  by the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD  )  .
It was founded by the rebel  नेता  Liu Bang , known posthumously as  सम्राट  Gaozu of Han .
It was  briefly  interrupted by the  xin   राजवंश  ( 9–23 AD  )  of  the  former regent Wang Mang .
This interregnum separates the Han into two periods : the Western Han ( 206 BC – 9 AD ) and Eastern Han ( 25–220 AD )  .
Spanning  over  four centuries , the period of the Han Dynasty is considered a golden age in  चाइनीज  history .
To this day ,  चीन  's  बहुमत  ethnic group refers to itself  as  the `` Han people '' and the  चाइनीज  script is referred to as  ``  Han characters `` .
The Han Empire was divided into areas directly controlled  by  the central government , known as commanderies  ,  and a number of semi-autonomous kingdoms .
ये  kingdoms  धीरे  lost all vestiges of their independence , particularly following the Rebellion of the Seven States .
The Xiongnu , a nomadic confederation which dominated the eastern Eurasian Steppe , defeated  the  Han army in battle in 200  bc  .
Following the defeat , a political marriage alliance was negotiated in  जिससे  the Han became the  de  facto  अवर  partner .
When , despite the treaty  ,  the Xiongnu  जारी  to raid  हान  borders , Emperor Wu of Han (  r.  141–87 BC )  शुभारम्भ  several military campaigns against them .
The ultimate Han victory in these  युद्धों  eventually forced the  xiongnu  to accept vassal status as Han tributaries .
These campaigns expanded Han sovereignty into the Tarim Basin of Central Asia and helped establish the vast trade network known as the Silk Road , which  पहुँचे  as far as the Mediterranean world .
Han forces managed to divide the Xiongnu into two competing nations , the  दक्षिणी  and Northern  xiongnu  , and forced the Northern Xiongnu across the Ili River  .
Despite these victories , the territories north of Han 's borders were quickly overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation .
After  92  AD , the palace eunuchs increasingly involved themselves in court politics  ,  engaging in violent  शक्ति  struggles between  the  various consort clans of the empresses and empress dowagers , causing the Han 's  परम  downfall .
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by large Daoist religious societies which instigated  the  Yellow  पगड़ी  Rebellion and the Five Pecks of Rice Rebellion .
Following the death of  सम्राट  Ling ( r. 168–189 AD ) , the  राजमहल  eunuchs  suffered  wholesale massacre by military officers , allowing members of the aristocracy and military governors to become warlords and divide the empire .
When Cao Pi , King of Wei , usurped the throne from Emperor  xian  , the Han Dynasty ceased  to  exist .
The Han Dynasty was an age  of  economic prosperity and saw a significant growth of the money economy first established during the  झोऊ  Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 BC ) .
The coinage issued by the central government mint in 119  bc  remained the standard coinage of  चीन  until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ) .
To pay  लिये  its military campaigns and the  उपनिवेश  of newly conquered frontier  territories  , the government  राष्ट्रीयकृत  the private salt and  आयरन  industries in 117 BC .
These government monopolies were repealed during the Eastern Han period , and the lost  आय  was recouped through heavily taxing private entrepreneurs .
The emperor  थी   at  the  शिखर  of Han society .
He  presided   over  the Han government but shared  शक्ति  with both the nobility and appointed ministers who came largely from the scholarly gentry class  .
From the reign of Emperor Wu onward , the Chinese court officially sponsored Confucianism in education and court  राजनीती  , synthesized  साथ  the cosmology of later scholars such as  डांग  Zhongshu .
इस  policy endured until the fall of the  चिंग  Dynasty in 1911 AD .
Science and technology during the Han period saw significant advances , including papermaking , the  nautical  steering rudder , the use of negative numbers  in  mathematics , the raised-relief map , the hydraulic -powered armillary sphere for  खगोलशास्त्र   ,  and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum .
Tourette  सिंड्रोम  ( also called  tourette  's syndrome , Tourette 's disorder , Gilles de la Tourette syndrome , GTS or  ,  more commonly , simply Tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with onset  in  childhood , characterized by multiple physical  (  motor ) tics and at least one vocal ( phonic ) tic .
These tics characteristically wax and wane , can be suppressed temporarily , and are preceded by a  premonitory  urge .
Tourette 's  is  defined as part of a spectrum  of  tic disorders ,  जिससे  includes transient and chronic tics .
Tourette 's was  एकबार  considered a rare and bizarre syndrome ,  सबसे   प्रायः  associated with the exclamation of obscene words or  socially  inappropriate and derogatory remarks ( coprolalia ) , but this symptom is present in only a small minority of people with Tourette 's .
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare condition  ,  but it  is  not always correctly identified because most  मामले  are mild and the severity of tics decreases  लिये  most children as they pass through adolescence .
Between  0.4  % and 3.8 %  of  children ages 5 to  18  may have Tourette 's ; the prevalence of transient and chronic tics in school-age  children   is  higher , with  the  more common tics of eye blinking , coughing , throat clearing , sniffing  ,  and facial movements  .
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity , and Tourette 's does not adversely affect  प्रज्ञा  or life expectancy .
Genetic and environmental factors play a role in  the  etiology of Tourette 's , but the exact causes are unknown .
In  सबसे  cases , medication is unnecessary .
There is no effective treatment for every case of tics , but certain medications and therapies can help  जब   उनके   उपयोग  is warranted .
Education is  an  important part of any treatment plan , and explanation and  reassurance  alone  हैं  often sufficient treatment .
Comorbid conditions  (  co-occurring diagnoses other than Tourette 's ) such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) and obsessive–compulsive disorder ( OCD ) are present in many patients seen in  tertiary  specialty clinics  .
These other conditions often cause more functional impairment to the individual than the tics that are the hallmark of  tourette  's , hence  it  is important to correctly identify comorbid  शर्तें  and treat them .
The eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf  of  his resident , Georges Albert Édouard Brutus  गाइल्स  de la Tourette (  1859–1904  ) , a French physician and neurologist , who published an account of nine patients with Tourette 's in 1885 .
Sunbeam badge .
Sunbeam was a marque registered by John Marston Co. Ltd of Wolverhampton , England , in 1888 .
The company first  बना  bicycles , then motorcycles and cars from the late 19th century until about 1936 , and applied the  marque   to  all three forms of transportation .
The company also manufactured aero engines in the First World War and 647 aircraft during the Second World War .
A Sunbeam was the first British car to win a Grand Prix  रेस  , and set a number of land speed records .
The company went  into  receivership in 1935 and was purchased  by  the Rootes  समूह   ,  which continued  to  use the  सनबीम  marque  .
Fox News Channel ( FNC ) , also known as Fox News , is a cable news channel owned  by  the Fox Entertainment Group , a subsidiary of News Corporation  .
as  of April 2009  ,  the  चैनल  was available to 102 million households in the United States and to viewers internationally ,  प्रसारण  primarily from its New York studios .
The channel was  निर्मित  by Australian-American media mogul Rupert  मर्डोक  , who hired former NBC executive Roger Ailes as its founding CEO .
It launched on October 7 , 1996 to 17 million cable subscribers .
It grew during the late 1990s and 2000s to become the dominant cable news network in the  संयुक्त  States .
Critics have  stated  that Fox News Channel promotes conservative political positions and biased reporting .
Commentators , news anchors , and reporters at Fox News Channel have  responded  that  न्यूज  reporting and political commentary operate independently  of  each other  ,  and have denied any  पूर्वाग्रह  in news reporting .
the  mandibular  पहला  molar or six-year  molar  is the tooth located distally  (  away from the midline of the face )  इससे  both the mandibular second premolars of the mouth but mesial ( toward the midline of the face ) from both mandibular second molars .
It is located on the mandibular ( lower ) arch of the mouth  ,  and generally opposes the  ऊर्ध्वहनु   (  upper ) first  molars  and the  ऊर्ध्वहनु  2nd  premolar  in normal  क्लास  I  occlusion  .
The function of this molar is  समान  to that of all molars in regard to grinding being the principal action during mastication ,  commonly  known as chewing .
वहीँ  are usually five well-developed cusps on  mandibular  first molars : two on the buccal ( side nearest the  गाल  ) , two lingual ( side nearest the tongue )  ,  and one distal .
There are great differences between the deciduous ( baby ) mandibular molars and those of the permanent mandibular  molars   ,  even though their function  हैं  similar .
The permanent mandibular molars are not considered to have any  दांत  that precede it .
Despite being named molars , the deciduous molars are followed by permanent premolars .
In the universal system of  संकेतन  , the deciduous  mandibular   पहला  molars are designated by a letter written in uppercase .
The right deciduous  mandibular  first molar is known as `` S  ''  , and the left  एक  is known as `` L '' .
The international notation has a different system of notation .
Thus ,  the  right deciduous mandibular first molar is  ज्ञात  as `` 84 '' , and the left one is known as `` 74 ''  .
in  the universal system of notation , the permanent mandibular first molars are designated by a number .
The right permanent mandibular first molar is known as `` 30 '' , and the left  एक  is  ज्ञात  as `` 19  ''  .
The Palmer notation uses a number in conjunction with a symbol designating in which quadrant the tooth is found .
For this tooth , the left and right  पहला   molars  would have the same number , `` 6  ''  , but the right one would have the symbol , `` ┐ '' , over it ,  जबकि  the left one would have , `` ┌ '' .
The international notation has a different numbering system  than  the previous two , and the right permanent mandibular first molar is  ज्ञात  as `` 46 '' , and the left one is known as `` 36 '' .
Mandibular primary  पहला  molars usually have four pulp horns .
The first molar is usually the  पहला  permanent tooth to erupt and has adult  undertones  .
Anatomy :  the  mandibular first molar has five cusps : the mesiobuccal ( MB  ,   toward   midline  and cheek )  ,  mesiolingual ( ML  ,  toward midline and tongue ) , distolingual  (  DL , away from midline and towards tongue ) , distobuccal ( DB , away from midline and toward cheek ) ,  और  distal ( D , away from midline ) , listed  in  order of decreasing size .
Listed in order of decreasing height they  हैं  : ML , DL , DF , MF , and D. An eighth  cusp  was  मिला  in a primary second lower molar in an Argentinean child .
Viewed from the top of the tooth ( occlusal view )  ,  the mandibular first molar is pentagonal ( five sided ) in shape and tapers  toward  the  lingual  ,  साथ  the sides being the buccal surface , the mesial  सतह  , the lingual surface ,  distal  surface , and the distobuccal surface .
The occlusal surface has  चार  grooves .
The  सेंट्रल  groove is not straight but runs down the center of the tooth  mesially  to  distally  and  contains  four pits ( mesial , central  ,  central , and distal  )  .
The distobuccal groove runs from  the  distal pit in  the  central groove  distobuccally   separating  the distal and distobuccal cusps  .
The lingual groove runs from the more distal of the  सेंट्रल  pits in the central groove toward the lingual surface between the mesiolingual  और  distolingual cusps .
The buccal groove runs from the more mesial of the  सेंट्रल   गड्ढों   in  the central groove toward the buccal surface between the mesiobuccal  और  distobuccal  पुलिन  ending in the buccal pit .
the  portion of the central groove between the central pits is  termed  the Lewis offset and is mandatory to account for the locations of the buccal and lingual grooves ( buccal groove being more mesial than the lingual groove while  वे  are parallel ) .
From the buccal  (  buccal view ) , two roots are present .
The distal root is generally straighter , although both often have a slight distal curvature .
The heights of contour on the mesial and distal contact the adjacent  दांत  and are located  at   the  junction of the occlusal and middle thirds of the crown .
The Florida Legislature is the two houses  कि  act as the state  विधानमंडल  of the U.S. state of Florida .
The Florida Constitution states that  ``  The legislative power of the state shall be vested in a legislature of the State of Florida , '' composed of a Senate and House of Representatives .
The legislature  is  seated at the Florida State Capitol in Tallahassee .
stained  glass  चित्रण  of Daniel interceding with Arioch  ,  the king 's guard .
Arioch had been charged  साथ  killing all the wise men after they were not able to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's  सपना  .
Daniel 2 is the second chapter of the Book of Daniel in  the  Hebrew Bible .
The chapter 's source text is  predominantly  written in Aramaic .
According to the text , Nebuchadnezzar is the king of Babylon who is troubled by his dreams .
He demands an interpretation for his dreams or will have his  रहस्यवादी  interpreters executed .
Daniel seeks Divine Wisdom to interpret  the  king 's dreams and praises God with a short psalm .
परमेश्वर  gives Daniel a vision in the night to  खुलासा  the king 's dream .
Able to satisfy the king , Daniel is promoted over the whole  प्रांत   of  Babylon .
One Comcast Center , the headquarters of Comcast in Philadelphia  ,  PA .
The old Comcast  लोगो  from 1969  to  1999 , when it was replaced with the crescent logo .
The Comcast Corporation is an American provider of entertainment , information and  संचार  products and services .
It is the largest cable operator , one of the biggest mass media , home Internet service provider , and third largest home telephone service provider in the United States , providing cable television , broadband Internet ,  टेलीफोन  service and in  कुछ  areas home security ( including burglar alarms , surveillance cameras , fire alarm systems and home automation ) to both residential and commercial customers in 40 states and the District  of  Columbia .
The company is headquartered in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania .
In 2011 , Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media  संगुटिका  NBCUniversal from GE in January 2011 , and began the process  of  purchasing the remaining 49 % on February 12 , 2013 , at a cost of $  16.7   अरब  .
It completed the purchase on March 19 , 2013 .
comcast  also has significant holding in several cable networks (  सहित  E !
Entertainment Television ,  स्टाइल  Network , G4 , the Golf Channel and NBC Sports  संजाल  ) , distribution ( ThePlatform  )  , and related businesses .
comcast  has been the subject of criticism for activities including its  stance  on net neutrality , as  खूब  as poor  परिणाम  on customer satisfaction surveys .
Porcupines are rodents with a coat of sharp spines , or quills , that defend and camouflage them from predators .
They are indigenous  to  the Americas , southern Asia , and Africa .
Porcupines  हैं  the third largest of the rodents , behind the capybara and the beaver .
Most porcupines are  परिचय  long , with an long tail .
Weighing , they are rounded , large  और  slow .
Porcupines  आइये  in various shades of brown ,  धूसर  , and the unusual white .
Porcupines ' spiny protection  resembles  that of the unrelated erinaceomorph  hedgehogs  and monotreme echidnas  .
The common porcupine is a  herbivore  .
it  eats leaves , herbs  ,  twigs and green plants like skunk cabbage  और   क्लोवर  and in the winter  it  may eat bark  .
the   उत्तर  American porcupine often climbs trees to  ढूँढें   खाना  .
the  African porcupine is not  a  climber and forages on the ground .
It is mostly nocturnal , but will sometimes forage for food in the day .
porcupines  have become a pest in Kenya  और  are  खाया   as  a delicacy .
The name porcupine comes from Middle French porc espin ( spined pig ) .
A regional  अमरीकी  name for the animal is quill pig .
First page of US patent 129,843 for Improvement in Lubricators for Steam-Engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May 2 , 1844 – October 10 , 1929 ) was a black Canadian-American inventor and engineer ,  जो  was notable for his 57 U.S. patents ,  सबसे  to do  साथ   चिकनाई  of steam engines .
Born free in Canada , he returned as a five-year-old child with his family to the United States in 1847 , where he lived for the rest of his life  और   became  a US citizen .
Honda FCX Clarity , a hydrogen fuel cell demonstration vehicle introduced in 2008
A  हाइड्रोजन  vehicle is a vehicle  कि  uses hydrogen as its onboard fuel for motive power .
Hydrogen vehicles include hydrogen  fueled  space rockets , as well as automobiles and other transportation vehicles .
The power plants of such vehicles convert the chemical energy of hydrogen to mechanical energy either by burning hydrogen in  an  internal combustion engine , or by reacting hydrogen with oxygen in a fuel cell to run  इलेक्ट्रिक  motors .
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling transportation is a key element of a proposed  हाइड्रोजन  economy .
Hydrogen  ईंधन  does not occur naturally on Earth and thus is not an  उर्जा  source ; rather it is an energy carrier .
It is most frequently made from methane  or  other  चट्टान  fuels , but it can be produced using sources  (  such as wind , solar , or nuclear ) that are intermittent , too diffuse or too cumbersome to  सीधे  propel vehicles .
एकीकृत  wind-to-hydrogen plants , using electrolysis of water , are exploring technologies to deliver costs low enough , and quantities great enough , to compete with traditional  उर्जा   स्त्रोत  .
Many companies are working to develop technologies that might efficiently exploit the potential of  हाइड्रोजन  energy for mobile uses .
The attraction of using hydrogen as an energy currency is that , if  हाइड्रोजन  is prepared without using  चट्टान  fuel inputs  ,  vehicle propulsion would not contribute to carbon  डाइऑक्साइड   emissions  .
the  drawbacks of hydrogen use  हैं  high capital cost , low energy content per unit volume , high tankage weights ,  बहुत  high storage vessel pressures , the storage , transportation and filling of gaseous or liquid hydrogen in vehicles , the large investment in infrastructure that would be required to fuel vehicles  ,  and the  inefficiency  of  उत्पादन  processes .
Sacramento is  the  capital city  of  the  u.S.  state of California and  the  seat of  सरकारी  of Sacramento County .
it  is located at  the  confluence of the Sacramento River and the American River in the northern portion  of  California 's expansive Central Valley .
साथ  an estimated 2011 population of 477,891 , it is the sixth-largest city in California and the 35th largest city in the United States .
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic  बीच  of the Sacramento metropolitan area  जिससे  includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area is the  चौथी   largest  in California after the Greater Los Angeles Area , San Francisco Bay  क्षेत्रफल  , and  the  San Diego metropolitan area , as well as the 25th largest in the United States .
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as America 's most ethnically and  racially  integrated city in 2002 .
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John Sutter , Sr. , his son  जॉन  Sutter , Jr. , and James W. Marshall .
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to  the  protection of Sutter 's Fort ,  जिससे  was established by Sutter in 1839 .
दौरान  the California Gold Rush , Sacramento was a major distribution point , a commercial  और  agricultural center , and a terminus for wagon  रेल  , stagecoaches  ,  riverboats , the  टेलीग्राफ  , the Pony Express , and  the  First Transcontinental Railroad .
California State University , Sacramento , more commonly known as Sacramento State or Sac State , is  the  largest local university .
It  is  one of the twenty-three  campuses  of the California State University system .
Drexel University Sacramento is located in Downtown  ,  Sacramento .
University of the  प्रशांत  's McGeorge School  of  Law is located in the Oak Park neighborhood  .
In addition , the University of California , Davis is located in nearby Davis , west of the capital .
The UC Davis Medical Center  ,  a world-renowned  शोध  hospital , is  स्तिथ  in the city of  sacramento  .
The Apple Store is a chain of retail stores owned and operated by Apple Inc. , dealing in computers and consumer electronics .
The stores sell Macintosh personal computers ,  तन्त्र  , iPods  ,  iPads , iPhones , third-party accessories , and other consumer electronics  ऐसे  as Apple TV .
Some high profile stores feature a Theatre for presentations and workshops and a Studio for training with Apple products ; all stores offer a Genius  बार  for technical support  और  repairs ,  as  well  as  free workshops available to the public .
अंतर्गत  the leadership of Ron Johnson , the former Senior Vice President  of  Retail Operations , the Apple Stores have , according to an article in the New York Times  ,  been responsible  लिये   ``  [ turning ] the boring computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled  साथ  gadgets  ''  .
, Apple has 405  स्टोर्स  worldwide , with global sales of billion in merchandise  in  2011 , and they  सीसे  the United States  खुदरा  market in terms  of  sales per unit area .
Steven  पॉल  `` Steve '' Jobs ( ; February 24 , 1955 – October 5 , 2011  )  was an American entrepreneur  और   आविष्कारक  , best known  as  the co-founder , chairman ,  और  CEO of  ठहराना  Inc .
Through Apple , he was widely  पहचाना   as  a charismatic pioneer  of  the personal  कंप्यूटर  revolution and for his  influential  career in the computer and consumer  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  fields , transforming `` one industry after another , from computers and smartphones to music and  फिल्मों  ... ''
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief executive of Pixar Animation Studios ; he became a member of the board  of  directors of  the  Walt Disney Company in 2006 ,  जब  Disney acquired  पिक्चर्स  .
Jobs was among the  पहला  to see  the  commercial potential of Xerox PARC 's  चूहा  -driven graphical user interface , which  led   to  the creation of the Apple Lisa  और  , one year later , the Macintosh .
he   भी  played a role in introducing the LaserWriter , one of the first  widely  available  लेज़र  printers , to the market .
बाद  a power struggle with the board of directors in 1985 ,  कार्य   बाएँ  Apple and founded NeXT ,  a  computer platform development  कम्पनी  specializing in the higher-education and business markets .
In 1986 , he acquired the computer graphics division of Lucasfilm , which was  spun  off as Pixar .
He was credited in Toy Story ( 1995 ) as an  कार्यपालिका  producer .
He  परोसा  as CEO and majority shareholder  जबतक  Disney 's purchase of Pixar in  2006  .
In 1996 , after Apple had failed to deliver its operating system , Copland , Gil Amelio turned to NeXT Computer , and the NeXTSTEP platform became the  न्यास  for the Mac OS X .
Jobs returned to Apple as an  सलाहकार  , and  took  control of the company as an interim CEO .
Jobs  brought  Apple from near bankruptcy to profitability by 1998 .
As  the  new CEO of  the  company , Jobs oversaw the development of  the  iMac , iTunes ,  ipod  , iPhone , and iPad , and  on  the services side , the company 's Apple Retail Stores , iTunes Store and the App Store .
The success of these products and services provided several years of stable financial returns  ,  and propelled Apple to become the  संसार  's most valuable  सरेआम  traded company  in  2011  .
The  reinvigoration  of the  कम्पनी  is regarded by many commentators as one of the  महानतम  turnarounds in business history .
In 2003 , Jobs was diagnosed with a pancreas neuroendocrine tumor .
Though it was initially treated , he reported a hormone  असंतुलन  , underwent a liver transplant in 2009 , and appeared progressively thinner as his health declined .
On medical leave for most of 2011 , Jobs resigned in August that year , and was elected  अध्यक्ष   of  the Board .
He died of respiratory  गिरफ़्तार  related  to  his metastatic tumor on October 5  ,  2011 .
कार्य  received a number of honors and public recognition for his influence in the  प्रौद्योगिकी  and music industries .
He has been referred to as  ``  legendary '' , a `` futurist ''  or   बस  `` visionary '' , and has been described as the `` Father of the Digital Revolution '' , a `` master of innovation '' , and a `` design perfectionist '' .
Entrance to section ( 52 ) of  the  Colosseum , with numerals  स्टिल  visible
Roman numerals , the numeric  प्रणाली  in ancient Rome , uses combinations of letters  इससे  the Latin alphabet to signify values .
The numbers  1  to  10  can be expressed in Roman numerals as follows:
और  .
The Roman numeral system is a cousin of Etruscan numerals .
Use of Roman numerals continued after the decline of the Roman Empire .
From the 14th century on , Roman numerals began  to  be replaced in most contexts by more convenient Hindu-Arabic  numerals  ; however this process was gradual , and the use of Roman numerals in some minor applications continues to this day .
Effective Nuclear Charge Diagram
The effective nuclear charge ( often  symbolize  as or  Z*  ) is the net positive charge experienced by an electron  in  a multi-electron atom .
The  पद   ``  effective '' is used because the  shielding   प्रभाव  of negatively charged electrons prevents higher orbital electrons from experiencing the full  नाभिकीय  charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons .
The effective nuclear charge experienced by the outer shell electron  is   भी  called the  कोर  charge .
It is possible to determine the strength of the nuclear charge by  looking   at  the oxidation number of the atom .
This is a list of  एपीसोड  from the Discovery Channel series , Storm Chasers .
A rural stretch of I-5 , with two lanes in each direction separated by a large grassy  मध्य  , and with cross-traffic limited to overpasses  और  underpasses
The Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर  National System of Interstate and Defense Highways ( commonly known as the Interstate Highway System , Interstate Freeway System , Interstate System , or simply the Interstate  )  is a  संजाल  of freeways that  फ़ॉर्म  a part of the National Highway System of the United  राज्य  .
The system is named for  अध्यक्ष  Dwight D. Eisenhower , who championed its formation .
Construction  थी  authorized by the Federal Aid Highway  अधिनियम  of 1956 , and the original portion was completed 35 years later  .
The network  रै  since been  विस्तारित  , and , it had a total length  of   ,  making it the world 's  दूसरी  longest after China 's . , about one-quarter  of  all vehicle miles driven in the country use the Interstate system .
The cost  of  construction has been estimated at $ 425 billion ( in 2006  डॉलर  ) , making it the `` largest public works program since the  पिरामिडों  ``  .
The system has contributed in shaping the United States into a world economic superpower  और  a highly industrialized  स्वदेश  .
.eu is the country code top-level domain  (   cctld  ) for  the  European Union ( EU ) .
Launched on 7 December 2005 , the domain is available for organisations in and residents of EU member states .
The TLD is administered by EURid  ,  a consortium originally  consisting  of the national ccTLD registry operators  of  Belgium ,  स्वीडन  , and Italy , joined  बाद  by the national registry operator of the Czech Republic .
Trademark owners were able to submit registrations through a sunrise  काल   ,  in  an  effort to prevent cybersquatting .
Full registration started on 7 April 2006 .
Meister means master in  जर्मनी  ( as in  निपुण  craftsman , or as an honorific title such as  meister  Eckhart )  .
The word is akin to maestro .
In sports , Meister is  प्रयुक्त  for the current national , European or world champion ( Deutscher Meister , *Europameister , Weltmeister ) .
Many modern day German police forces use the title Meister .
During the Second World  युद्ध  , Meister was  the  highest enlisted rank of the Ordnungspolizei .
Meister has been borrowed  into   अंग्रेज़ी  slang ,  जहाँ  it is used in compound nouns .
A person referred to as “Meister” is one who has extensive theoretical knowledge and practical skills in his profession  ,  business , or some other kind of work or activity .
For  उदाहरण   ,  a “puzzle-meister” would be someone  अत्यधिक   skilled   at  solving puzzles .
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for example , “stubble-meister” for someone with a short , neat beard or “crier-meister” for someone who often cries ) .
mighty  Morphin Power Rangers is an American live-action children 's television series about teenagers with super-powers , based on the 16th installment of the Japanese Super Sentai franchise , Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger .
Both the show and its related merchandise saw unbridled overnight success  ,  becoming a staple of 1990s pop culture in mere months .
Under the original name , `` Mighty Morphin Power Rangers '' the series ran from 1993 to 1995 and  शाखित  the feature film Mighty  morphin  Power Rangers :  the  Movie .
The  दूसरी  and third seasons of the show drew on footage and elements from the Super Sentai series Gosei Sentai Dairanger and Ninja Sentai Kakuranger respectively , though the Zyuranger costumes were still used  लिये  the five main Rangers and several regular villains .
तभी  the mecha and the Kiba Ranger costume ( worn by the  श्वेत  Ranger ) were retained from Dairanger for the second season , while only the mecha from Kakuranger were featured  in  the third  ऋतु  .
However the Kakuranger costumes were later used for the title characters  of  the mini-series , Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers .
The series was produced  by  MMPR Productions , distributed by Saban Entertainment , and  aired  on Fox Kids .
The show 's merchandise was  उत्पादित  and distributed by Bandai Entertainment .
in  1996  ,  the series was rebranded as the Power Rangers franchise ;  renaming  the  श्रेणी  every year  बाद  , and using costumes , props , and footage from subsequent Super Sentai series , as well as changing  the  cast and storyline .
While an  overarching  storyline  होता  continue until  शक्ति  Rangers Lost Galaxy , subsequent series after MMPR are not sequels or spin-offs in the traditional sense .
In 2010 , a re-version of Mighty Morphin  शक्ति  Rangers  ,  with a new logo , comic book-referenced graphics  ,  and extra alternative special  प्रभाव  , was broadcast on ABC Kids , and Bandai produced brand new toys to coincide with the series  .
Edgar Allan Poe ( born Edgar Poe ; January 19 , 1809 – October 7 , 1849 ) was an American author , poet , editor and literary  आलोचक  , considered part of the American Romantic Movement  .
Best known for his tales of mystery and the macabre , Poe was one of the earliest American practitioners of the short story and is generally considered the inventor of the detective  fiction   विधा  .
He is further credited with contributing to the emerging genre  of  science fiction .
He was the first well-known American writer to try to  earn  a living  through  writing alone , resulting in a financially difficult life and career .
He was born as Edgar Poe  in  Boston , Massachusetts ; he was orphaned young when his mother died shortly after his father abandoned the family  .
पो  was  लिया   in  by John and  frances  Allan , of Richmond , Virginia , but they never formally adopted him .
He attended the University of Virginia for one semester but left due  to  lack of money .
After enlisting in the Army and later failing as an officer 's cadet at West Point , Poe parted ways with the Allans  .
उसके  publishing career began humbly , with an anonymous  संग्रहण   of  poems , Tamerlane and Other Poems ( 1827 ) , credited  तभी  to `` a Bostonian '' .
Poe  switched  his focus to prose and spent the next several years working  लिये  literary journals and periodicals , becoming known for  उसके  own style of literary criticism .
His  कार्य  forced him to move among several cities , including Baltimore , Philadelphia , and New York City .
In  बाल्टीमोर  in  1835  , he married Virginia Clemm , his 13-year-old cousin .
In January 1845 Poe published his poem  ,  `` The Raven `` , to instant success .
His  बीवी  died of tuberculosis two years after its publication .
he  began planning to produce  उसके  own journal , The Penn ( later renamed The Stylus ) ,  हालांकि  he died before  it  could be produced .
On October 7 , 1849 , at age 40 , Poe died in Baltimore ; the cause of his  मौत  is unknown and has been variously attributed  to   दारू  ,  दिमाग  congestion , cholera , drugs ,  दिल  disease , rabies , suicide , tuberculosis , and other agents .
पो  and his works influenced literature in the United States and around the world , as  खूब  as in specialized fields , such as cosmology and cryptography .
Poe and his work appear  throughout   लोकप्रिय  culture in literature  ,  music , films , and television .
A number of his homes are dedicated museums today .
The Mystery Writers of America present an annual award known  as  the Edgar Award for distinguished work in the mystery genre .
Lions are obligate carnivores ; they  आवश्यकता  up to seven  गामा  ( 15 lbs ) of meat per day .
A major component of their diet is the  flesh   of  large mammals , like this African buffalo .
A carnivore (  )  meaning 'meat eater ' ( Latin , caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' and vorare meaning 'to devour  '  ) is an organism that derives its energy and nutrient  आवश्यकताएँ  from a diet  consisting  mainly or  exclusively  of animal tissue , whether through predation or scavenging .
पशु  that depend solely on animal flesh for their nutrient requirements are considered carnivores while those that also consume non-animal  खाना  are considered carnivores .
Omnivores also consume both animal and non-animal food , and apart from the more general definition , there is no clearly defined ratio of plant to animal material that would distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore  .
A carnivore that sits at  the  top of the foodchain  is  an  apex  predator .
पौधे   कि  capture and digest insects are called carnivorous plants .
Similarly , fungi that  कैप्चर  microscopic animals are often called carnivorous fungi .
The FIFA World  कप  , often simply the World Cup , is an international association football competition contested by the  वरिष्ठ   मेन  's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport  's  global governing body  .
The championship  रै  been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930 , except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War .
The current champions are Spain , who won the 2010 tournament  .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams  स्पर्धा  for the title at venues within the  मेजबान  nation ( s ) over a period of about a month  ;  this phase is  प्रायः  called the World Cup Finals .
A  योग्यता  phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years , is used to  determine  which teams qualify  लिये  the tournament together with the  मेजबान  nation ( s ) .
The 19  संसार  Cup tournaments have been won by eight different national teams .
Brazil have won five times , and they are the only team to have played  in  every  टूर्नामेंट  .
The other World Cup winners  हैं  Italy  ,  with four titles  ;  Germany  ,  with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay  ,  with  दो  titles each ; and England , France , and Spain , with  एक  title each .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The  अगला  three World Cups will be hosted  by  Brazil in 2014 , Russia in 2018 , and Qatar in  2022  .
Heroes is an American science fiction television drama series created by Tim Kring that appeared on  एनबीसी  for four  सीज़न  from September 25  ,   2006  through February 8 , 2010  .
the  series tells the stories of ordinary people who discover superhuman abilities , and  कैसा  these abilities take effect in the  वर्ण  ' lives .
The series emulates  the  aesthetic style and storytelling of American comic books , using multi-episode story arcs that build upon a larger , more encompassing arc .
The series was produced by Tailwind Productions in association with  सार्वभौमिक  Media Studios .
It was filmed primarily in Los Angeles , California .
Four complete seasons aired , ending on February  8  , 2010 .
The critically  acclaimed  first season had a run  of  23 episodes and garnered an average of 14.3 million viewers in the United  राज्य  , receiving  the  highest rating for an NBC drama premiere in five years .
The second season of Heroes attracted an average of 13.1 million  दर्शक  in the U.S. , and marked NBC 's sole series among the top 20 ranked programs in total viewership for the 2007–2008 season .
Heroes has earned a number of awards and  nominations  , including Primetime Emmy Awards , Golden Globes , People 's Choice Awards and British Academy Television Awards .
An online extension of the series , Heroes 360 Experience , later rebranded as Heroes Evolutions , was created to explore the Heroes universe and provides insight into the show 's mythology .
Other official  नायक  media include magazines , action figures , tie-in and interactive websites  ,  a mobile game , a novel , clothing and other merchandise .
In the fall of 2008 ,  एनबीसी   डिजिटल  Entertainment released a series of online content  लिये  the summer ,  सहित  more original web content , wireless iTV interactivity , graphic novels  उपलब्धियाँ  for  मोबाईल  viewing and webisodes .
NBC announced Heroes cancellation on May  14  , 2010 .
afterward  , the network  माना  making a  टेलीविज़न  special event to conclude the series ; however , on September  9  , 2010 , NBC announced the decision to stop  कोई  further development of the Heroes franchise .
Tim Kring then  सुझाया  that the broad premise  of  Heroes storylines allowed for the  मताधिकार  to return for fans , but he  किया  not  बताएँ  when or in  कया  media  स्वरूप  .
On April 17 , 2013 , TV Line reported that MSN was in talks to revive the series with a new cast .
John Pierpont `` J. P . ''
Morgan ( April 17 , 1837 –  कूच  31 , 1913 ) was an American  फाइनेंसर  ,  बैंकर  , philanthropist and art collector  जो   वर्चस्व  corporate finance and industrial  consolidation  during his time  .
in  1892  मॉर्गन  arranged the merger of Edison General Electric and Thomson-Houston Electric Company to form General Electric .
बाद  financing the creation of the Federal Steel  कम्पनी  , he merged in 1901 with the Carnegie Steel Company and several other steel and iron businesses , including Consolidated Steel and Wire Company owned by William Edenborn  ,  to form the United States Steel Corporation .
Morgan died in Rome , Italy , in his sleep in  1913  at the  आयु  of  75  , leaving his fortune  और  business to his son ,  जॉन  Pierpont `` Jack '' Morgan , Jr. , and  bequeathing  his mansion and large book collections to The Morgan Library &  संग्रहालय   in  New York .
At the height of  मॉर्गन  's career during  the  early 1900s , he and  उसके  partners had financial investments in many large corporations and were accused by critics of controlling the nation 's high finance  .
He directed the banking  गठबन्धन  that stopped the Panic  of  1907 .
He was the leading financier  of  the Progressive Era  ,  and his dedication to efficiency and  modernization  helped transform American business .
This is  a  list  of   एपीसोड  of  the  television series .
The episodes were directed by Shigeru Ueda  और   उत्पादित  by the Yggdrasil Executive Committee which included Xebec and Genco .
The plot of the episodes is set in Tokyo and revolves around Rin Asōgi , an immortal private  अन्वेषक  , as she explores the secrets of modern  और  near-future world and the supernatural events that surround the  fictional  society of immortals like herself .
There  हैं  large time gaps in the internal chronology between the first  पाँच   एपीसोड  , ranging from  एक  to thirty years .
the   छह  episodes  यहूद   ब्रॉडकास्ट  monthly on AT-X channel in Japan ,  between  February 3 and July 6 , 2008 .
Each episode is 45  मिनट्स  long .
Two  टुकड़े  of theme music are  प्रयुक्त  for the episodes : the opening theme `` Alsatia '' and the ending theme ``  कारण  Disarray '' .
Both  यहूद  composed and performed  by  the Japanese metal band Galneryus  .
The series was produced to commemorate the tenth  वर्षगांठ  of the AT-X network it originally aired on .
Aerial photo of FLETC , where  us  digital forensics standards were developed in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes known as digital forensic science )  is  a branch of forensic science encompassing the recovery and investigation of material found in digital devices , often in relation to  कंप्यूटर   अपराधों  .
The term digital forensics was originally used as a synonym for computer forensics but  रै  expanded to cover  छानबीन  of all devices capable of  storing  digital data .
साथ  roots in the personal computing revolution  of  the late 1970s and  जल्दी  '80s , the discipline evolved  in  a haphazard manner during the 1990s , and it was not until the  जल्दी   21st  century that national policies emerged .
डिजिटल  forensics investigations have a variety of applications .
The most common is  to  support or refute a hypothesis before criminal or civil ( as part of the electronic discovery process ) courts .
Forensics may also feature in the private sector  ;   ऐसे  as during internal corporate  investigations  or intrusion investigation ( a specialist probe into the nature and extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ) .
The technical aspect of an investigation is divided into  अनेक  sub-branches , relating to the type of digital devices involved ; computer forensics , network forensics , forensic data analysis  और  mobile device forensics .
The typical forensic process encompasses the  seizure  , forensic imaging ( acquisition ) and analysis of digital media and the production of a report into collected evidence .
As well as identifying  सीधा   प्रमाण  of  a  crime  ,  digital forensics can be used to attribute evidence to specific  संदिग्धों  , confirm alibis or statements , determine  intent  , identify sources ( for example ,  in  copyright cases ) , or authenticate documents .
Investigations are much broader in  पैमाना  than other areas of forensic analysis ( where the usual aim is to provide answers to a series of simpler questions ) often involving complex time-lines or hypotheses .
A comparison of the chromaticities enclosed by some color spaces .
A color model is an abstract mathematical model describing the way  रंगों  can  be  represented as tuples  of  numbers , typically as three or four values or color components ( e.g . RGB and CMYK are color models  )  .
However , a color model with no associated mapping function to an absolute color space is a more or less arbitrary color system with no connection to any globally understood system of color interpretation .
Adding a certain  मानचित्रण   फलन  between the color model  और   a  certain  सन्दर्भ  color space results in a definite `` footprint '' within the reference color space .
This `` footprint '' is known as a gamut , and , in combination with the color model  ,  defines a  नई  color space .
For example , Adobe RGB and sRGB are two different absolute color spaces ,  दोनो  based on  the  RGB model .
In the most  जेनेरिक  sense  of  the definition above , color spaces can be defined without the use of a color model .
These spaces , such as Pantone ,  हैं  in effect a given set of names or numbers which are  पारिभाषित  by the existence of  a  corresponding set of physical color swatches .
This article focuses  on  the mathematical model concept .
Labor Day is an American federal holiday observed  on  the first Monday in September , that  मनाता  the economic and social contributions  of  workers .
Life insurance is a contract between an insured ( insurance policy holder ) and an insurer , where the insurer promises to  अदा  a designated beneficiary  a   योग  of money ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the death of the insured person .
Depending on the contract , other events such as terminal illness or critical illness may  भी  trigger payment .
the  policy  होल्डर  typically pays a premium  ,  either regularly or as a lump sum .
Other expenses ( such as funeral expenses ) are also sometimes included in  the   लाभ  .
Life policies are legal contracts and the terms of the contract describe the limitations of the insured  कार्यक्रम  .
Specific exclusions are often written into the contract  to  limit the liability of the insurer  ;  common examples are claims relating to suicide , fraud , war , riot and civil commotion  .
Life-based contracts tend to fall into two major categories:
सुरक्षा  policies – designed to provide a benefit in the event  of  specified event , typically a lump sum  भुगतान  .
A common form of this design  is  term insurance .
Investment policies – where the main objective  is  to  सुकर  the  विकास   of  capital by  नियमित  or single premiums .
Common forms ( in the  us  ) are whole  जीवन  , universal life and variable life policies .
{ { Infobox Holiday
Chinese New Year
9 – 12 February (  वियतनाम  )
Mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born  may  2 , 1962 in Yorba Linda , Orange  काउंटी  , California ) is an American actress  ,  also credited and more popularly known as Mitzi Kapture .
Kapture began  उसके  career in films , most of which were not huge commercial successes .
She  गई  on to make a few television guest appearances ( MacGyver , 1st & Ten , and  as  a contestant on The $ 100,000 Pyramid ) before she gained international exposure  साथ   उसके   पहला  major television role as Sergeant Rita Lee Lance in the television series  रेशा  Stalkings  .
Kapture 's role as Rita , the other half of the two ``  sams  '' for almost 5 years , cemented  उसके  popularity .
Paired with Rob Estes who played Sergeant Chris Lorenzo , Kapture  gained  global recognition along with her costar since  the  show was broadcast in several countries  .
Sergeant Lance  आखिरकार  became Lieutenant Lance by the time Kapture  बाएँ  the series in 1995 to have her first child  मैडिसन  .
During her  समय  with  the  series , Kapture briefly  सत  in  the  director 's chair , for two episodes .
She was interviewed for the Silk Stalkings Season 1 DVD which was  वितरित  by Anchor Bay Entertainment  और  released in  सितंबर  2004 .
After a  छोटी  hiatus from  the  screen following her exit from Silk Stalkings , Kapture returned in 1997 to the small screen and USA Network .
She  निभाई  lead roles in two USA Pictures Originals telemovies , Perfect Crime ( based on  a  true story , also called Hide and Seek  :  The Joanne  जेन्सेन  Story ) , which also starred Jasmine Guy and  उसके  Bodyguard .
She later starred in a  few  other independent  फिल्मी  projects and theatre productions and had several television  अतिथि  appearances  .
Kapture also had a recurring role on Baywatch as Alexis Ryker .
She played Anita Hodges on The  यंग  and the  बेचैन  from 2002 through 2004 , where she was credited as Mitzi Kapture Donahue , and  स्ट्रक्चर  in the made-for-TV movie Night  of  Terror which premiered March 26 , 2006 on Lifetime Network .
Her latest  is  a supporting role in God 's Ears , released in 2007 .
Kapture is the official celebrity  प्रवक्ता   लिये  the Xeroderma Pigmentosum Society .
The Xbox  360  is the second video game console developed by and produced for Microsoft  और  the successor to the Xbox .
the   एक्सबॉक्स  360 competes with Sony  's  PlayStation 3 and Nintendo  's  Wii as part of the seventh  पीढी  of video  खेल  consoles .
As of September  30  , 2012  ,  70  लाख  Xbox 360 consoles have been sold worldwide .
The Xbox 360 was officially  अनावरण  on  एमटीवी   on  May 12 ,  2005  , with detailed launch and game information divulged later that month at the Electronic Entertainment Expo  (  E3 ) .
The console sold out completely upon release  in  all regions except in Japan .
Several major features of the Xbox 360 are  इसके  integrated  एक्सबॉक्स  Live service  कि  allows players  to  compete online ; download arcade games , game demos ,  trailers  , TV shows ,  म्यूज़िक  and movies ; and its Windows Media Center multimedia capabilities .
The Xbox Live  भी   offers  access to various ( often region-specific ) third-party media streaming applications .
At their E3 presentation  on  June 14 , 2010 , Microsoft announced a redesigned Xbox 360 that would ship on the same day .
The redesigned console is slimmer than the previous Xbox 360 model and features integrated 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi , TOSLINK S/PDIF optical audio  आउटपुट  ,  पाँच   usb   2.0  ports ( compared to the three from older versions ) and  a  special AUX port .
Older models of the Xbox 360 have since been discontinued .
The first new console to  be  released features a 250 GB hard  ड्राइव  , while a later , less expensive SKU features 4 GB internal storage .
Backpack may also refer to a 2001 novel by Emily Barr
A modern backpack
स्विस  army backpack ca . 1960
एकीकृत  bearer frame .
A backpack ( also called rucksack , knapsack , packsack , pack ) is , in its simplest form , a cloth sack carried on one 's back and secured with two straps that go over the shoulders , but there  can  be exceptions  .
Lightweight types of backpacks are sometimes worn on only one  कंधे  strap .
Backpacks are often preferred to handbags for carrying heavy loads or carrying any sort of equipment , because of the limited capacity to carry heavy weights  लिये  long periods of time in the hands  .
Large  backpacks  , used to carry loads over  10  kg (  22  lbs ) , usually offload the largest  भाग   (  up to about 90 % ) of their weight onto padded hip belts ,  leaving  the shoulder  straps  mainly for stabilising the load .
इस  improves the potential to carry heavy loads , as the hips are stronger than the shoulders , and also increases agility and balance , since  the  load rides nearer the  wearer  's own center of mass  .
In ancient  टाइम्स  , the  backpack  was used as a means to carry the  शिकारी  's larger game and other types of prey and as  a  way of easier transport for other materials .
In the cases  of  larger hunts , the  hunters  would dismember their prey and distribute the pieces of the animal  around  , each  एक  packing the meat into many wrappings and then into bags which they placed on to their backs .
The bag itself was made up of different animal hide and  स्किन  ( depending  on  what sorts  of  animals  यहूद  in the  क्षेत्रफल  ) and sewn together by the intestines of said animals ,  जिससे   यहूद  woven together tightly to make  a  sturdy thread-like material .
Mexico  (   ;  ; ) , officially the United Mexican States ( ) ,  is  a federal  संवैधानिक  republic in North America .
It is bordered on the north by the United States ; on the south and west by the Pacific Ocean ; on the  southeast  by  ग्वाटेमाला  , Belize , and  the  Caribbean Sea ; and on the east by the Gulf  of  Mexico .
covering  almost two million square kilometres ( over 760,000 sq mi ) , Mexico is the fifth largest country  in  the Americas by total area and the 13th largest independent nation in the world .
With an estimated population of over 113 million , it is the  संसार  's eleventh most populous country  और   the  most populous Spanish-speaking country .
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one states and a Federal District , the  पूंजी  city .
In pre-Columbian Mexico many cultures matured into  उन्नत   सभ्यताओं  such as the  olmec  , the Toltec , the Teotihuacan , the Zapotec , the Maya and the Aztec before first  सम्पर्क  with Europeans .
In 1521 , Spain conquered and colonized the territory from its base in  méxico-tenochtitlan  , which was administered as the Viceroyalty of New Spain  .
This territory would eventually become Mexico following recognition of the colony 's independence in 1821 .
The  post-independence  period was characterized by economic instability , the Mexican-American  युद्ध  and territorial cession to the United States , a civil war , two empires and a domestic  तानाशाही  .
The latter led to the Mexican Revolution in 1910 ,  जिससे  culminated with  the  promulgation of the 1917 Constitution and  the  emergence of the country 's  वर्तमान  political system .
Elections  आयोजित  in July 2000 marked the first time that an opposition party won the presidency  इससे  the Institutional Revolutionary Party .
Since 2006 the country has been in the midst of a drug war which has  caused  60,000 deaths .
Mexico has one of  the  world 's largest  economies  , and is considered both a regional power and middle power .
In addition , Mexico was the first Latin American member of the Organisation for  आर्थिक  Co-operation and Development OECD  (  since 1994 ) , and considered an upper-middle income country by the World Bank .
Mexico is considered a newly industrialized country and an emerging  शक्ति  .
It has the fourteenth  largest  nominal GDP and the eleventh largest GDP by purchasing  शक्ति  parity .
The economy is strongly linked to those of its North  अमरीकी  Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) partners , especially the United  राज्य  of America .
Mexico ranks sixth in  the  world and first in the Americas  by   क्रमांक  of UNESCO World Heritage Sites with 31 , and in 2007 was the tenth  सबसे  visited country in the world with 21.4 million international arrivals  प्रति  year  .
Babe Ruth holds the MLB  करियर  slugging percentage record  (  .690 ) .
In  बेसबॉल  statistics ,  slugging  percentage ( abbreviated SLG ) is  a  popular measure of the  शक्ति   of  a hitter .
It is calculated as total bases  विभाजित  by at bats :
where AB  is  the number  of  at-bats for a given player ,  और  1B , 2B , 3B , and HR are the number of singles , doubles , triples , and home runs , respectively .
Walks are specifically excluded  इससे  this calculation .
For example , in 1920 , Babe Ruth  निभाई  his first season for the New York Yankees .
in  458 at bats , Ruth had 172 hits , comprising 73 singles , 36 doubles , 9 triples , and 54 home runs , which brings the total base count to ( 73  ×  1 )  +  ( 36 × 2 ) + (  9  × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388 .
His total number of bases ( 388 ) divided by his total at-bats ( 458 ) is .847 , his slugging percentage for the season .
The next year he slugged .846 , and these records went unbroken until 2001 , when Barry Bonds achieved 411 bases in 476 at-bats , bringing  उसके  slugging percentage to .863 , unmatched since .
is a role-playing video game  विकसित  and published by Square ( now Square Enix ) for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in  1995  .
Chrono Trigger 's development team included three designers that Square dubbed the `` Dream Team ''  :  Hironobu Sakaguchi , the creator of Square 's Final Fantasy series ; Yuji Horii , a  freelance   पंक्तियां  and creator  of  Enix 's popular Dragon Quest series ; and Akira Toriyama , a freelance manga artist famed for his work with  ड्रैगन  Quest and Dragon  बॉल   .
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the game , Masato Kato wrote most of  the  plot , while composer Yasunori Mitsuda scored most of the game before falling ill and deferring remaining tracks to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu .
The game 's story follows a group of adventurers who  सफर  through  समय  to prevent a global  प्रलय  .
Square re-released a  ported  version by  tose  in Japan  लिये  Sony 's PlayStation in 1999 , later repackaged with a  फाइनल  Fantasy IV port as Final Fantasy Chronicles in 2001 for the North American market  .
A slightly enhanced Chrono Trigger was released for the Nintendo DS on November 25 , 2008 , in North America and Japan , and went on sale in Australia on February 3 , 2009 and in Europe on February 6 , 2009 .
The game was never released  in  PAL territories before the Nintendo DS version .
Chrono Trigger was a critical and commercial success upon release and is  माना  today to be one of the greatest video games of all time .
निन्टेंडो  Power magazine described aspects of Chrono  ट्रिगर  as revolutionary , including its multiple endings , plot-related sidequests focusing  on  character  विकास   ,  unique battle system , and detailed graphics  .
Chrono Trigger  थी  the third best-selling  खेल  of 1995 ,  और  the game 's SNES and PlayStation iterations  have  shipped 2.65 million  नक़ल   as  of March 2003 .
The version  लिये  the Nintendo DS sold 790,000 copies as of March 2009  .
Chrono Trigger was also ported to mobile phones  ,  Virtual Console , the PlayStation  संजाल  ( only in the USA ) , iOS devices , and Android devices .
Goat  चीज
Goat cheese , or chèvre ( from the French word for goat )  ,  is cheese made out of the milk of goats .
Hyperthermia is elevated body  तापमान  due to failed thermoregulation that occurs when a body produces or absorbs more heat than it  dissipates  .
Extreme temperature elevation then becomes a medical emergency requiring immediate  उपचार  to prevent disability or death .
The most common causes include heat stroke and adverse reactions to drugs .
The former is an acute temperature elevation caused by exposure to excessive heat , or combination of heat and humidity , that overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms  .
the  latter is a relatively rare  पक्ष  effect of many drugs  ,  particularly those that affect the central  बेचैन  system .
Malignant hyperthermia is a  विरल  complication of some types of general anesthesia  .
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical  डिवाइस  and may  be  used in  the  treatment of some kinds of cancer and other conditions , most commonly in conjunction  साथ  radiotherapy .
Hyperthermia differs  इससे   ज्वर  in that  the  body 's  तापमान  set point remains unchanged .
The opposite  is  hypothermia , which  occurs   जब  the temperature drops below that required to maintain normal metabolism .
Belize , is a  देश  located on the northeastern coast of Central America .
It  is  the only country in the area  जहाँ   अंग्रेज़ी  is the official language , although  kriol  and Spanish are more commonly spoken .
Belize is bordered  on  the north by Mexico , to the south and west by Guatemala and to the east by the  caribbean   समुद्र  .
Its mainland is  परिचय  long and wide .
With of land and a population of only 312,698 inhabitants ( 2010 census ) , Belize possesses the lowest population density in Central  अमेरिका  .
The country 's population growth rate  of  3.15 % ( 2012 est . ) is the  दूसरी  highest in the region and one  of  the  उच्चतम  in the western hemisphere .
Belize 's abundance of terrestrial and marine species , and its diversity of ecosystems give it  a  key place within  the  globally significant Mesoamerican  biological  Corridor .
Belize has a diverse society , comprising many cultures and  भाषाएं  .
It is the only nation in the  प्रदेश  with a British colonial heritage , but as a part of the  पश्चिमी   caribbean  Zone , it also  साझा  a common heritage with the fellow Anglophone Caribbean countries .
in  general , Belize is considered to  be  a Central American and Caribbean nation  साथ  strong ties to both the Caribbean and Latin America .
Belize is a  सदस्य  of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ) , the Community  of  Latin  अमरीकी  and Caribbean States ( CELAC ) , and Central American Integration System ( SICA ) .
Belize  is  known for its  सितंबर  Celebrations , and is the birthplace of chewing gum and Punta  चट्टान  .
The `` Betsy Ross '' flag
A `` Betsy Ross ''  ध्वज  flying outside San Francisco City  हॉल
The  बेट्सी   रॉस  flag is an early  डिज़ाइन  of the flag of the United States , popularly attributed  to  Betsy Ross , using the common motifs of alternating red-and-white striped field with  five-pointed  stars in a blue canton .
The flag was designed during the American Revolution and features 13  सितारों  to represent the original 13 colonies .
The distinctive feature  of   the  Ross flag is  the  arrangement of the stars in a circle  .
Although the Betsy Ross story is accepted  by  most Americans , some flag historians and revisionists do not accept the Betsy Ross design as the first American  ध्वज  .
According  to  the traditional account ,  the  original flag was made in June 1776 , when a  छोटी  committee—including George Washington ,  रॉबर्ट  Morris and relative George Ross —visited Betsy and discussed  the  need for a new American flag .
Betsy accepted the job to  manufacture   the  flag , altering the committee 's design by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed stars  .
While the Betsy Ross legend is questionable , the flag design is known to have been in  उपयोग  by 1777 ; Alfred B . Street described it at the surrender of  सामान्य  Burgoyne and understood the circle of stars  to  represent  समता  among the American states .
It is one  of  the oldest versions of  u.S.  flags known to exist ; while  it  is not the oldest surviving flag artifact in cloth form , its likeness appears on older physical relics ,  namely   ,   the  contemporary battlefield paintings by  जॉन  Trumbull  और  Charles Willson Peale .
They depict the circular star arrangement  होने  flown from ship masts and many other places , and thus provide the first known historical documentation of the flag 's appearance  .
The seal of the U.S. Department  of   दिग्गजों  Affairs uses the Betsy Ross flag to represent service to all veterans from  the  American Revolution to the present  दिन   .
The Betsy Ross design of 13-star US flags has  महरूम  featured in many popular artworks (  sometimes  inaccurately , as in Washington Crossing the Delaware ) and films , such as the 1960 version of Pollyanna .
The flag continues to be one of the most popular symbols of the American  क्रान्ति  .
A purr is a sound made by all  प्रजाति  of felids and is a part of cat communication .
It varies between cats  (  for example by loudness and tone ) , and from species to species  ,  but can  be  characterized as a tonal buzzing .
The term  ``  purring '' has been used liberally in literature ,  और   it  has been claimed that viverrids ( civet , mongoose ,  genet  ) , bears , badgers ,  hyaenas  ( et cetera ) purr .
Other animals that have been said to purr are rabbits , squirrels , guinea  सूअर  ,  tapirs  , ring-tailed lemurs , elephants , raccoons and gorillas while eating .
However , using a strict definition of purring that continuous sound production must alternate between pulmonic egressive and ingressive airstream ( and usually  go  on for minutes ) , Peters ( 2002 ) ,  in  an exhaustive review of the scientific literature , reached the conclusion  कि  until then only ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) and two species of genets , Genetta tigrina , and most likely also Genetta genetta , had been documented to purr .
the  platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus  )  is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , including Tasmania .
Together with the  चार  species of echidna , it is  एक  of the five extant  प्रजाति  of monotremes , the  तभी  mammals that  lay   अंडे  instead of giving birth .
It is the  एकमात्र  living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ) , though a number  of  related species have been found in the fossil record .
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying , duck -billed , beaver -tailed ,  otter  -footed mammal baffled European naturalists when they first encountered it ,  साथ  some considering it an elaborate fraud .
It  is  one of the few venomous mammals  ,  the male  platypus  having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans  .
The  अद्वितीय  features of the platypus make it  an  important subject in the study of evolutionary biology and a recognisable and iconic symbol  of   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  ;  it  has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its  20-cent  coin .
The platypus is the  एनिमल  emblem of the state of New South Wales .
जबतक  the early 20th century , it was hunted for its fur  ,  but it is now protected throughout its range .
Although captive breeding programmes have had only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of  प्रदूषण  , it is not under any immediate  threat  .
St. Elizabeth is  a  village in Miller County , Missouri , United  राज्य  .
The population was 336 at the  2010  census .
wilton  is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in Sacramento County ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , United  राज्य  .
It is part of  the  Sacramento – Arden-Arcade – Roseville Metropolitan Statistical Area .
The population was 5,363 at the 2010 census , up from  4,551  at the 2000 census .
In human-computer interaction , cut and paste and copy and paste are  सम्बन्धित  commands that offer a user-interface interaction technique for transferring text , data ,  फाइलें  or objects from a source to a  गंतव्य  .
Most ubiquitously , users require the ability to cut and paste sections of plain text .
The cut command removes the selected data from its original position  ,  while the copy command creates a duplicate ; in both  मामले  the selected data is placed in a clipboard  .
The data in the clipboard is later  inserted  in the position where the paste command is issued .
The command names are an interface metaphor based on the physical procedure used  in   पाण्डुलिपि  editing to create a page  लेआउट  .
This interaction technique has close associations with  सम्बन्धित  techniques in graphical user interfaces that  उपयोग  pointing devices such  as  a computer mouse  (  by drag and drop , for  उदाहरण  ) .
Economic order  मात्रा  is the order  मात्रा  that minimizes total inventory holding  लागत  and ordering costs .
It is one of the oldest classical production scheduling models .
The framework used to determine this order quantity is also known as Barabas EOQ Model or Barabas Formula  .
The model was developed by Ford W. Harris in 1913 , but R. H. Wilson , a consultant who applied it extensively , is given credit for his in-depth analysis .
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3 , 1954 – August 27 , 1990 ) was an American guitarist , singer-songwriter , and record producer .
Often referred to by his initials SRV , Vaughan is best known as a founding member and leader of Double Trouble .
Together with drummer Chris Layton and bassist  टॉमी  Shannon , they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s .
With a career  spanning  seven years , Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently sold out concerts while their albums frequently went gold .
He was born  और  raised in  डलास  , Texas  ,  and for a short period of  समय  lived in Graham , Texas  .
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan ,  vaughan  started playing the guitar at  आयु  seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs .
At age 17 , he dropped out  of  high school and moved to Austin to further pursue his musical career , joining groups  ऐसे   as  Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers , and the Cobras .
In 1977 , he formed Triple Threat Revue , a band that eventually evolved into Double Trouble and regularly performed around Austin  .
In 1982 , Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at  the  Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland , catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne .
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on  उसके  upcoming studio album Let 's Dance , while  browne  offered the  बैंड  free use of his personal studio  in  Los Angeles to record  an  album .
In March 1983 ,  vaughan  and Double Trouble were  हस्ताक्षरित  to  एपिक   रिकॉर्ड  by veteran record producer John  हैमंड  Sr. and  released  their debut album , Texas Flood in June of that year .
After successful touring  ,  the group released the albums , Could n't  स्टैंड   the  Weather ( 1984 ) and Soul  to  Soul  (  1985  )  , the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans .
Although his  करियर  had  progressed  successfully , Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in  अटलांटा  , Georgia to give up a cocaine and alcohol habit and returned  to  touring with the band .
In June 1989 , In  कदम  was released and earned  उन्हें  a Grammy Award for Best  समकालीन   ब्लूज़  Performance .
On August 27 , 1990 , Vaughan  थी  killed in a helicopter crash following  a   प्रदर्शन  in East Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet  तीव्र   स्टाइल  was derived from a variety of musical genres .
He was influenced by blues musicians including Albert King , Freddie King  ,  Otis  फटाफट  , and Muddy  waters  , and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
His guitar playing reflected the classic blues and pentatonic scales .
He has received wide critical recognition for his guitar playing , ranking at  #  6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest  guitarists  '' in 2011 .
He was  मरणोपरांत  inducted into the  ब्लूज़  Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park .
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the greatest musicians to come from the state of Texas  .
the  Las Vegas Strip  संसार  of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores , restaurants  ,  and vending machines in  प्रत्येक  country except Cuba  और  North Korea .
It  is  produced  by  The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta  ,  Georgia , and is  प्रायः  referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944  )  .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was  invented   in  the late 19th  सदी  by John  pemberton  , Coca-Cola was  खरीदा  out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler  ,  whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance  of  the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the  कम्पनी  , produce finished product in cans  और  bottles from the  concentrate  in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then sell , distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises  ,   जिससे  is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in  उत्तर  America and western Europe  .
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate  लिये  soda fountains to major restaurants and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company  रै  , on occasion  ,  introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand name  .
The most common of these is Diet Coke , with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola , Diet Coke Caffeine-Free , Coca-Cola Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero  ,   coca-cola  Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011 , Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand .
Barry Louis Larkin ( born April  28  , 1964 ) is a retired Major League Baseball player .
Larkin played shortstop for the Cincinnati Reds from  1986  to 2004  और  was one of the pivotal players on  the  1990 Reds ' World Series championship team .
Larkin was elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame in January  2012  and was inducted on July 22 .
Larkin is considered one of the  शीर्ष  players of his era , winning nine Silver  slugger  awards and three Gold Glove awards  .
he   थी  selected to the Major  लीग   all-star  Game twelve times , and was elected the 1995 National  लीग  Most  मूल्यवान  Player .
Brasília ( ) is the federal capital of Brazil and the  सीट  of government  of  the Federal District .
Administratively , the city is located in the  संघीय  District which  is  in the Central-West  प्रदेश  .
Physically , it is located in  the  Brazilian Highlands .
It has a population of about 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the metropolitan area ) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate , making it the  चौथी  largest  नगर  in Brazil .
However , as a metropolitan area , it ranks lower at sixth in population .
Brasília is the largest city in the world that did not exist at the beginning of the 20th century .
Brasília has the fifth largest GDP among Latin American cities  और  the third in Brazil  .
At around R  $   62,000  Brazilian reais ( equal to approximately $  30,900  US  डॉलर  or €23,000  euros  ) , the city 's per capita income is the highest among Brazil 's largest cities .
As the national capital , Brasília is the seat of all  तीन  branches of the federal  सरकारी  of Brazil .
The  नगर  also hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies .
Planning policies such as the location of residential  इमारतें  around expansive urban areas ,  as  well as building the city  around  large avenues and dividing it into sectors , have sparked a  बहस  and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century  .
The city 's design divides it into numbered blocks  as  well as  सेक्टर  for specified activities , such as the Hotel Sector , the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector  .
Brasília hosts 124 foreign embassies .
the  city was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal  शहरी  planner , Oscar Niemeyer as the principal architect and Roberto Burle Marx as the landscape designer .
Brasilia is in  the  Unesco 's World Hertitage List due to its architecture .
On April 22 , 1960  ,  it formally became Brazil 's national capital .
Viewed from above , the  प्रमुख  portion  of  the city  resembles  an airplane  or  a butterfly .
the  city is commonly referred to as  पूंजी  Federal  ,  or simply  bsb  .
Residents  of  Brasília are known as brasilienses  or  candangos ( the latter referring to those not born in the city but who migrated there after it was established ) .
In local usage , the word `` Brasília '' usually  refers  only to the First Administrative Region ( RA I ) within the Federal District ( Distrito Federal ) ,  जहाँ  the most important government buildings are located  .
Brasília has a  अद्वितीय  status in Brazil , as it is an administrative division rather than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil .
Nationally , the term is almost always used synonymously with the Federal  ज़िला  , which constitutes an indivisible Federative Unit , analogous to a state .
अनेक  `` satellite  शहरों   ''  exist which are also part of the Federal District .
Brasília International Airport is the main airport in Brasília , connecting the capital to all major Brazilian cities and many international destinations .
It  is  the third most important airport in Brazil , in terms of passengers  और   वायुयान  movements .
Personifications of Germany , France , Russia ,  austria-hungary  , and the United Kingdom  attempting  to keep the lid  on  the simmering cauldron of imperialist and nationalist tensions in the Balkans  to  prevent a general European war .
They were successful in 1912  और  1913 but  किया  not succeed in in 1914 .
The causes of World War I , which began in central Europe in  लेट  July 1914 and finished in 1918 , included many  कारकों  , such as the conflicts and hostility of the four  दशकों  leading up to the war .
Militarism  ,  alliances , imperialism , and nationalism played  प्रमुख  roles in the conflict as well .
The immediate origins of the war  ,  however , lay in the decisions taken by statesmen  और  generals during the Crisis of 1914 , casus belli for which was the assassination of  archduke  Franz Ferdinand ( the Archduke  of  Austria Hungary ) and his wife Sophie by Gavrilo Princip , an irredentist Serb .
the  crisis came after a long and difficult series of diplomatic clashes  between  the Great Powers ( Italy , France , Germany , the British Empire , the  austria-hungarian  Empire and Russia ) over European and colonial issues in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high .
In turn these diplomatic  clashes  can be traced to changes in the balance  of  power in Europe since 1867  .
The more  तात्कालिक  cause  लिये  the war  थी  tensions  over  territory in the Balkans .
Austria-Hungary competed with Serbia and Russia for territory and influence in the region  और  they pulled the  बाकी  of the Great Powers  into  the conflict through their various alliances and treaties .
Although the chain of events unleashed  by  the assassination triggered the war , the war  's  origins go deeper , involving national politics , cultures , economics , and a complex web of alliances and counterbalances that had developed between  the  various European powers since 1870 .
कुछ  of the most important long term  or  structural causes are :  the  growth of nationalism across Europe , unresolved territorial disputes , an intricate system of alliances , the perceived breakdown  of  the balance of power in Europe  ,   convoluted  and fragmented governance , the arms races of the previous decades , previous  सैन्य  planning , imperial and colonial rivalry for wealth , power and prestige , and  आर्थिक  and military rivalry in industry  और   व्यापार  – e.g. , the Pig War between Austria and Serbia .
Other causes that came into play during the diplomatic  संकट  that preceded the war included misperceptions of intent ( e.g. ,  the  German belief that the United Kingdom would remain neutral ) and  देरी   और   misunderstandings  in diplomatic communications  .
The various categories  of  explanation for World  युद्ध  I correspond to  अलग  historians ' overall methods .
Most historians and popular commentators include  कल्याणकारी  from more than one category of  स्पष्टीकरण  to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war .
The deepest distinction among these accounts is between stories that  देखिए  it as the inevitable and predictable outcome of certain factors , and those that describe it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake .
In attributing causes for  the  war , historians and academics had to deal with  an  unprecedented flood of memoirs and official documents  ,  released as each country involved tried to  avoid  blame for starting the war .
Early releases of  सूचना  by governments , particularly those released for use by the `` Commission on the  जिम्मेदारी  of the  लेखक  of the War ''  यहूद  shown to be incomplete and biased  .
In  जोड  some documents ,  विशेषकर   राजनयिक   केबल  between Russia and France , were found to  have  been doctored .
Even in  बाद   दशकों   however  , when much more information had been released , historians from the same culture have been shown to come to differing  conclusions   on  the causes of the war .
जॉनसन  's new chart of national emblems , published c. 1868 .
The large  ध्वज  shown in the corners  हैं  the 37-star flag of the United States ( flown  1867-1877  ) , the  royal  Standard of the United Kingdom , the Russian Imperial Standard  ,  and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle  .
विभिन्न  other  ध्वज  flown by ships are  दिखाया   .
The Flag of Cuba is  labelled  `` Cuban ( so called ) ``  .
The Chinese dragon on the  ध्वज  of China  थी  drawn mistakenly as a  पश्चिमी  dragon .
A national flag is a flag that symbolizes a country .
The flag is flown  by  the government , but usually can  भी  be flown by citizens of the country  .
Both  पब्लिक  and  निजी  buildings such as schools and courthouses may fly the national flag .
In some countries , the national flags are only flown from non-military buildings on  निश्चित  flag days .
There are three distinct types of  नेशनल  flag for use on land , and three for use at sea , though many countries use identical designs for several ( and sometimes all  )  of these types  of  flag .
The American Civil  युद्ध  ( ACW ) ,  भी  known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming  )  , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the  ``  North  ''  )  और  several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States  of  America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery , especially the extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign  शक्तियां  did not intervene .
After four years of bloody  कॉम्बैट  that  बाएँ  over 600,000 soldiers dead  और  destroyed much  of  the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished  ,  and the difficult Reconstruction process of  restoring  national unity and guaranteeing rights to  the   freed   स्लेव  began .
in  the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by  अब्राहम  Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into  संयुक्त  States  '  territories .
Lincoln won , but  पहले  his inauguration on March  4  , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
outgoing   लोकतांत्रिक  President James  बुकानन  and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would  नहीं  initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by  the  Confederacy .
A Peace Conference  विफल  to find a compromise , and both sides prepared for war .
The  confederates  assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
lincoln  called  लिये  each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four more  स्लेव  states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border  राज्य  and established  a  naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn  1862  Confederate campaign into Maryland  (  a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam  ,  dissuading British intervention .
lincoln  issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा  , which made ending  गुलामी  a war goal  .
To the west , by  गर्मियाँ  1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy  ,  then  much  of  उनके  western armies , and the Union  at  Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg  .
पश्चिमी  successes led  to  Ulysses S.  ग्रान्ट  command of all Union armies in 1864  .
In  the  Western Theater , William T.  शरमन  drove east to capture Atlanta and marched  to  the sea  ,  destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the  overland  Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending  confederate  army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on  अप्रैल  9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of the earliest  सच्चा  industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced weapons  यहूद  employed extensively .
The  mobilization  of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food  आपूर्तियाँ  all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war  in  American history ,  resulting  in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates  the  death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years  बूढ़ा  ,  और  30 percent  of  all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Norrie disease is a genetic disorder that primarily affects the eye and almost always  लीड  to blindness .
In addition to the congenital ocular  लक्षण  , some patients suffer from a  प्रगतिशील  hearing loss starting mostly in their 2nd decade  of  life , while another  portion   may  be mentally challenged .
Patients with  norrie  disease may develop cataracts , leukocoria ( a  कंडीशन  where  the  pupils  appear  white when  लाइट  is shone on  उन्हें  ) , along with other developmental issues in the eye , such as shrinking of the globe and the wasting  दूर  of the iris .
Around  30–50  % of them will also have developmental delay/ mental retardation , psychotic-like features , incoordination of movements or behavioral abnormalities .
Most patients are born with normal hearing ; however , the onset of hearing loss is very common in early adolescence .
परिचय   15  %  of  the patients are estimated to develop all the features  of  the disease .
The disease affects almost only male infants  at  birth or soon after birth , because the  बीमारी   is  inherited X-linked recessive .
Only in very rare cases , females have been  diagnosed  with Norrie disease as well .
The exact incidence number is unknown  ;  only a  few  hundred cases have been  reported  so far .
It is a very rare disorder that is not associated with any specific ethnic or racial groups .
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object entered into  voluntarily  by two or more parties ,  प्रत्येक  of whom intends  to  create one or more legal obligations between them .
The elements of a contract are ``  प्रस्ताव  '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who exchange `` consideration ''  to  create  ``  mutuality of obligation . ''
Proof of some or  सब  of these elements may be done in writing , though contracts  may  be made entirely orally or by conduct .
The remedy for breach of contract can be  ``  damages '' in the form  of  compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction .
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the  ``  benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages , which are greater than mere  रिलायंस  damages ,  as  in promissory estoppel .
The parties may be natural  व्यक्तियों   or  juristic persons  .
A contract is  a  legally enforceable promise or undertaking that something will or will  नहीं  occur .
The word promise can be used  as  a legal synonym for contract  ,  although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract , as when it is an agreement without  विचार  .
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another , including differences in  आम  law compared to civil  विधि  , the impact of received law , particularly from England in common law countries  ,  and of  विधि  codified in regional legislation .
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example , there are  40   प्रासंगिक  acts which impact  on  the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / national ) level , and an additional 26 acts at  the  level of  the  state  of   nsw  .
In addition there  हैं  6  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  instruments or conventions  जिससे  are applicable for international dealings ,  ऐसे  as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods .
ASP.NET is a server-side Web application framework designed for Web  विकास  to produce dynamic Web pages .
It  थी  developed by Microsoft to allow programmers to build dynamic web sites , web applications and web services .
It was first released in  जनवरी  2002 with version 1.0 of the .NET Framework , and  is  the  successor  to Microsoft 's Active Server Pages ( ASP )  प्रौद्योगिकी  .
ASP.NET is built  on  the Common Language Runtime (  clr  ) , allowing programmers to write ASP.NET code  using  any supported .NET language .
The ASP.NET SOAP  एक्सटेंशन   फ्रेमवर्क  allows ASP.NET components to process SOAP messages .
lysergic  acid diethylamide  ,  abbreviated LSD or LSD-25 , also known as lysergide ( INN  )  and  colloquially  as acid , is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the ergoline family , well  ज्ञात  for its psychological effects which can include altered thinking processes , closed  और  open eye visuals , synesthesia , an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences , as well as for its key role  in  1960s counterculture .
it  is used mainly as an entheogen , recreational  ड्रग  , and  as  an agent in psychedelic therapy .
LSD is non-addictive , is not known  to  cause brain damage , and has  अत्यधिक  low toxicity  सापेक्ष  to dose .
However , adverse psychiatric reactions such  as  anxiety , paranoia , and delusions are  संभावित  .
LSD was first synthesized  by  Albert Hofmann in 1938 from ergotamine , a chemical derived by Arthur Stoll from  ergot  , a grain fungus that typically grows on rye .
The short form `` LSD '' comes from its early  कोड   नाम  LSD-25 , which is an abbreviation for the German `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed  by  a sequential number .
LSD is sensitive to oxygen , ultraviolet light , and chlorine , especially in solution , though its potency may last  लिये  years if it  is  stored away from light and moisture at low temperature .
In pure form it is a colorless , odorless , tasteless solid .
LSD  is  typically delivered orally , usually on a substrate  ऐसे  as absorbent  blotter  paper , a sugar cube , or gelatin .
In its liquid  रूप  , it can also be administered  by  intramuscular or intravenous injection  .
LSD is very potent , with 20–30 μg ( micrograms )  होने  the threshold dose .
New  प्रयोग  with LSD started in 2009 for the first time in 40  सालो  .
Introduced by Sandoz Laboratories ,  साथ  trade-name Delysid  ,  as a drug with various psychiatric uses in 1947 , LSD quickly became a therapeutic agent that appeared to show  ग्रेट  promise  .
In the 1950s , officials at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA )  विचार  the drug  might  be applicable to mind control and  रासायनिक  warfare  ;  the agency 's  mkultra  research program  propagated  the drug among young servicemen and students .
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by youth culture in the Western world during the 1960s led to a political firestorm that resulted in its prohibition  .
Currently  ,  a number of organizations—including the Beckley Foundation ,  मानचित्र  , Heffter Research Institute and the Albert  hofmann  Foundation—exist to fund , encourage and coordinate research  into  the medicinal and spiritual uses of LSD and related psychedelics .
The United States Navy 's Sea , Air , Land Teams , commonly known as the Navy SEALs , are the U.S. Navy 's principal special operations force and a part of the  नवल  Special Warfare Command  और  United States Special Operations Command .
`` SEAL ''  is  always capitalized  in  reference to members of the Naval Special Warfare community .
The acronym is  निकला  from their capacity  to  operate at sea , in  the   एयर  , and on  जमीन  .
SEALs are male members of the United States  नेवी  .
An exchange program with the Coast  गार्ड   ,  which graduated three Coast Guardsmen as SEALs , was suspended in 2011 .
the  CIA 's highly  गुपचुप  Special Activities  प्रभाग  ( SAD ) and more specifically its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) recruits operators from the SEAL Teams .
Joint Navy SEALs and CIA operations  go  back to the famed MACV-SOG during the Vietnam War .
This cooperation still exists today and is seen in the wars in  इराकी  and Afghanistan ,  और  in the  ढूंढना  and killing of Osama bin Laden in  पाकिस्तानी  .
World population estimates  इससे  1800 to 2100 , based on UN  2010   projections  ( red  ,  orange , green ) and  us  Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ) .
Actual recorded  जनसांख्यिकी  figures are in  ब्लू  .
According  to  the highest estimate , the  संसार  population may rise  to  16 billion by  2100  ; according to the lowest estimate , it may decline to 6 billion .
the  world population is the total  क्रमांक  of living humans  on  Earth .
As  of  today  ,   it  is estimated to number billion by the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ) .
The USCB estimates that the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12 , 2012 .
According to a  पृथक  estimate  by  the United Nations Population Fund , it reached  इस  milestone on October 31 , 2011 .
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine and the Black Death in  1350  , when it stood at around  370  million .
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8  %  per year – were  देखी   briefly  during the 1950s , and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth rate peaked at  2.2  % in 1963 , and had declined to 1.1  %  by 2011 .
कुल  annual births were highest in the  लेट  1980s at about 138 million  ,  and are  अभी  expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level  of  134  लाख  , while deaths  क्रमांक  56 million per year , and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040  .
Current projections show a  जारी  increase in population in the  निकट  future  (  but a steady decline in the population growth rate ) , with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term  estimates  predict further  विकास  , stagnation , or even overall decline  in   the   वैश्विक  population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further  संसार  population growth , citing  the  growing pressures  on  the environment , global food supplies , and energy  संसाधन   .
Memphis is a city in the southwestern corner of the U.S. state of Tennessee , and  the  county  सीट  of Shelby County .
The city is located on the 4th Chickasaw Bluff , south of the confluence of the Wolf and Mississippi rivers .
Memphis had a  जनसांख्यिकी  of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest city in the state of Tennessee , the largest city on the Mississippi River , the third largest in the Southeastern United States  ,  and the 20th largest in the  संयुक्त  States .
The greater Memphis metropolitan area , including adjacent counties in Mississippi and Arkansas , had a 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  of 1,316,100  .
This makes Memphis  the  second  largest  metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  in Tennessee , surpassed only by metropolitan Nashville , which has  overtaken   मेम्फिस  in recent years .
Memphis is the  youngest  of Tennessee 's major cities .
A resident of Memphis  is  referred to as a Memphian  ,  and the Memphis region is known , particularly to media outlets , as  ``  Memphis & The Mid-South `` .
The Cattenom Nuclear Power Plant in France .
France produces around three quarters of its electricity by nuclear power .
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant in Germany .
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30 , 2011 ,  कि  Germany’s 17 nuclear  शक्ति  stations  होगा   be  shut down  by  2022 , in a policy  reversal  following Japan 's  फुकुशिमा  Daiichi nuclear disaster .
Currently , 68 reactors are  अंतर्गत  construction in 15 countries .
Nuclear power stations operate in thirty countries .
In 2010 , before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster , it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors  यहूद   अपेक्षित  to become operational per year , although according to the World Nuclear Association , of the 17 civilian reactors  नियोजित   to  become operational between 2007 and 2009 , only five actually came on stream .
As of  जून  2011  ,  Germany and Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power .
As of June 2011 , countries such as Australia  ,  Austria , Denmark , Greece ,  आयरलैंड  , Italy , Latvia , Liechtenstein ,  ध्वज  , Malaysia  ,  Malta  ,  New Zealand  ,  Norway and  पुर्तगाल  remain opposed to nuclear power .
Skeletal muscles  होमो  sapiens
This is a table of muscles of the human anatomy .
There are  लगभग  642 skeletal muscles within the typical human , and almost every muscle constitutes one  भाग  of a pair  of  identical bilateral muscles ,  मिला  on both sides , resulting in approximately 320  pairs  of muscles , as presented in this article .
nevertheless  , the exact number is difficult to  define  because different sources  समूह  muscles differently , e.g  .  regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or  as  several  मांसपेशियां   .
Examples range from 640 to 850  .
the  muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups which include muscles relating  to  the head and neck , muscles of the torso or  ट्रंक  , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action refers to the action  of  each muscle from the standard anatomical position .
In other positions , other actions may be performed .
A reenactment  of  a battle at Fort  फोस्टर  , 1837 ( at  hillsborough  River State Park )
The Seminole Wars , also known as the Florida Wars , were three conflicts in Florida between the Seminole — the collective name given to the amalgamation of various groups  of  native Americans and Black people who settled in  फ्लोरिडा  in the early 18th century — and the United States Army  .
The  पहला  Seminole War  थी  from 1814 to  1819  ( although sources differ ) , the Second Seminole War from 1835 to 1842 , and  the  Third Seminole War from 1855 to 1858 .
The first conflict with the Seminoles arose out of tensions  relating  to  सामान्य  Andrew Jackson 's attack  और  destruction of Negro Fort in Florida in 1816 .
Jackson also attacked the Spanish at Pensacola .
Ultimately , the Spanish Crown ceded the colony to United States rule .
orono  is a  कस्बा  in Penobscot County , Maine , United  राज्य  .
it  was  पहला  settled in 1774 and named in honor of Chief Joseph Orono  of  the Penobscot Nation .
It is home to  the  University of Maine .
The population was 10,362 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
View of the  पिरामिड
Luxor Las Vegas is a hotel and  कसीनो  on the Las Vegas Strip  in  Paradise , Nevada  .
The 30-story hotel , owned and operated by MGM Resorts International , has a casino with over 2,000 slot machines and 87 table games .
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation , it has a new , highly modernized , and contemporary design and contains a total of 4,400 rooms , including 442 suites , lining the interior walls of a pyramid style tower and within twin  22-story  ziggurat towers that were built as later additions .
the  hotel is named after the city of  लक्सर  ( ancient  thebes   )  in  मिश्र  .
Luxor is the second largest  होटल  in Las Vegas ( the  largest  being the MGM Grand )  और  the eighth largest in the world  .
As of 2010 , the Luxor has a 4 Key rating from the Green Key Eco-Rating Program , which evaluates `` sustainable '' hotel operations .
A pilot experiment , also  पुकारा  a pilot study , is a small scale preliminary study conducted in order to evaluate feasibility , time , cost , adverse events , and effect size ( statistical variability ) in an attempt to predict an appropriate sample size and improve upon the study design prior  to  performance of a full-scale research project .
Pilot studies  ,  therefore , may not be appropriate for case studies .
The Los Angeles Fire  विभाग  ( LAFD  )  is the agency that provides fire  सुरक्षा  and emergency medical services for the city of Los Angeles .
It may be unofficially referred to  as  the  लॉस  Angeles City Fire Department to distinguish it from the Los Angeles County Fire Department .
The acre is a unit of  क्षेत्रफल  used in the imperial and U.S. customary systems .
An acre is  परिचय  40 % of a hectare – slightly smaller  than  an American football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used , although a few notable exceptions include the United States ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , Burma and the United Kingdom ( as  of  2010  ,  the acre is  no  longer officially used in the United Kingdom , though is still used in real estate descriptions ) .
It is still used , to some extent  ,  in Canada .
The international symbol of the acre is ac , and is defined as 1/640  of  a square mile  .
The most commonly used  एकड़  today is the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  acre .
In the United States both the international acre and the slightly different US survey acre are in use .
The most common use of the acre is  to  measure tracts of land .
One international acre is defined as 4046.8564224 square  मीटर  .
During the Middle Ages , an acre was the amount of land that could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen .
Pawnee initially refers to a Native American people and  इसके  language:
Pawnee  लोगों
Pawnee language
Pawnee is also the  नाम  of several places in the United States:
Pawnee , Illinois
Pawnee , Kansas
Pawnee City , Nebraska
Pawnee , Oklahoma
Pawnee , Texas
Pawnee National Grassland , Colorado
Pawnee Township ( disambiguation )
Pawnee County ( disambiguation )
Pawnee may also refer to:
Piper PA-25  pawnee  ,  agricultural  aircraft
Hiller VZ-1 Pawnee , experimental aircraft
Pawnee , Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional setting of the NBC television comedy Parks and Recreation .
Broca 's and Wernicke 's Areas
Language processing refers to the way human  beings  use words to communicate ideas and feelings ,  और  how such communications are processed and understood .
Thus it is how the brain  creates  and understands language .
Most recent  theories  consider that this process is carried out entirely by and inside the brain .
This is considered one of the most characteristic abilities of the human species - perhaps the most characteristic .
However very little is known about it and there is huge  पैमाना  for research on it .
Most of the knowledge acquired to  तिथि  on  the  subject has  आइये  from patients who have suffered some type of significant head injury , whether external ( wounds , bullets ) or  आतंरिक  ( strokes , tumors ,  अपक्षयी  diseases ) .
Studies have shown that most of the language processing functions are carried out in the cerebral cortex  .
The essential function of the cortical language areas is symbolic representation .
Even though language  exists  in different forms , all of them are based on symbolic representation .
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4  is  a mid-engined grand touring car , designed and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim , France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S .
The Super Sport  संस्करण  of the Veyron is  the  fastest street-legal production car in the world , with a top speed of .
The original  संस्करण   रै  a top speed of .
It was named Car of  the   दशक  ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC television programme Top Gear .
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best Car Driven All Year award in 2005 .
on  6  अप्रैल  2013 , Bugatti set  the  record for the fastest roadster in the world with the Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse , reaching on average a top speed of .
The Veyron 's chief designer was  hartmut  Warkuss , and the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen , with much of the  अभियान्त्रिकी  work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber .
A number of special variants  have  been produced .
in   दिसम्बर  2010 , Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the  क्षमता  to customize exterior and interiors colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque  's  official  जालस्थल  .
DVD  is   an  optical disc storage format ,  invented  and  विकसित   by  Philips , Sony , Toshiba , and Panasonic in 1995  .
DVDs offer higher storage capacity than compact discs while having the same  आयाम  .
Pre-recorded DVDs are  mass-produced  using molding machines that physically stamp data onto the DVD .
Such discs are known as DVD- ROM , because  आंकड़ा  can only be read and not written nor erased .
Blank  recordable  DVD  discs  ( DVD-R and DVD+R ) can be recorded once using  a  DVD recorder and then function as a DVD-ROM . Rewritable DVDs ( DVD-RW , DVD+RW , and DVD-RAM ) can be recorded and erased multiple times .
DVDs are used in DVD-Video consumer digital video format and in DVD-Audio consumer digital audio format , as well as for authoring AVCHD discs .
DVDs containing other  प्रकार  of information may  be  referred to as DVD data discs .
What Chilli  wants  is an American reality  श्रेणी  on  vh1  starring Chilli  ,  one-third of the Grammy  पुरस्कार  -winning R & B  तिकड़ी  TLC .
The show chronicles Chilli 's quest to find love with the help of Tionna T. Smalls , an  लेखक  and  संबंध  coach .
The series  premiered  on April 11 , 2010 , and  रै  since been renewed  लिये  a  दूसरी  season .
The second season premiered on Sunday , January  2  , 2011 .
Peter Gene  hernandez  ( born October 8  ,  1985 ) , known by his stage name Bruno Mars , is an American singer-songwriter and record producer .
Raised in  होनोलूलू  , Hawaii ,  by  a  परिवार  of  संगीतकारों  , Mars began making music  at  a  यंग  age and performed in various musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood .
He graduated from high school and then moved to Los Angeles ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , to  pursue   a  musical career .
Mars produced songs for other artists ,  joining  production team The  smeezingtons  .
Mars had an unsuccessful stint with  motown  Records , but then signed with Atlantic in  2009  .
He became recognized as a  सोलो  artist after lending his vocals and co-writing the hooks for the songs `` Nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B , and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy .
He also co-wrote the hits `` Right Round `` by Flo Rida featuring Ke $ ha , and `` Wavin  '  Flag `` by K'naan .
In October 2010 , he released  उसके  debut  एल्बम  , Doo-Wops & Hooligans .
Anchored by the worldwide  number-one  singles `` Just the Way You  हैं  ``  और  `` Grenade `` , the album peaked at number three on  the  Billboard 200 .
Mars  थी  nominated for seven Grammys at the 53rd Grammy Awards  ,  winning Best Male  पॉप  Vocal Performance for `` Just the Way You Are '' .
उसके  second studio album , Unorthodox Jukebox , was released on  दिसम्बर  11  ,  2012 .
Mars ' music is noted for displaying a wide variety of styles  और  influences , and  contains  elements of  अनेक  musical genres .
He has worked with an assortment of artists from  विभिन्न  genres .
As a child ,  he  was highly influenced by artists such as Little Richard  ,  Elvis Presley and Michael Jackson and would often impersonate these artists from a young age .
Mars also  incorporates  reggae - and Motown  -inspired  sounds into his work .
Worldwide , Mars became the best-selling digital artist  in  2011 .
He had three singles in the top ten ,  सहित  first  प्लेस  with `` Just the Way You Are '' , which sold  12.5  million copies .
Mars won  बेहतरीन  International Male Solo Artist at the 2012 BRIT  पुरस्कार   .
Bruno Mars has sold 6 million albums and 40  लाख  singles worldwide as a singer .
Althought as a song-writer , producer and singer his total single download sales surpass  100  million worldwide .
Bust of Zeus , Otricoli ( Sala Rotonda , Museo Pio-Clementino , Vatican ) .
Greek mythology is the body of myths and teachings that belong to the ancient Greeks , concerning their gods and heroes , the nature of the world , and the origins and significance of  उनके  own cult and ritual practices  .
It was a part of the  धर्म  in ancient Greece and is part of  धर्म  in modern  यूनानियों  and around the world , known as Hellenismos .
Modern scholars refer to and study the myths in an attempt  to  throw light on the religious and political institutions of Ancient Greece and its civilization , and to gain understanding of the nature  of  myth-making itself .
Greek mythology  is  explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives , and implicitly in Greek representational arts , such as vase-paintings and votive gifts .
Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of the world ,  और   विवरण   the  lives and adventures of a wide variety  of  gods , goddesses , heroes , heroines , and  पौराणिक  creatures .
These accounts initially were disseminated in an oral-poetic tradition ; today the Greek myths are  ज्ञात  primarily from Greek literature .
The  oldest  known Greek literary sources ,  होमर  's epic poems Iliad  और  Odyssey , focus on events surrounding the Trojan War .
Two  कविताएं  by Homer 's near  समकालीन  Hesiod , the Theogony and the Works and Days , contain accounts of the genesis of the  संसार  , the succession of divine rulers , the succession of  इंसान  ages , the origin of human woes , and the origin of sacrificial practices .
Myths are  भी  preserved in the Homeric Hymns , in fragments  of   एपिक  poems of the Epic  साईकिल   ,  in lyric poems , in the works of the tragedians of the fifth century BC  ,  in writings of scholars and  कवियों  of the Hellenistic Age , and in texts from the time of  the  Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias .
Archaeological findings provide a  प्रिंसिपल  source of detail about Greek mythology , with gods and  नायक  featured prominently in the decoration of many artifacts  .
Geometric designs on pottery of  the  eighth century BC depict scenes from the Trojan cycle as well as the adventures  of  Heracles .
In the succeeding Archaic , Classical  ,  and Hellenistic  अवधि  , Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear , supplementing the existing literary evidence  .
Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the culture , arts , and literature of Western civilization and remains part  of  Western heritage and language .
Poets and artists from  प्राचीन  times to  the  present have derived inspiration  इससे  Greek mythology and have discovered contemporary  significance  and relevance in  the  themes .
Mouth & MacNeal in 1971
Mouth & MacNeal was a pop duo from the Netherlands .
वे  are best known for  उनके  million selling recording of `` How Do You Do `` .
The Boise State Broncos football program represents Boise  राज्य  University in college  फ़ुटबॉल  and compete in  the  Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS  )  of Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference .
They are currently led by head coach Chris Petersen and play their home games at Bronco Stadium .
The franc ( sign : Fr . or SFr . ; German : Franken , French  और  Romansh : franc , Italian : franco ;  कोड  : CHF ) is the currency  और  legal tender of Switzerland and Liechtenstein  ;  it is also legal tender in the Italian exclave Campione d'Italia .
Although not formally legal tender in the German exclave Büsingen ( the sole legal currency is the euro  )  ,  it  is in wide daily use  वहीँ   .
The Swiss National Bank issues banknotes and the federal mint Swissmint issues coins .
the  Swiss  फ़्रैंक  is the only version of the franc still issued in Europe .
The smaller denomination , a  hundredth  of a franc , is  a  Rappen ( Rp . ) in German , centime ( c. ) in French , centesimo ( ct. )  in  Italian , and rap ( rp . ) in Romansh  .
The ISO code of the currency used by banks and financial institutions  is  CHF , although `` Fr  .  '' is used by most businesses and  विज्ञापनदाता  ; some use SFr . ; the Latinate  ``  CH '' stands for Confoederatio Helvetica .
Given the different languages used  in  Switzerland  ,   लैटिन  is used for language-neutral inscriptions on  the  coins .
Sir  चार्ल्स  Spencer `` Charlie '' Chaplin  ,  ( 16 April 188925 December 1977 ) was a British comic actor and filmmaker who rose to  कीर्ति  in the silent era .
Chaplin became a worldwide icon through his screen persona  ``  the Tramp `` and is considered one of the most important figures of the film industry .
His career  spanned  more than  75  years , from a child in the Victorian era to close to his death at  the  age of 88 , and encompassed both adulation and  विवाद  .
Raised in London , Chaplin 's childhood was defined by poverty and hardship .
He was sent  to   a  workhouse twice before the age of  नौ  ; his  पिता  was absent , and his mother was committed to  a  mental asylum .
Chaplin began performing from a young age , touring music halls and later  working  as a stage actor and comedian .
At 19 he  थी  signed to the prestigious Fred Karno company , which took him  to  America .
चैपलिन   थी  scouted by the film industry , and  बना   उसके   पहला  appearances in 1914 with Keystone Studios .
He  जल्द  developed the Tramp persona and formed a large fan  आधार  .
Chaplin  निर्देशित  his films from an early stage , and continued  to  hone his craft as he moved to  the  Essanay , Mutual , and First National corporations .
by   1918   ,  he was one of the most famous men in the world .
In 1919 , Chaplin co-founded the distribution company United Artists , giving him complete control over his films .
His first feature-length picture was The  बच्चा  ( 1921  )  , followed by A Woman of  पेरिस  ( 1923 ) , The Gold  फटाफट  ( 1925 ) , and The Circus (  1928  ) .
He refused to move  to  sound films in the 1930s , instead producing City Lights (  1931  )  और  Modern  टाइम्स  ( 1936  )  without dialogue .
चैपलिन  became increasingly political and his next film , The Great Dictator  (  1940 ) , satirised Adolf Hitler .
The 1940s was a decade marked with controversy  लिये  Chaplin , and his popularity declined rapidly .
He  थी  accused of communist sympathies , while his involvement  in  a paternity suit and marriages to much younger women were considered scandalous .
An FBI investigation was opened on Chaplin , and he was eventually forced to leave the United States and settle in Switzerland .
He abandoned the Tramp for his later films , which include Monsieur Verdoux  (  1947 ) , Limelight ( 1952 ) , A King in New York (  1957  ) , and A Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ) .
Chaplin wrote , directed , produced  ,  edited , scored , and starred in most of his films .
He was a perfectionist ,  और  his financial independence meant he often spent years on the development and production of a picture .
His films are characterised by slapstick combined with pathos , and often feature the Tramp struggling  विरूद्ध   adversity   .
Many  contain  social and political themes , as well as autobiographical elements .
in  1972  ,  as part of a renewed appreciation for his work , Chaplin received an Honorary Academy Award for `` the incalculable effect he has  था  in making motion pictures the art form  of  this century '' .
he   continues   to  be held in high regard , with The Gold Rush , City Lights , Modern Times , and The Great  तानाशाह  often ranked among the greatest films of all time .
Planned Parenthood Federation of  अमेरिका   (  PPFA )  ,  commonly shortened to Planned Parenthood , is the U.S. affiliate of  the  International Planned Parenthood Federation  (  IPPF ) and one of its larger members .
PPFA is a non-profit organization providing  reproductive  health and maternal and child health services .
the  Planned Parenthood Action Fund , Inc. ( PPAF ) is a  सम्बन्धित  organization which lobbies for pro-choice  विधान  , comprehensive sex education , and access to  सस्ती   स्वास्थ्य   परवाह  in the  संयुक्त  States .
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S. provider of reproductive health services , including cancer screening , HIV screening and  counseling  , contraception , and abortion .
Contraception accounts for 35 % of PPFA 's total  सेवाएं  and abortions account for 3 % ;  ppfa  conducts roughly 300,000 abortions  प्रत्येक  year , among 3 million people served .
The  संगठन   रै  its roots  in  Brooklyn , New York , where Margaret Sanger  खोली   the  country 's first birth-control clinic .
Sanger  संस्थापित  the American  जनम  Control League in 1921 ,  जिससे  in 1942 became part  of   the  Planned Parenthood Federation of America .
Since then , Planned Parenthood has grown to have over 820 clinic locations  in  the U.S. ,  साथ  a total budget of US $ 1 billion .
PPFA provides an array of services to over  तीन  million people in the United States  ,  and supports services for over one million clients outside the United States .
Mens rea is Latin for `` guilty mind  ''  .
In criminal law ,  it  is viewed as one of the necessary elements of some crimes .
The  मानक  common  विधि  test of criminal  देयता  is usually expressed in the Latin phrase , actus non facit reum nisi mens  बैठना   rea   ,  which means `` the act is not culpable unless the mind is guilty '' .
Thus , in jurisdictions with due process , there must be an  actus  reus , or `` guilty act , '' accompanied by  कुछ  level of mens rea to constitute the  अपराधों  with which the defendant is charged ( see the technical requirement of concurrence ) .
As a  सामान्य  rule , criminal  देयता  does not attach to a person who acted with the absence of mental fault .
The exception is strict liability crimes .
In civil law , it is usually not necessary to prove a subjective mental element to establish liability for breach of contract or tort , for example .
However , if a tort is intentionally committed  or  a contract is  intentionally  breached , such intent may increase  the  scope of liability as well as the measure of damages  देय  to the plaintiff .
Therefore , mens rea refers to  the  mental element of the offence that accompanies the actus reus .
In some jurisdictions , the terms mens rea and actus reus have  महरूम  replaced by alternative terminology .
In Australia , for example , the elements of  the  federal offences are now designated as `` fault elements '' or `` mental elements '' (  पुरुषों   rea  ) and `` physical elements '' or `` external  तत्व  '' ( actus reus ) .
This terminology was adopted to replace the obscurity of the Latin terms with simple  और  accurate phrasing .
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27 ,  1822  – July 23 , 1885 ) was the 18th President  of  the United States  (  1869–1877 ) following  उसके  highly successful role as a war general in the second half  of  the Civil War .
Under Grant , the Union Army defeated the Confederate military ; having effectively ended the war and secession with the surrender of Robert E. Lee 's army at Appomattox .
As president he led the Radical Republicans in their effort to eliminate all  vestiges  of Confederate nationalism and slavery  .
Upset over uncontrolled violence in the South and  having  desired to protect African American citizenship , President Grant  effectively  destroyed the Ku Klux Klan in 1871  .
ग्रान्ट  was the first President to establish Civil Service reform having  निर्मित  a two-year federally  वित्तपोषित  Civil Service Commission in 1871 .
In terms of foreign policy , Grant revealed an `` unexpected capacity for deliberation and  परामर्श  '' that promoted  the  national interest .
His reputation was marred by his repeated defense  of  corrupt appointees , and  by  America 's first industrial age economic depression ( called the `` Panic of 1873 `` ) that dominated his second term .
Although his Republican  पार्टी  split in 1872 with reformers denouncing him , Grant was easily reelected .
by  1875 the conservative white Southern opposition regained control of every state in the South and as he left the White House in March 1877 his policies were being undone .
A career soldier , he graduated from the United  राज्य  Military Academy at  वेस्ट  Point and served in the Mexican–American War .
When the Civil War began in 1861 , Grant  प्रशिक्षित   संघ  volunteer regiments in Illinois  .
in   1862  , as a general he fought a series of battles and was promoted to major general after  forcing  the surrender of a large  confederate  army and gaining control of Kentucky  और   सबसे   of  Tennessee .
he   तब  led Union forces to victory after initial setbacks in the Battle of Shiloh , earning a  प्रतिष्ठा   as  an aggressive commander .
In July 1863 , after a long , complex campaign , Grant defeated five uncoordinated Confederate armies (  capturing  one of them )  और  seized Vicksburg .
This famous victory gave the  संघ  full control of  the   मिसिसिपी  River , split off  the  western Confederacy , and opened the way for more Union triumphs .
After another win at the Battle of Chattanooga in late 1863 ,  अध्यक्ष  Abraham Lincoln made  उसे  lieutenant general  और  commander of all  of  the Union Armies .
As  commanding  general of the army , Grant  confronted   रॉबर्ट  E. Lee in a series of very bloody  लड़ाइयों  in 1864 known as the Overland Campaign that ended  साथ  the bottling up  of  Lee at Petersburg , outside the  confederate  capital of Richmond  .
During the siege ,  ग्रान्ट  coordinated  a  series of devastating  अभियान  launched by William Tecumseh Sherman , Philip Sheridan , and George Thomas .
Finally breaking through Lee 's trenches , the Union Army captured Richmond in April 1865 .
Lee surrendered  उसके  depleted forces to Grant at Appomattox as the Confederacy collapsed .
Although pro-Confederate historians attacked Grant as a ruthless butcher who won by brute force , most historians  have  hailed  उसके  military genius .
Grant 's two consecutive terms as President  stabilized  the nation after the American Civil War and during the turbulent Reconstruction period that followed  .
As president  ,  he enforced Reconstruction by enforcing civil rights laws and fighting Ku Klux Klan violence .
ग्रान्ट  won passage of the Fifteenth Amendment ; giving constitutional protection for African-American voting rights .
He used the army to  निर्माण  the  रिपब्लिकन  Party in the South , based on black voters , Northern newcomers ( `` Carpetbaggers `` ) and native white supporters (  ``  Scalawags . '' )
as  a result , African Americans were represented in the U.S. Congress for the first time in American history in 1870 .
Reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace policy by having broken the deadlock on Indian appropriations in Congress , the creation of the  फलक  of Indian Commissioners to make reform recommendations , and  उसके  enlistment  of  Quaker Protestants who controlled mid western  भारतीय   एजेंसियों  , that effectively curbed Congressional patronage .
ग्रान्ट  remained determined in keeping Indians from being exterminated from white settler encroachment or by the U.S. military .
Grant 's reputation as president by 1875 was at an all-time  ऊँची  for his previous veto of  the  Inflation  विधेयक  , the  ड्योढ़ी  of the Resumption of Specie Act ,  और  Secretary  bristow  's  कामयाब  raids  कि  shut  bas  the Whiskey Ring .
Grant 's foreign  नीति  ,  led   by  Secretary of State Hamilton  मछली  ,  implemented  International Arbitration , settled the Alabama Claims with Britain  और  avoided war with Spain over the Virginius Affair .
A jukebox is a partially automated music-playing device , usually a coin-operated machine , that will play a patron 's selection from self-contained media .
The classic jukebox has buttons with letters and numbers on them that , when entered in  संयोजन   ,  are used to  खेल  a specific selection .
A drug test is a technical analysis of a biological specimen – for example urine , hair , blood , sweat , or oral  द्रव  / saliva – to determine the presence or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites  .
Major uses of drug testing are to detect the presence of performance enhancing steroids in sport or  लिये  drugs prohibited by laws , such as cannabis , cocaine and heroin .
A `` 10-panel urine screen '' consists of the following:
Amphetamines ( including Methamphetamine )
Barbiturates
Benzodiazepines
Cannabinoids ( THC )
Cocaine
Methadone
methaqualone
Opiates (  codeine  , Morphine  ,  Heroin , Oxycodone , Hydrocodone , etc . )
Phencyclidine ( PCP )
propoxyphene
Saturn V rocket , used for the American manned lunar landing missions
Space exploration is the  डिस्कवरी  and exploration of outer space by means of space technology .
Physical exploration of space  is  conducted both by human spaceflights and by robotic spacecraft  .
While the observation of objects in space , known as astronomy , predates reliable recorded history , it was the  विकास  of large and relatively efficient rockets during  the  early 20th century  कि   अनुमत  physical space exploration to  become  a reality .
Common rationales for exploring space include advancing scientific research , uniting different  राष्ट्र  , ensuring the future survival of humanity and developing military and strategic advantages against other countries  .
Various criticisms  of  space exploration are sometimes made .
Space exploration has often been used as  a  proxy competition for  geopolitical  rivalries such as the Cold War .
the  early era of space  खोजी  was driven by a  ``  Space Race `` between the Soviet Union and the United States , the launch of the first  man-made  object to orbit the  धरती  , the USSR 's Sputnik 1 , on 4 October 1957 , and the first Moon landing by the American Apollo 11  शिल्प   on  20 July 1969 are often taken  as  the boundaries for this initial  काल  .
The Soviet space program achieved many of  the  first milestones , including the first  जीना  being in orbit in 1957 , the first human spaceflight ( Yuri Gagarin aboard Vostok 1  )  in 1961 ,  the  first spacewalk ( by Aleksei Leonov ) on 18 March 1965 , the  पहला   स्वचालित  landing on another  celestial  body in 1966 , and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971 .
After  the  first 20 years of exploration , focus shifted from one-off flights to renewable hardware , such as the Space Shuttle program , and from competition to cooperation as with the International Space  स्टेशन  ( ISS )  .
With the substantial completion of the  iss  following STS-133 in March 2011 , plans for space  खोजी  by the  यूएसए  remain in flux .
Constellation , a Bush Administration program for a return to  the  Moon by 2020 was judged  inadequately  funded  और  unrealistic by an expert review panel reporting in 2009 .
The Obama Administration proposed a revision of Constellation in 2010 to focus  on  the development of the capability for crewed missions beyond low earth orbit ( LEO ) , envisioning extending the operation of the ISS beyond 2020 , transferring the development of launch vehicles for human crews  इससे  NASA to the private sector  ,  and developing technology to enable missions to beyond LEO  ,  such as  earth/moon  L1 , the Moon , Earth/Sun L2 ,  near-earth   क्षुद्रग्रह  , and Phobos or Mars orbit  .
As of March 2011 , the US Senate and  हाउस  of Representatives are still working towards a compromise NASA funding bill ,  जिससे  will probably terminate Constellation and fund development of a  भारी  lift  लॉन्च  vehicle ( HLLV ) .
in   the  2000s ,  the  People  's   गणतंत्र   of  China initiated a successful  मानवयुक्त  spaceflight program , while the European Union ,  जापानी  ,  और   इण्डिया  have also  नियोजित  future manned space missions .
चीन  , Russia , Japan , and India have advocated manned missions to the Moon during the 21st century  ,  while the European Union has advocated manned missions  to  both the  चंद्रमा  and Mars during the  21st  century .
From the 1990s onwards , private interests began promoting space tourism and then private space  खोजी  of the Moon (  देखिए  Google Lunar X Prize ) .
John Calvin Coolidge , Jr. ( July 4 , 1872January 5 , 1933 ) was the 30th  अध्यक्ष  of the United States ( 1923–1929 ) .
A Republican  वकील  from Vermont  ,  Coolidge worked his  रास्ता   up  the ladder of  मैसाचुसेट्स  state politics , eventually becoming governor of that state .
His conduct during the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust him into the national  स्पॉटलाइट   और  gave him a reputation as a man of decisive action  .
Soon after , he was elected as the 29th Vice President  in  1920 and succeeded to the Presidency upon the sudden  मौत  of Warren G. Harding in 1923 .
Elected in his own right in 1924 , he gained a reputation as a small-government conservative , and also as a man who said very little .
Coolidge restored public confidence in the  श्वेत  House after  the  scandals of his predecessor 's administration , and left office with considerable popularity .
As a  कूलिज  biographer put it , `` He embodied the spirit and hopes of the middle class , could interpret their longings and express their opinions .
That he  किया  represent the genius of  the  average is the  सबसे  convincing proof of his strength . ''
Some later criticized Coolidge as part  of  a general criticism of  laissez-faire  government .
His  प्रतिष्ठा   underwent  a renaissance during the Ronald  reagan  Administration , but the ultimate assessment of his presidency is still  विभाजित   between  those who approve  of  his reduction of the size of government programs and  those  who believe the federal government should be more involved in  regulating  and controlling the economy .
एस्प्रेसो   is  a concentrated beverage brewed by forcing a small amount of nearly  खौलते  water under pressure through finely ground coffee beans  .
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than  कॉफी  brewed by  अन्य   विधि  , a higher concentration of suspended and dissolved solids , and crema ( meaning cream , but being a reference to the foam with a creamy texture that  फ़ॉर्म  as a result of the  दबाव  ) .
As  a  result of the pressurized brewing process the flavors and chemicals in a typical cup of  एस्प्रेसो  are very concentrated .
Espresso is the  आधार  for other drinks , such as a latte  ,  cappuccino , macchiato , mocha , or americano .
Espresso has more caffeine per unit volume than most beverages ,  लकिन  the usual  सेवारत  size is smaller—a typical 60 mL ( 2 US fluid ounce ) of espresso  रै  80 to 150 mg of caffeine , little  कम  than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) cup of drip-brewed coffee .
Brian Keith Kelly ( born October 25 , 1961 )  is  an American football  कोच  and former player .
He is currently the head  फ़ुटबॉल  coach for the Notre Dame Fighting Irish , a position he  रै  held since December 2009 .
Kelly was previously head coach at Grand Valley State University ( 1991–2003 ) , Central Michigan University ( 2004–2006 ) , and University of  सिनसिनाटी  (  2006–2009   )  .
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object entered  into  voluntarily by two or more parties , each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them .
The elements  of  a contract are `` offer ''  और  `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who exchange `` consideration '' to create ``  mutuality  of obligation . ''
Proof  of  some or all of these elements may  be  done in writing  ,  though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct .
The remedy for breach of contract  can  be `` damages  ''  in  the   रूप  of compensation  of   धन  or specific performance  enforced  through an injunction .
Both of these remedies award the party at loss  the  `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages , which are greater than mere reliance damages , as in promissory estoppel .
The parties  may  be natural  व्यक्तियों  or juristic persons  .
A  अनुबंध  is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking that something  होगा  or will not occur .
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract ,  हालांकि  care is required as a promise  may   नहीं  have the full standing of a contract , as when it is an  अनुबंध  without consideration .
Contract law varies  greatly  from one jurisdiction to another , including differences  in  common law compared to civil law , the impact of  प्राप्त  law  ,  particularly from England in common law countries , and  of  law codified in regional legislation  .
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example , there are 40 relevant acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / national ) level , and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state  of  NSW .
In addition there  हैं  6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for international  dealings  , such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods .
Sidney Patrick Crosby ,  ons  ( born August 7 , 1987 ) is a  कनाडाई  professional ice  हॉकी  player who is captain of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National  हॉकी  League ( NHL  )  .
crosby   थी  drafted first overall by the Penguins out of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League  (  QMJHL ) .
During his two-year  प्रमुख  junior career with the Rimouski Océanic , he earned back-to-back CHL Player of the  साल  awards and led his club to the 2005  मेमोरियल  Cup final .
Nicknamed `` The Next One `` , he was one of the most highly regarded draft picks in hockey history , leading many to refer to  the  2005 Draft Lottery as the `` Sidney Crosby Sweepstakes '' .
In his  पहला  NHL season , Crosby finished sixth in league scoring with 102 points (  39  goals , 63 assists ) and was a runner-up for the  calder  Memorial Trophy ( won by Alexander Ovechkin ) .
By his second season , he led the NHL with 120  अंक  ( 36 goals , 84 assists ) to  कैप्चर  the  आर्ट  Ross Trophy , becoming the youngest player and the only teenager to win  a  scoring title in any major  उत्तर  American sports league .
That same season , Crosby also  जीती  the Hart Memorial  ट्रॉफी  as the Professional Hockey Writers  संघ  's choice for most valuable player and the  लेस्टर  B. Pearson  पुरस्कार  as  the  NHL Players Association 's choice for most outstanding player , becoming the seventh player in NHL history to earn all three awards in one year .
crosby   प्रारंभ   the   2007–08  season with the team 's captaincy and subsequently led them to  the  2008 Stanley Cup Finals ,  जहाँ  they were defeated by the Detroit Red Wings in six games .
the  Penguins returned to the Finals  विरूद्ध  Detroit the  following  year and won in seven games ; Crosby became the youngest captain in NHL  इतिहास  to  जीत   the   स्टेनली  Cup .
In the 2009–10 season , Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals , tying him with Steven Stamkos for the Rocket Richard  ट्रॉफी   as  the league-leader ; with 58 assists  ,  he totaled 109 points , second in the NHL .
During the  off-season  , Crosby received  the  Mark Messier Leadership Award .
In 2010–11 , Crosby sustained a concussion as a result  of  hits to  the  head in back-to-back games .
The injury left him sidelined for ten and a half months .
However , after playing eight games in the  2011–12  season , Crosby 's concussion-like symptoms returned in December 2011 , and he did not return  जबतक  mid-March 2012 .
Internationally , Crosby has  represented   कनाडा   in  numerous tournaments for the country 's junior and men 's teams .
After competing in the 2003 U-18 Junior World  कप  , he represented Canada in  back-to-back   iihf  World U20 Championships , winning silver in 2004 and gold in 2005 .
at  the 2006 IIHF World Championship , he led the tournament in scoring , while also earning Top Forward and All-Star Team honours .
Four years later , Crosby was named to  टोली  Canada for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver  .
playing  the United States in the gold medal game  ,  he scored the game-winning goal in overtime .
A United States cent , also known as a penny .
`` My two cents '' ( 2¢ ) and its longer version ``  put  my two cents in '' is an  संयुक्त  States ( US ) idiomatic expression , taken from the original English idiom expression : to  put  in ``  my  two pennies worth '' or `` my  tuppence  worth .  ''
It is used to preface the tentative stating of one’s opinion  .
By deprecating  the  opinion to follow – suggesting its value is only two cents , a very  छोटी  amount – the user of the phrase hopes to lessen the impact of a  संभवतः   बयान   ,  showing politeness and humility .
However , it is also sometimes used with irony when expressing a  strongly  felt opinion .
The phrase is also used out of habit to  preface   uncontentious  opinions .
For example:
The Chinese Civil War was a civil war in China fought between forces loyal to the government of the Republic of China led by the Kuomintang ( KMT ) and forces of the Communist Party of China ( CPC )  .
the  war began in April 1927  ,  amidst the Northern Expedition , and essentially ended when major active battles ceased in 1950 .
The conflict  आखिरकार  resulted in two de facto states , the Republic of China (  आरओसी  ) in Taiwan and the People 's Republic of China ( PRC ) in mainland China , both claiming to be the legitimate government of China .
the  war represented an ideological split ( Left vs . Right ) between the Communist CPC , and the  kmt  's brand of Nationalism .
The civil war continued intermittently until late 1937 , when the  दो  parties  formed  a  दूसरी  United Front  to  counter  a  Japanese invasion .
China 's full-scale civil  युद्ध  resumed in 1946 , a year after  the  end of  hostilities  with Japan .
After four more years ,  1950  saw the cessation  of   प्रमुख   सैन्य  hostilities—with the newly founded People  's  Republic of China controlling mainland China ( including Hainan ) , and the Republic of China 's jurisdiction being restricted to Taiwan , Penghu , Quemoy , Matsu and several outlying islands .
The Kuomintang defeat  is  attributed to several factors : Corruption - Chiang wrote in his diary on June 1948 that the KMT had failed , not because of external  दुश्मनों  but because  of  rot from within .
Strong initial support from  the  U.S. diminished , and then  ,  stopped .
( Partly because of KMT corruption  और  anti-democratic regime  ,  and partly  क्युकी  of the uncertain U.S. foreign policy towards Communism between  1945  and 1950  )  ; Communist  जमीन  reform policy promised poor  peasants  farmland from their landlords .
This ensured  pla   लोकप्रिय  support .
After the surrender of Japan at the end of World War II , Soviet forces turned over their captured Japanese weapons to the CPC and allowed the CPC to take control  of  territory in  मंचूरिया  .
To this  दिन  , no armistice  or  peace treaty has ever been signed , and  it  is debated as to the whether the Civil War has legally ended .
Cross-Strait relations have been hindered by military threats and political and economic  दबाव  , particularly over  ताईवान  's political status ,  साथ  both governments officially adhering to  a  `` One-China policy . ''
The  पीआरसी  still actively  दावा  Taiwan as part of its territory and continues to threaten the ROC with a military invasion if the ROC officially declares independence by changing its name to  और  gaining international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan .
The ROC mutually claims mainland China , and they both continue the fight  over   राजनयिक  recognition .
Today , the  युद्ध  as such occurs on the political and economic fronts  in  the  रूप  of cross-Strait relations ; however , the two separate de facto states have close  आर्थिक  ties .
The One Hundred Twelfth United  राज्य  Congress was the meeting of  the  legislative branch of the United States federal government , from January 3 , 2011 until January 3 , 2013 .
It convened in Washington  ,  D.C. on January 3 , 2011 ,  और  ended on January 3 , 2013 , 17 days before the end of the presidential term to which Barack Obama was elected in  2008  .
Senators elected to regular terms in 2006 completed those terms in this Congress .
This Congress included  the  last  हाउस  of Representatives elected from congressional  जिले  that were  apportioned   आधारित   on  the 2000 census .
In the 2010 midterm elections , the Republican Party won the majority in the House of Representatives .
While the Democrats kept their Senate majority ,  it  was reduced from the  पिछला  Congress .
This was the first Congress  in  which the House and Senate were controlled by different  पार्टियों  since the  107th  Congress ( 2001–2003 ) , and  the  first Congress to begin that way since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ) .
In this Congress , the House of Representatives had the largest number of  रिपब्लिकन  members ,  242  , since  the  80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ) .
It was also the first Congress since 1947  in  which no  सदस्य  of  the  Kennedy family served , as well as  the  most politically polarized Congress since Reconstruction , with record low approval ratings .
Wealth in the United States is commonly measured in terms of net worth , which is the sum  of  all assets , including home equity , minus  सब  liabilities .
The total net worth of US households and nonprofit organizations 1945–2009 , unadjusted for inflation or population change .
For example , a household in possession of an $ 800,000 house , $ 5,000 in mutual funds ,  $  30,000 in cars , $ 20,000 worth of stock  in  their own company , and a $ 45,000 IRA would have assets totaling $ 900,000 .
Assuming that this  household  would have  a   $  250,000 mortgage , $ 40,000 in car loans , and $ 10,000  in  credit card debt , its debts  होता   कुल  $ 300,000 .
Subtracting the debts from the worth of this household 's assets (  900,000  - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000  )  , this household would have a net  लायक  of $ 600,000 .
Net worth  can  vary with fluctuations in value of the underlying assets .
The wealth —more specifically , the median net worth—of  households  in the United States is  varied  with relation to race ,  शिक्षा  , geographic location and gender .
As one would expect , households with greater income feature the highest net worths , though high income can not be taken as  an  always accurate indicator of net worth .
Overall the number of wealthier  households  is on the  वृद्धि  ,  साथ  baby boomers hitting the  highs  of their careers .
In addition , wealth is unevenly distributed  ,   साथ  the  wealthiest  25 %  of   us  households owning 87  %  of the wealth in the United States , which was $ 54.2 trillion in  2009  .
Including human capital such as  कौशल   ,  the United Nations estimated the total wealth of the United States in 2008  to  be $ 118 trillion .
This article deals with Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy ( SDR )  बल्कि  than the rhizotomy procedures  लिये  pain relief ; for those procedures , which have begun  to  take the name `` rhizotomy  ''   in  certain instances , see facet rhizotomy and similar .
A rhizotomy  (  ) is a  पद  chiefly referring to a  neurosurgical  procedure  कि  selectively destroys problematic nerve roots in  the  spinal cord , most  प्रायः  to relieve the symptoms of neuromuscular conditions such as spastic diplegia and other  फ़ॉर्म  of  spastic  cerebral palsy .
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy has been the main use of  rhizotomy  for neurosurgeons specialising in spastic CP since the 1980s ; in this surgery , the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated  और  then targeted  और  destroyed .
The sensory nerve roots ,  जहाँ  spasticity is  स्तिथ  , are first  अलग  from the motor ones , and the nerve fibres to be cut are then identified via electromyographic stimulation .
The ones producing spasticity are then selectively lesioned with tiny electrical pulses .
In spasticity , rhizotomy precisely targets and destroys the damaged  nerves  that don’t receive  गामा  amino butyric acid , which is the core problem for people with  spastic  cerebral palsy .
These over-firing , non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate unusual electrical activity during the EMG testing phase in SDR and are thus considered  to  be the source of the  रोगी  's hypertonia ;  वे  are eliminated with the electrical pulses once identified , while the remaining nerves and nerve routes carrying the correct messages remain fully intact  और  untouched .
This means that the  spasticity  is permanently dissolved , and that this is done without affecting nervous system  संवेदनशीलता  or function in other  क्षेत्रों  , because the  तभी  nerves destroyed are the  over-firing  ones responsible for the muscle tightness  .
The  शर्तें  rhizotomy and neurotomy are also increasingly becoming interchangeable in the treatment  of  chronic  वापस  pain from degenerative disc disease  .
This is a procedure called a facet rhizotomy and is not a surgical procedure but is instead done on an outpatient basis using  a  simple probe to apply radiofrequency waves to the impinged pain-causing nerve root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body  .
ऐसे  radio frequency nerve lesioning  परिणाम  in five to eight or  अधिक  months of pain  राहत  before the nerve regenerates and  another  round of the procedure  needs  to be performed .
A facet rhizotomy is just one of  अनेक  different forms  of  radiofrequency ablation , and its use of the `` rhizotomy '' name should not be  उलझन  with the SDR procedure .
Migrant workers in California , 1935
The term  migrant  worker has different official  meanings  and connotations in different parts of the world .
The United  राष्ट्र  ' definition is  व्यापक  , including any people  working  outside of  उनके  home country .
The  पद  can also be used to describe someone who migrates within a country , possibly their own , in order to pursue work such as  मौसमी  work .
Photograph of Lil Wayne with teardrop tattoos below  उसके  eyes .
The teardrop tattoo or tear tattoo is a symbolic tattoo that is placed underneath the eye .
it  has no fixed meaning but almost all meanings ( see below ) have  कुछ  connection to  थाना  .
U.S. Route 75 is a  north–south  U.S. Highway .
The  राजमार्ग  's northern terminus is in Kittson County ,  मिनेसोटा  , at  the   कनाडाई   किनारा  , where  it  once  जारी  as Manitoba Highway 75 on the other side of the now-closed border crossing .
Its southern terminus is at Interstate 30 and Interstate 45 in Dallas , Texas , where it is known as North  सेंट्रल  Expressway .
U.S. 75  थी  a border-to-border route , from Canada  to  the Gulf  of  Mexico at Galveston , Texas  .
However  ,   the  entire segment south of Dallas , Texas  रै   महरूम  decommissioned in favor of Interstate 45 , a cutoff section of town-to-town surface road having become State Highway  75  .
Lower Ninth  वार्ड  is a neighborhood of the city of New Orleans .
As the name  implies  , it  is  part of the Ninth Ward of New  ऑरलियन्स  .
The Lower Ninth Ward is often  विचार  of as the entire area within New  ऑरलियन्स  downriver of the Industrial Canal ; however  ,  the City Planning Commission divides this area into the Lower Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy  क्रॉस  ( 3  )  neighborhoods .
The term `` Lower '' refers to its location  दूर  towards the mouth  of  the Mississippi River  ,  `` down '' or `` below '' the rest of the city in local geographic terminology .
But the 9th Ward , like all  wards  in  नई  Orleans , is a voting district .
The 9th Ward was  added  as a voting district in 1852 .
The `` lower  ''  9th Ward is composed of Ward 9 Districts 1  ,  2 , 4 , and 7  जिससे  make up the Holy Cross Area and Ward 9 Districts 3  ,  5 , 6 , and  8  .
Higher voting  ज़िला  numbers in the 9th Ward ( 8-27 ) are on the upriver side of the Industrial Canal .
The area came to national attention for its devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005 .
हबल  views of Copernicus crater ( inset ) , which is about 58 miles ( 93 km ) wide
Red and orange  tinted  Moon , as seen  इससे  Earth during a  चंद्र  eclipse , where the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is  the  only natural satellite of the Earth , and the fifth largest satellite in the Solar  प्रणाली  .
it  is the largest natural satellite of a planet in the Solar System relative to  the  size of its primary , having 27 %  the  diameter and 60 % the density of  धरती  , resulting in its mass .
The Moon is the second  densest   उपग्रह  after Io , a satellite of Jupiter .
The Moon is in  तुल्यकालिक  rotation with Earth , always showing the  वही  face with its near side marked by dark volcanic  मरिया  that fill  between  the bright ancient crustal highlands and the  prominent  impact craters .
It is the brightest object in the sky after the Sun , although  इसके  surface is actually  बहुत  dark , with a reflectance similar to that of  कोयले  .
Its prominence in the sky and its regular cycle of phases have , since ancient times  ,  made the Moon an important cultural influence on  भाषा  ,  पंचांग  , art and  mythology  .
The Moon  's  gravitational influence produces the ocean tides and the minute lengthening of  the  day .
The Moon 's current orbital distance , about thirty times the diameter of the Earth  ,  causes  it  to appear almost the same  आकार  in the sky as the Sun , allowing it to cover the Sun nearly precisely in total solar eclipses .
This matching of apparent visual size is a coincidence  .
The Moon 's linear distance from the Earth is currently increasing at a rate  of  3.82±0.07cm per year , but this  रेट  is not constant .
the  Moon  is  thought to have formed nearly 4.5 billion years ago , not long after the Earth .
Although there have been several hypotheses for its  उत्पत्ति  in the past , the current most widely accepted explanation is that the Moon formed from the debris left over after a  दानव  impact between Earth and a Mars -sized body .
The Moon is the only celestial body other than Earth on which humans have set foot .
The Soviet  संघ  's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in  1959  ; the United States '  नासा  Apollo program achieved the only manned missions to date , beginning with the first manned lunar orbiting  मिशन  by Apollo 8 in 1968 , and six manned lunar landings between  1969  and 1972 , with the first being Apollo 11 .
These missions returned over 380 kg of lunar rocks , which  have   महरूम  used to develop a geological understanding  of  the Moon 's origins ,  the  formation of  इसके  internal structure , and its subsequent history  .
After the Apollo 17 mission  in  1972 , the Moon has been visited only by  unmanned  spacecraft , notably by the final  सोवियत  Lunokhod rover .
Since 2004  ,  Japan , China , India , the United States , and the European Space Agency have each sent lunar orbiters .
These  spacecraft  have contributed to confirming the discovery of lunar water ice in permanently shadowed craters at the poles and bound into the lunar regolith .
Future manned missions to the  चंद्रमा  have  महरूम   नियोजित  ,  सहित  government as well as privately funded efforts .
The  चंद्रमा  remains  ,  under the Outer Space  सन्धि   ,  free to all nations to explore for peaceful purposes .
Ronald Wilson Reagan ( ;  फ़रवरी  6 , 1911 – June  5  , 2004 ) was the  40th   अध्यक्ष  of the United States ( 1981–1989 ) .
Prior to that , he was the 33rd Governor of California ( 1967–1975 ) , and a radio  ,  film and television actor .
Born in Tampico , Illinois ,  और  raised in Dixon , Reagan was educated  at  Eureka College , earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics  और  sociology .
After graduating , Reagan moved first  to  Iowa to work  as  a radio broadcaster and then , in 1937 , to Los Angeles where he began a career as an actor , first in films and later television  .
Some of his most notable films include Knute Rockne , All  अमरीकी  ( 1940  )   ,  Kings Row ( 1942 )  ,  and Bedtime for Bonzo (  1951  ) .
Reagan served  as  President of the Screen Actors Guild and later as a spokesman for  सामान्य  Electric ( GE ) ; his start  in  politics occurred during his work for GE .
Originally a member of the Democratic Party , his positions began shifting rightward in the 1950s  ,  and he switched to the Republican Party in 1962 .
बाद  delivering a rousing speech in  support  of Barry Goldwater 's presidential candidacy in 1964 , he was persuaded to seek the California  governorship  , winning two years later and again in 1970 .
He was defeated in his run for the Republican presidential nomination in 1968  और  in 1976 , but won both the nomination and general election in 1980 , defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter  .
As president , Reagan  implemented  sweeping new political and economic initiatives .
His supply-side economic policies , dubbed  ``  Reaganomics `` , advocated reducing tax  दरों  to spur economic growth , controlling the money supply to reduce inflation , deregulation of the economy , and reducing government spending .
In  उसके   पहला  term he  बच  an assassination attempt , took a hard line against labor unions , announced a new War on Drugs  ,  and ordered an invasion of Grenada .
He was re-elected in  a   भूस्खलन  in 1984 ,  proclaiming   कि   it  was `` Morning  in  America `` .
His second term was primarily marked  by  foreign matters , such as the ending of the Cold War , the 1986 bombing of Libya  ,  and  the  revelation of the Iran-Contra affair .
Publicly  describing  the Soviet Union as an `` evil empire  ``  , he supported anti-communist movements worldwide and spent his first term forgoing the strategy of  détente  by ordering a massive military buildup in an arms race with the USSR .
Reagan  negotiated  with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev , culminating in the INF Treaty and the decrease of both countries '  नाभिकीय  arsenals .
reagan  left office in 1989 .
In 1994 ,  the  former president disclosed  कि  he had been diagnosed with Alzheimer 's disease earlier in the year ; he died ten years later at the age of  93  .
A conservative icon  ,  he ranks highly  in  public opinion  पोल  of U.S. Presidents and is credited for generating an ideological renaissance on the American political right .
Complete  नियत  of scrolls  ,  constituting the entire Tanakh .
The Tanakh ( , or ; also Tenakh , Tenak , Tanach ) is a name used  in  Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew  बाइबल  .
The Tanakh is also known as the  masoretic  Text or the Miqra .
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text  's  three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching '' , also known as  the  Five  किताबे  of Moses ) , Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh .
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ) , meaning `` that which is read ''  ,  is  an  alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh .
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral tradition passed on by each generation , called the Oral Torah .
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a Kawasaki 600 cc  क्लास  sport  मोटरसाइकिल  .
It was introduced in 1995 , and has been constantly updated throughout the years in  जवाब  to new  उत्पाद  from Honda , Suzuki , and  यामाहा  .
The ZX series is what was known as  the  Ninja line of Kawasaki motorcycles in the 1980s and still  carries  the name today .
Assassination attempts and plots on Presidents of the United States have been numerous : more than 20 attempts to kill sitting and former presidents , as  खूब  as the Presidents-elect , are known .
Four sitting presidents have been killed : Abraham Lincoln ( the 16th  अध्यक्ष  ) , James A. Garfield ( the 20th President ) , William McKinley ( the 25th President  )  and John F. Kennedy ( the 35th President ) .
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations :  पूर्व  President Theodore Roosevelt ( the  26th  President ) , and President  रोनाल्ड  Reagan ( the 40th President ) .
Although the historian J.W  .  Clarke has suggested  कि  most American  assassinations  were politically motivated actions , carried out  by  rational men  ,  not all such attacks have been  undertaken  for political reasons .
Some attackers had  questionable  mental stability ,  और  a few  यहूद  judged legally  उन्मादी  .
Since  the  Vice President of the United States has for more than a century been elected from the same  राजनैतिक  party as the President , the assassination of the President is unlikely to  परिणाम  in major policy changes .
This may explain why political groups  typically  do not make such attacks  .
Where the  रेड  Fern Grows is a novel  लिखा  by Wilson Rawls in 1961 about  a  boy who buys and trains two Redbone Coonhound hunting dogs  .
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa , Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in West South Central United States .
ओक्लाहोमा  is the 20th most extensive and the 28th  सबसे  populous of the 50 United States .
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma , meaning `` red people '' ,  और   it  is known informally by its nickname , The Sooner State .
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory  और  Indian Territory on November 16 , 1907 ,  ओक्लाहोमा  was  the  46th state to enter the union .
Its residents are known as Oklahomans  or  , informally `` Okies '' , and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma  नगर  .
A major producer of natural gas , oil , and agriculture  ,  Oklahoma relies on an economic base of aviation , energy  ,   दूरसंचार   ,   और  biotechnology  .
It has one  of  the  तीव्रतम  growing economies in the nation , ranking among the top states in per capita income  विकास  and gross domestic  उत्पाद   विकास  .
ओक्लाहोमा  City and Tulsa serve  as  Oklahoma 's primary  आर्थिक   anchors  ,  साथ  nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within  उनके  metropolitan statistical areas .
With small mountain ranges , prairie , mesas , and eastern forests , most of Oklahoma lies in the Great Plains and the  u.s  . Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe  मौसम  .
In addition to  having  a prevalence of English  ,  German , Scottish  ,  Irish and Native American ancestry , more  than  25 Native American languages  हैं  spoken in Oklahoma , second only to California .
Oklahoma is  स्तिथ  on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and historically served as a route for cattle drives , a destination for southern  settlers  , and  a  government-sanctioned territory for  देशी  Americans .
Redwall , by Brian Jacques , is a series of children 's fantasy  novels  .
it  is the title of the first book of the  श्रेणी   ,  published  in  1986 , as well  as  the name of the Abbey featured in the book and the name of an animated TV series based on three of the novels ( Redwall , Mattimeo  ,  and Martin the Warrior ) , which first aired in 1999 .
The books are primarily aimed at older children , but have fans of all ages .
There have been twenty-two  novels   और  two picture books published .
The twenty-second ,  और  final , novel , The  दुष्ट  Crew , was  मरणोपरांत  released on  may   3   ,  2011 .
Natural Gas is usually measured by volume in the  संयुक्त  States and is stated in cubic feet .
A cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas needed to fill a volume of one cubic foot under set  शर्तें  of pressure and temperature.To measure larger  amounts  of natural gas ,  a  `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic  फीट  , and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 cubic feet .
To provide greater accuracy in comparing fuels , energy content is measured in terms  of  `` British Thermal Units ( BTU 's  )  .  ''
A BTU  is  the  राशि  of heat required to  उठाएँ  one pound  of  water ( approximately a pint ) , one degree Fahrenheit at or  बंद  to its point of maximum density .
One British therm ( symbol thm ) is a non- SI unit of heat energy equal  to  100,000  अंग्रेजों  thermal units (  btu  ) .
it  is approximately the energy equivalent of burning 100 cubic feet ( often referred to as 1 CCF ) of natural gas  .
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters measure volume and not energy content ,  a  therm factor is used by ( Natural ) gas companies to convert the volume of gas used to  इसके  heat equivalent , and thus calculate  the  actual energy use .
The therm factor is usually in the units therms/CCF .
It will vary with the mix of hydrocarbons  in  the  प्राकृतिक  gas .
Natural gas with a higher than average concentration  of   इथेन  ,  प्रोपेन  or butane will have a higher therm factor .
impurities  , such as carbon dioxide or nitrogen , lower the therm  फ़ैक्टर  .
The volume of the gas is calculated as if measured at standard temperature and pressure ( STP ) .
The heat content of natural gas is solely dependent on the composition of the gas , and is independent of temperature and pressure .
एक  therm is equal to about 105.5  megajoules  , 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours .
One therm can also be provided by about of natural gas .
The therm sometimes has been  उलझन  with the thermie ( see  नीचे  ) .
The names of both units come from the Greek  शब्द  for heat  .
A thermie ( th )  is  a  मीट्रिक  unit of heat energy ,  भाग   of  the meter-tonne-second system  sometimes  used  by  European  इंजीनियर्स  .
The thermie is equal to  the  amount  of  energy required to raise the temperature  of  1  टन  of  जल  by 1  °c  .
The thermie  is  equivalent  to  1,000 kilocalories ,  4.1868  megajoules or 3968.3 BTU .
The  अमरीकी  Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or  बस  the Civil War (  देखिए   नामकरण   )  , was a civil war fought from  1861  to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several  दक्षिणी   स्लेव  states that  घोषित  their secession and  formed  the Confederate States of  अमेरिका  ( the `` Confederacy '' or  the  `` South ''  )  .
The war had its origin in the  समस्या  of slavery , especially the extension of slavery  into  the western territories  .
Foreign powers did  नहीं  intervene .
After four years of bloody combat  कि  left over 600,000 soldiers  मुर्दे   और  destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the  confederacy  collapsed , slavery was abolished  ,  and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to  the  freed slaves began .
in  the  1860  presidential  चुनाव  , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln  जीती  , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven  cotton-based  slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James  बुकानन  and the incoming Republicans  अस्वीकृत  secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's  inaugural  address declared his administration would not initiate civil  युद्ध  .
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise , and both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that  यूरोपीय  countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that  वे  would intervene ; none did and none recognized  the  new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April  12  , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a  कुंजी  fort held  by  Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to  provide   सैनिकों  to retake  the  fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to  ग्यारह  .
The Union soon controlled the  किनारा  states and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a  संघ   राज्य  ) ended  साथ  Confederate retreat at the Battle  of  Antietam , dissuading British  हस्तक्षेप  .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा  , which made ending slavery a war  लक्ष्य  .
To the west , by summer  1862  the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then  much  of  उनके  western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split  the  Confederacy in two at the  मिसिसिपी  River .
in  1863 , Robert E. Lee 's  confederate  incursion north ended at the Battle of  gettysburg  .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove  ईस्ट  to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the  confederacy  from all  दिशानिर्देश  , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond  ,  the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The  अमरीकी  Civil War was one of the earliest true industrial  युद्धों  .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships  ,  and mass-produced weapons were employed  extensively  .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines ,  shipyards  , banks , transportation  और  food  आपूर्तियाँ   सब  foreshadowed  संसार  War I .
It remains  the  deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian  हताहत  .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten  प्रतिशत  of all Northern  males   20–45  years old , and 30 percent  of  all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28 , 1949 )  is  a former U.S. track and field athlete ,  प्रेरक  speaker , socialite  ,  television personality and businessman .
He won  the  gold medal for  decathlon  in the Montreal 1976 Summer Olympics .
Following his Olympic win and the related recognition , he married Kris  कार्दशियन  , and his  पेशेवर  career evolved into being a television  हस्ती  .
By 1981 , he had starred in several made-for-TV  फिल्मों  and was  erik  Estrada 's replacement on the top  रेटेड  TV series CHiPs .
He has six children : Burt , Casey , Brandon , Brody , Kendall and Kylie .
Since his 1991 marriage  to  Kris Jenner , he  is  the stepfather to Kourtney , Kim , Khloe and Rob  कार्दशियन  .
Since 2007 , he has appeared with his blended family on  keeping  Up with the Kardashians .
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated E. coli ) is a Gram-negative ,  rod-shaped  bacterium that is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ) .
Most E. coli strains  हैं  harmless , but some  serotypes  can cause  गंभीर  food poisoning in humans , and are occasionally responsible for product recalls due to food contamination .
The harmless  strains  are part of the normal flora of the gut , and can benefit their  होस्ट  by producing vitamin K2 , and by preventing the establishment  of   रोगजनक  bacteria within the intestine .
E. coli and related bacteria constitute about 0.1 % of gut flora , and fecal–oral transmission is the major  रूट  through which pathogenic  strains  of the bacterium cause disease .
Cells are able to survive outside the body for a limited amount of time , which makes them ideal indicator organisms to test environmental  नमूने  for fecal contamination .
वहीँ  is  ,  however , a growing body of research that has examined environmentally persistent E. coli which can survive for extended periods outside of the host .
The bacterium can also be grown  easily  and inexpensively in a laboratory setting  ,  and has been intensively investigated for  over  60 years  .
E.  coli is the most widely studied prokaryotic model organism , and an important species in the fields of biotechnology and microbiology , where it has served as the  मेजबान  organism for the majority of work with recombinant  डीएनए   .
Area code 217 is the  उत्तर  American telephone area code for much of western and central Illinois .
The 217 area includes Illinois ' capital , Springfield , plus Champaign , Urbana , Decatur ,  danville  ,  क्विंसी  , and Rantoul .
217 was one of the original area codes ,  जिससे   यहूद  created in 1947 .
The only significant  बदलें  in  217  's boundaries was in 1957 , when its northern portion was combined  साथ  part of area code 815 to  रूप  area code 309  .
Image of the largest  अंटार्कटिक  ozone hole ever recorded ( September 2006 ) , over the Southern pole
Layers of the atmosphere ( not to  स्केल  )
Ozone depletion describes two distinct but related phenomena observed since  the  late 1970s : a steady decline of  परिचय  4 % per decade in the total volume of ozone in Earth 's  stratosphere  ( the ozone layer )  ,  and  a  much larger springtime decrease  in  stratospheric ozone over  धरती  's polar regions  .
The latter phenomenon is referred to as the ozone hole  .
In addition to these well-known  stratospheric  phenomena , there are also springtime polar tropospheric ozone  depletion  events  .
The details of polar ozone hole formation differ  इससे  that of  mid-latitude  thinning , but the  सबसे  important process in both is  catalytic   विनाश  of ozone by atomic halogens .
The main source of these halogen  अणु  in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( CFCs , freons , halons ) .
These compounds are transported into the stratosphere after  होने  emitted at the surface .
Both types of  ओज़ोन  depletion were observed to increase as emissions of  halo-carbons  increased .
CFCs  और   अन्य   contributory  substances are referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ) .
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm )  of  ultraviolet  लाइट  ( UV light ) from passing through the Earth 's atmosphere , observed and projected decreases in ozone have generated worldwide concern leading to adoption  of  the  मॉन्ट्रियल  Protocol  कि  bans the production of CFCs , halons , and other ozone-depleting chemicals such  as   कार्बन  tetrachloride and trichloroethane .
It is suspected that a variety of biological consequences such as increases in skin cancer ,  cataracts  ,  क्षति  to plants , and reduction of plankton populations in the ocean 's photic zone may result from the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion .
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief introductory statement of the  संविधान  's fundamental purposes and  guiding  principles .
it  states in general terms , and  न्यायालयों  have referred to it as reliable evidence of , the Founding  fathers  ' intentions regarding  the  Constitution  's  meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States .
As  the  phrase , `` we  the  people '' suggests that the new government originates  इससे  the people of the United States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in  the   divide  between republicanism and social democracy  .
Czechoslovakian  शॉट  putter Plihan at the 1957 East German Indoor Athletics Championships
The shot put  (  pronounced ) is a track and field  इवेंट  involving ``  फेंकना   ''  / '' putting '' ( throwing in a pushing motion ) a heavy spherical  ऑब्जेक्ट   —the  shot—as far as possible .
The shot put competition  लिये  men  रै  been a part of the modern Olympics since their revival in 1896 , women 's competition began in 1948 .
Map of  the  United Nations ( UN ) member states , with their territories ( including dependent territories ) recognized by the UN in blue
There  हैं  United Nations ( UN )  सदस्य   राज्य  ,  और   प्रत्येक  of them is a member of the United Nations General Assembly .
The criteria for admission of new members are set out in  the  United Nations Charter , Chapter II , Article  4:
A recommendation for admission  इससे  the  सुरक्षा  Council requires affirmative votes from at least  नौ  of the council 's fifteen members , with none of the five permanent members voting against .
The Security  परिषद  's recommendation must then be subsequently approved in the  सामान्य  Assembly by  a  two-thirds majority vote .
In  principle   ,  only sovereign states can become UN members , and currently all UN members are sovereign states (  हालांकि  a few members were not sovereign when they joined the UN ) .
Because a state can only  be  admitted  to  the UN  by  the approval of the Security Council and the General Assembly , a number of states that  may  be considered sovereign states according to the  montevideo  Convention criteria are not members because the UN  करता  not consider them to possess sovereignty , mainly  due   to  the lack  of  international  मान्यता  or opposition  इससे  certain members .
In addition to the member states  ,  the UN also invites non-member states ( currently  दो  : the Holy See and Palestine ) , intergovernmental organizations  ,  and other international organizations and entities whose  statehood  or sovereignty are  नहीं  precisely defined , to become  observers  at the General Assembly , allowing them to participate and speak , but not vote , in General Assembly meetings .
The Eiffel Tower ( , ) is an iron lattice tower located on the Champ de Mars  in  Paris ,  नामित  after the engineer Gustave Eiffel ,  जिनकी  company designed and built the tower  .
Erected in 1889 as the  प्रवेश  arch to the 1889 World 's Fair , it has become both a  वैश्विक  cultural icon of France and  एक  of the most recognizable structures in the world .
The tower is  the  tallest structure in  पेरिस  and the most-visited paid monument in the world ; 7.1 million people ascended it in  2011  .
the   तीसरा  level observatory 's upper platform is  at  the highest  accessible   to  public in the European Union and the highest in Europe as long as the platform of the Ostankino Tower ,  at  , remains closed as a result of the fire of August 2000 .
The tower received its 250 millionth visitor in  2010  .
The tower stands tall , about  the  same  ऊँचाई  as  an  81-storey building .
During its construction , the Eiffel Tower surpassed the Washington Monument to assume the title of the  tallest   man-made  structure in the world , a title it held for 41 years , until the Chrysler Building in New York City was built in 1930 .
Because of the addition , in 1957 , of the antenna atop the  एफिल  Tower , it is now  taller  than the Chrysler Building .
Not including broadcast  एन्टेना   ,  it is the  second-tallest  structure  in  France , after the Millau  viaduct  .
The tower has  तीन  levels for visitors .
Tickets can be purchased to ascend , by stairs or lift ( elevator ) , to the first and  दूसरी   स्तर  .
The walk from ground level to the first level is over 300 steps , as is the walk from the first to  the  second level .
The third and highest level is accessible only by lift—stairs do exist but are usually closed to the public  .
The first and second levels have restaurants .
the  tower has become the most prominent symbol of both Paris and France , often in the establishing shot of films  नियत  in the city .
Kenneth Wayne `` Ken '' Jennings III ( born May 23 , 1974 ) is an American game show contestant and author .
Jennings is noted for holding the record for the longest winning streak  on  the U.S. syndicated game show Jeopardy !
and as being  the  all-time leading money winner  on  American game shows .
in  2004 , Jennings won 74 Jeopardy !
games before he  थी  defeated by challenger Nancy Zerg on his 75th appearance .
His total earnings on Jeopardy !
are  $  3,172,700 , consisting  of  $ 2,520,700 over his 74 wins , a $ 2,000 second-place prize in his 75th appearance , a $  500,000  second-place prize  in  the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of  champions  , as  खूब  as half of a $ 300,000 prize in the IBM Challenge .
During his first run of Jeopardy !
appearances , Jennings earned  the  record for the highest American game show winnings .
His total was surpassed by Brad Rutter , who defeated  जेनिंग्स  in the finals of the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions ( first aired on May 25  ,  2005 ) , adding $ 2,000,000 to Rutter 's existing Jeopardy !
winnings .
Jennings regained the record after appearing on several other game shows , culminating in an appearance on Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader ?
( first aired on October 10 ,  2008  )  ,  though Rutter retains the  jeopardy  !
record .
After his success on Jeopardy ! , Jennings wrote about his experience and explored American trivia history and culture in his book  brainiac  : Adventures in the Curious , Competitive , Compulsive World of Trivia  buffs  , published in 2006 .
The Canadian Football League or CFL ( ' [ LCF ] in French ) is a professional sports league located in Canada .
The CFL is the highest level of competition in Canadian football , a form of gridiron football closely related to  अमरीकी  football .
इसके  eight current teams , which are located in eight  पृथक   शहरों  , are divided into two divisions of four teams each — the East Division and the West Division .
The league  's  19-week regular season runs from  लेट  June to  जल्दी   नवम्बर  ; each team plays 18 games  साथ  one bye week .
Following the  नियमित  season , the three teams with the best records in their division ( except if the  चौथी  place team in one division has a  बेहतर  record than the  तीसरा  place team in the other division , when the team with the better record makes the playoffs and `` crosses over '' to the  अन्य  division 's playoff ) compete in the league  's  three-week divisional playoffs , which culminate in the late-November Grey Cup championship , the country 's largest annual sports and television event .
The CFL was officially founded on January 19 , 1958 , making it the second  oldest  gridiron football league in North America still in operation , although all  इसके   टीमों  long predate the modern formation of the league .
It  is  the highest level of play  in  Canadian football , the most  लोकप्रिय  football league in Canada , and the second-most popular major sports league in Canada , after the National Hockey League .
Although ice hockey is  कनाडा  's most popular sport , the CFL has increased the popularity of  कनाडाई  football  in  Quebec and Western  कनाडा  .
Canadian football is  भी  played at amateur levels ( i.e . youth , high school ,  cjfl  , QJFL , CIS and senior leagues such as the  अलबर्टा  Football League ) .
The 2010s  होगा  be a significant decade for the CFL in terms of growth , as teams have renovated , expanded stadiums , or plan  to  build entirely new stadiums .
The  मॉन्ट्रियल  Alouettes accomplished this first , adding 5,000 seats to Percival Molson Memorial  स्टेडियम  in time for the 2010  cfl  season  .
The Edmonton Eskimos and Calgary Stampeders also renovated their respective stadiums and facilities  लिये  the 2010 season .
In 2011 , the BC Lions played  अंतर्गत   a  new ,  retractable  roof in BC Place after spending one and  a  half seasons at Empire Field .
Then the Winnipeg Blue Bombers will play in an entirely new stadium at  the  University of Manitoba ,  अनुसूचित  to open in time for  the  2013 season .
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats , Saskatchewan Roughriders and the new Ottawa franchise are  भी  looking at new or extensively-renovated  स्टेडियम  in the  following  years  .
There are also hopes of expanding the league to Atlantic Canada ( ideally basing a  टोली  in either the more populated Halifax  ,  or the more centralized Moncton ) , as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton .
According to sports historian Douglas Brei  ,  the Canadian Football League holds the distinction of being the only professional sports league  in  North America , major or minor league , in which each existing franchise has  जीती  at least one league title while in their current location .
Each antibody binds to a specific antigen ; an interaction similar to a lock and key .
An antibody ( Ab ) , also known as an immunoglobulin ( Ig ) , is a  विशाल  Y-shaped protein produced by B-cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects such as bacteria  और  viruses .
The antibody recognizes  a  unique part of the foreign target  ,  called an antigen .
Each  टिप  of the ``  y  '' of an antibody contains a paratope ( a structure analogous to a lock )  कि  is specific for one particular epitope (  similarly  analogous to a key ) on an  प्रतिजन  , allowing these two structures to bind together with precision .
Using  इस   बाइंडिंग  mechanism , an antibody can tag a microbe or an  संक्रमित  cell  लिये  attack by other parts of the immune  प्रणाली  , or  can  neutralize its target directly ( for example , by blocking a part of a microbe that is essential for its invasion and survival ) .
The production of antibodies is the main function of the humoral immune  प्रणाली  .
Antibodies are secreted  by  a type of white blood cell called a  प्लाज्मा  cell .
Antibodies can occur in  दो   शारीरिक  forms , a soluble form that is secreted from the cell , and a membrane -bound form that is attached to the surface  of  a B cell  और  is  referred  to as the B cell receptor ( BCR ) .
The BCR is  तभी  found on the surface of B cells and facilitates the activation of these cells and their subsequent differentiation into either  एंटीबॉडी  factories  पुकारा  plasma cells  ,  or memory B cells that will survive in the body  और  remember that same antigen so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure .
In most cases , interaction of the B cell with  a  T helper cell is necessary to produce full activation of the B cell and , therefore , antibody generation following  प्रतिजन  binding .
घुलनशील  antibodies are released  into  the blood and tissue fluids , as well as many secretions to continue to survey for invading microorganisms .
antibodies  are glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the terms  एंटीबॉडी  and immunoglobulin are often used interchangeably .
Antibodies are typically made  of  basic structural units—each with two large heavy chains and two small light chains  .
There are several different types of antibody heavy chains , and several different kinds of antibodies , which are grouped into different isotypes based on which heavy chain they possess .
Five different antibody isotypes are  ज्ञात  in mammals , which perform different roles , and  सहायता  direct  the  appropriate immune  जवाब  for  प्रत्येक  different type of foreign object they encounter .
Though the general structure of all antibodies is  बहुत  similar ,  a  small region  at  the tip of the protein is extremely variable , allowing millions of antibodies with slightly different tip structures , or antigen binding sites , to exist .
इस  region is known as the hypervariable region .
Each of these  विसंगतियाँ   can  bind to a different antigen .
This enormous diversity of antibodies allows the immune system to recognize an equally wide variety of antigens .
The large and diverse population of antibodies  is  generated by random combinations of a set of gene segments that encode  अलग  antigen binding sites ( or  paratopes  ) , followed by random mutations in this area of the antibody gene , which create further diversity .
Antibody genes also re-organize in a process called class switching that changes the base of the heavy chain to another , creating a  अलग  isotype of the antibody that  retains  the  प्रतिजन  specific variable region .
This allows a  सिंगल  antibody to be used by several different parts of the immune system  .
The  प्रतीक  used by the Zodiac Killer to sign his correspondence
The Zodiac Killer was a serial killer who operated  in  Northern California in the late 1960s and early 1970s  .
The killer 's identity remains unknown .
The Zodiac murdered  पीड़ितों  in Benicia , Vallejo , Lake Berryessa , and San Francisco between December 1968 and October 1969  .
चार  men and three women between the  आयु   of   16  and 29 were  targeted  .
The killer originated the name `` Zodiac ''  in  a series  of  taunting letters  भेजा  to  the  local Bay Area press .
These letters included four cryptograms ( or ciphers ) .
Of the four cryptograms sent ,  तभी  one  रै  been definitively solved .
Suspects have been named by law enforcement and amateur investigators , but no conclusive evidence has surfaced .
In April 2004 , the San Francisco Police Department  चिह्नित  the  मामला   ``  inactive '' , yet re-opened the  मामला  at some point prior to March 2007 .
The case also remains open in the city of Vallejo , as well as in Napa County and Solano County .
The California Department of Justice has maintained an open case file on the Zodiac murders since 1969 .
Jennings is a small city in and the parish seat of Jefferson Davis Parish , Louisiana , United  राज्य  , near Lake Charles .
The population was 10,383  at  the 2010 census  ,  a small decline from the  2000  tabulation .
the  city is 68 percent white  .
Jennings  is  the principal city of the Jennings Micropolitan Statistical Area , which includes all of  जेफरसन  Davis  मोहल्ला  .
It is  भी  part of the larger Lake Charles-Jennings Combined Statistical Area .
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to ``  nanotech  '' ) is the manipulation of matter on an atomic  और   आणविक  scale .
The earliest , widespread description of nanotechnology referred to the particular  technological  goal of precisely manipulating atoms and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products , also now referred  to  as molecular nanotechnology .
A more  generalized  description  of  nanotechnology was  subsequently  established by the National Nanotechnology Initiative , which defines nanotechnology as the manipulation of matter with at least one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers .
This definition  reflects  the fact that quantum  mechanical  effects  हैं  important at this quantum-realm scale ,  और  so the definition shifted from a particular technological  लक्ष्य  to a research category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with  the  special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold .
It is  इसलिए  common to see the plural form `` nanotechnologies ''  as   खूब  as `` nanoscale  technologies  '' to refer to the broad range of research and applications whose common trait is size .
Because  of  the variety of  संभावित  applications ( including industrial and military ) , governments have invested billions of dollars in nanotechnology  शोध  .
Through its National Nanotechnology  पहल  , the  यूएसए  has invested 3.7 billion dollars .
The  यूरोपीय  Union has invested 1.2 billion and  जापानी  750 million dollars .
nanotechnology   as  defined by size is naturally very broad , including  फ़ील्ड   of  science as diverse as surface  विज्ञान  , organic chemistry , molecular biology  ,  semiconductor physics , microfabrication , etc .
The associated research and applications are equally diverse , ranging from extensions of conventional device  भौतिकी   to  completely  नई  approaches based upon molecular self-assembly , from developing new materials with dimensions on  the  nanoscale to direct control of  पदार्थ  on the atomic scale .
Scientists currently debate the future implications of nanotechnology .
nanotechnology  may be able to create many new materials and devices  साथ  a vast range of applications ,  ऐसे  as in medicine , electronics , biomaterials and energy production .
On the other hand , nanotechnology raises many of the same issues as any  नई  technology , including concerns  परिचय  the toxicity and environmental impact of nanomaterials  ,  and  उनके  potential effects on  वैश्विक  economics , as well as speculation  परिचय  various doomsday  scenarios  .
These concerns have led  to  a debate among advocacy  समूह  and governments on whether special regulation  of  nanotechnology is warranted .
Map of the  पूर्वी  Bloc
The term Eastern Bloc or Communist Bloc refers to the former communist states of Central  और  Eastern Europe  ,  generally the Soviet Union  और  the countries of the Warsaw Pact .
The terms Communist Bloc and Soviet Bloc  यहूद  also used to denote groupings  of  states aligned with the Soviet Union , although these terms might include states outside Central and Eastern Europe .
The New Jersey gubernatorial election of 2009  took  place on November  3  , 2009 .
Democratic Governor Jon Corzine was running  लिये  a second term and was being challenged by Republican Chris Christie , Independent Christopher Daggett and nine others , in  जोड  to  अनेक  write-in candidates .
Christie won the election , with about 48.5 percent of the  vote  , to 44.9  प्रतिशत  for Corzine and 5.8 percent for Daggett .
Christie won the largest margin for a first term Republican since 1969  .
Christie assumed office  on  January 19 , 2010 .
This was the first election to fill the newly created office of Lieutenant Governor .
The candidates for governor and lieutenant governor were joined together as a single choice , so  कि  voters did not have the opportunity to  विभाजित  the ticket .
Kim Guadagno , Christie 's running mate , became New Jersey 's first lieutenant governor following her inauguration .
Health care  in   the  United States is provided by many distinct organizations .
Health care facilities are largely owned and operated by private sector businesses  .
Health insurance for public sector employees is primarily provided  by  the government .
60-65 % of healthcare provision  और  spending comes from programs such as Medicare , Medicaid , TRICARE , the Children  's  Health Insurance Program , and the Veterans Health Administration .
Most of the  जनसांख्यिकी  under 65 is insured by their or a family member  's  employer ,  कुछ  buy health  बीमे  on their own ,  और  the remainder are uninsured .
Of 17 high-income  देशों  studied by the National Institutes of Health  in  2013 , the United States was at or near the bottom in infant mortality , heart and lung disease , sexually transmitted infections , adolescent  pregnancies  , injuries , homicides , and rates of disability .
Together ,  ऐसे  issues place  the  U.S. at the bottom of the list for life expectancy .
On average , a U.S. male  can  be expected to live almost four  कम  years than  those  in the  top-ranked  country .
according  to the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , the United States  खर्च  more on health  परवाह  per capita ( $ 7,146 ) , and more on health care as percentage of its GDP ( 15.2 % ) ,  than   कोई  other  स्वदेश  in 2008 .
The Commonwealth Fund ranked  the  United States last in the quality of health care among similar countries , and notes  u.S.  care costs the most .
The U.S. Census Bureau reported  कि  49.9 million residents , 16.3 % of the population , were  uninsured  in 2010 ( up from 49.0 million  निवासियों  ,  16.1  %  of  the population , in 2009 ) .
A  2004  Institute of Medicine ( IOM ) report said :  ``  The United States is among the few industrialized nations in the world that does  नहीं  guarantee access to health care for its population . ''
A 2004  oecd   रपट  said : `` With the exception  of  Mexico , Turkey , and the United States , all OECD countries had  हासिल  universal or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured  )  coverage of their populations by 1990 . ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of health insurance causes roughly 48,000 unnecessary deaths every year in the United States .
In 2007 , 62.1 % of filers for bankruptcies claimed high medical  खर्च  .
A 2013 study found that about 25 % of all senior citizens declare bankruptcy due  to  medical  खर्च  , and 43 % are forced to mortgage or sell their primary residence .
On March 23 , 2010 , the Patient Protection and Affordable  परवाह  Act ( PPACA ) became law , providing  लिये  major changes in health  बीमे  .
In physiology , body water is the water content of the human body .
A  significant  fraction of the human body is water .
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook of Medical Physiology states that ``  the  total  राशि  of water in a man of average weight ( 70 kilograms  )  is approximately 40  लीटर  , averaging 57 percent  of  his total body weight .
In a newborn infant , this may be as high as 75 percent of the body weight , but it progressively decreases from birth to old age , most of the decrease occurring during the first 10 years of life .
Also  ,  obesity decreases the  प्रतिशत  of water  in  the body , sometimes to as low as 45 percent ''  .
These figures are statistical averages , so are illustrative  ,  and  जैसे  all biostatistics , will vary with things like type of population , age and number  of  people sampled ,  और  methodology .
So there is not , and can not be , a figure that is exactly the same for all people , for this or any other physiological measure .
लिये  example , Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & Physiology for Nurses gives a figure of 60 % for the proportion of body-weight attributable to water  ,   जिससे  approximates Guyton 's 57 % .
In diseased states  जहाँ  body water is affected , the compartment or compartments that have changed can give clues to the nature of the problem .
Body water is regulated by hormones , including anti-diuretic hormone ( ADH ) , aldosterone and  अलिंदी  natriuretic  पेप्टाइड  .
Per  netter  's Atlas of Human Physiology  ,  body water is broken down into the following compartments:
Intracellular fluid (  2/3  of body water ) .
Per Guyton , in a body containing 40 litres of fluid , about  25   लीटर  is intracellular , which amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ) , close enough to the 2/3 rule of thumb .
Jackson 's texts states 70 % of  देह  fluid is intracellular .
Extracellular  द्रव  ( 1/3 of body  जल  )  .
Per Guyton 's illustration , for  a  40 litre body , about 15 litres is extracellular , which amounts to 37.5 % Again , this is close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here .
Plasma ( 1/5  of  extracellular fluid ) .
Per Guyton 's illustration  ,  of  the  15 litres of extracellular fluid , plasma volume averages 3 litres .
This amounts to 20 % , the same as per Netter 's Atlas .
Interstitial fluid ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid )
Transcellular fluid ( a.k.a . `` third space , '' normally ignored in  calculations  )
Contained inside organs , such as the gastrointestinal , cerebrospinal , peritoneal ,  और   ocular   fluids  .
Self-esteem is a term used in psychology to reflect a person 's  overall  emotional evaluation of his or her own worth .
it  is a judgement of oneself as  खूब  as an attitude toward the self .
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( for example  ,  `` I am competent , '' `` I am worthy '' ) and emotions such as  triumph  , despair , pride and shame .
Smith and Mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is what we think about the self ; self-esteem , is the positive or negative  evaluations  of the self , as in how  we  feel about  it   .  ''
Self-esteem is also known as the evaluative dimension  of  the self that includes feelings of worthiness ,  prides  and discouragement .
One 's self-esteem is also closely associated with self-consciousness .
Self-esteem is a  disposition  that a person has which represents their judgements of their own worthiness .
in   the  mid-1960s , Morris Rosenberg and social-learning theorists defined self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness  .
Nathaniel Branden in 1969 defined self-esteem as `` the experience of being competent to cope  साथ  the basic challenges of life  और  being worthy of happiness  .  ''
According to Branden , self-esteem is the sum of  self-confidence  ( a feeling of personal capacity ) and self-respect ( a feeling of personal worth  )  .
It exists as  a  consequence  of  the implicit judgement that  प्रत्येक  person has of their ability to face life 's challenges , to understand and solve problems , and their right to  achieve  happiness , and be given respect .
As a social psychological construct , self-esteem is attractive because researchers have conceptualized it as an  influential  predictor of  प्रासंगिक  outcomes , such as academic  उपलब्धि  ( Marsh  1990  ) or exercise behavior ( Hagger et al . 1998 ) .
in   जोड  , self-esteem has also been treated as  an  important outcome due to its close relation with psychological  well-being  ( Marsh 1989 ) .
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension ( for example , `` I believe I am a good writer and I feel happy about that '' ) or a global extent (  लिये   उदाहरण  , `` I believe I am  a  bad person , and feel bad about myself in general '' ) .
psychologists  usually regard  self-esteem  as an enduring personality  characteristic  (  ``  trait '' self-esteem ) , though normal , short-term variations ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist .
Synonyms or near-synonyms  of  self-esteem include : self-worth , self-regard , self-respect  ,  and self-integrity .
A Masonic Lodge , often termed a Private Lodge or Constituent Lodge , is the basic organisational unit of Freemasonry .
Every new  आवास  must be warranted or chartered  by  a Grand Lodge , but is subject  to  its direction only in enforcing the published Constitution of the jurisdiction .
By exception the three surviving lodges that formed the  संसार  's first  ज्ञात  Grand Lodge in London ( today called the United Grand Lodge  of  England ) have the unique privilege to  operate  as time immemorial i.e . without such warrant  ;  only one other lodge operates without a warrant  -  this is the Grand Stewards '  आवास  in London , although it is not also  हकदार  to the `` time immemorial  ''  title .
A Freemason is generally entitled to  विज़िट  any Lodge , in any jurisdiction  (   i.e  .  अंतर्गत  any Grand Lodge ) in amity with his own  .
In some jurisdictions this privilege is restricted to Master Masons  (  that is , Freemasons who have attained the Order 's third degree ) .
He is first usually required to check  ,  and certify , the regularity of the relationship of the Lodge - and  be   समर्थ   to  satisfy that Lodge  of  his regularity of membership .
Freemasons gather together as a Lodge to work the three basic  डिग्री  of Entered Apprentice , Fellowcraft  और  Master Mason .
Pilkington Group Limited is a multinational glass manufacturing company headquartered in  st   हेलेन्स  , United Kingdom and  a   wholly  owned subsidiary of the Japan-based NSG Group .
Prior to its  अधिग्रहण  by  एनएसजी  in 2006 it was an independent company listed  on  the  लंदन  Stock Exchange and for a  समय  was a constituent of the FTSE 100  अनुक्रमणिका  .
A quotation is  the  repetition of one expression as part of another one , particularly when the quoted expression is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to  इसके  original source ,  और  it  is  indicated by ( punctuated with ) quotation  marks  .
A quotation can also refer to the repeated use of units of any other form of expression , especially  भाग  of artistic works : elements of a painting  ,  scenes from a movie or sections from a musical composition .
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was  a  common year starting  on  Monday ( link  होगा  display the full calendar  )  of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Saturday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar .
Black pepper  (  Piper nigrum  )  is  a  flowering vine in  the  family Piperaceae , cultivated for its fruit , which is usually dried and used as a spice  और   seasoning  .
The fruit , known as a  peppercorn  when dried , is approximately in diameter , dark red when fully mature ,  और  , like  सब  drupes , contains a single seed .
Peppercorns , and the ground pepper derived from them , may be described simply as pepper , or more precisely  as  black pepper ( cooked and  सूखी  unripe  फल  ) , green pepper  (  dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper (  सूखी  ripe seeds ) .
Black pepper is native to south India ,  और  is  extensively  cultivated there and elsewhere in  तीव्र  regions .
Currently Vietnam  is  the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper , producing 34 %  of  the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008 .
Dried ground pepper  रै  been used since antiquity for both its flavour and as a medicine .
Black pepper is  the  world 's most traded spice .
It is one of the most common spices added to European cuisine and its descendants .
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine , not to be confused with the capsaicin  कि  gives fleshy peppers theirs .
It is in  the  modern world , often  युग्म  with salt  .
Fire  hydrant  in Charlottesville , Virginia , USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a fire plug  in  the  संयुक्त  States or as a johnny pump in New York  नगर  ) ,  is   an  active fire  सुरक्षा  measure , and a source of water provided in most urban , suburban and rural areas with  नगरपालिका  water service to enable  अग्निशमन  to tap  into  the municipal water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire .
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify for an insurance discount since firefighters  चाहिए  be able to more rapidly extinguish a fire on the insured property .
The  अवधारणा  of fire plugs dates to at least the 17th century .
This was a time when firefighters responding  to  a call would  खुदाई  down to the wooden water mains and hastily bore a hole to secure water  to  fight fires  .
The water would fill  the  hole creating a temporary  खूब  , and be transported from the well to the fire  by  bucket brigades or , later , by hand-pumped fire engines .
The holes were then plugged with stoppers , normally redwood , which over time came to be known as fire plugs .
The location of the plug would often be recorded  or  marked so that it could  be  reused in future fires .
This is the source of the  colloquial   पद  fire plug still used for fire hydrants today .
After the Great Fire of London  in  1666  ,   the  city installed water mains with holes drilled at intervals  ,  equipped with  उठते   ,  allowing an access point to the wooden fire  plugs  from street level .
The  आविष्कार  of a  post-  or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally credited to Frederick Graff Sr. , Chief Engineer of the Philadelphia Water Works around the year 1801 .
It had a combination hose/faucet outlet and was of `` wet barrel '' design with the valve in the top .
It is  कहा  that Graff held the first patent for a fire hydrant , but this can not be verified because the patent office in Washington D.C. caught on fire  in  1836 destroying  अनेक  patent records from that period in the process .
The President  of  the Republic of South Africa is  the  head of state and head of government under South Africa 's Constitution .
From  1961  to 1994 , the head of state was called the State  अध्यक्ष  .
The President is  निर्वाचित  by members of the National Assembly ,  the  lower house of Parliament , and is  प्रायः  the leader of the largest party , which has  महरूम  the African National  कॉंग्रेस  since the first non-racial elections were held on 27  अप्रैल  1994 .
The role was originally founded to  be  distinct from the now defunct role of prime minister , but the two roles were merged in the 1983 constitution which specified a four-year term of office .
The 1993 and later constitutions limits the president 's time in office to two five-year terms .
The first President to be elected under the new constitution was Nelson Mandela , and  the  incumbent president is Jacob  zuma  .
Under the interim Constitution ( valid from 1994 to 1996 ) , there was a Government of National Unity  ,  in which an MP from the largest opposition party was entitled  to  a position as Deputy  अध्यक्ष  .
Along with Thabo Mbeki , the last State President ,  f.w  . De Klerk also served as Deputy President , in his  क्षमता  as the  नेता  of the National Party which was the second-largest party  in  the  नई  Parliament .
But De Klerk later resigned and went into opposition with his party .
A voluntary coalition government continues to exist under the new constitution ( adopted in 1996 ) , although  वहीँ  have been no appointments of opposition politicians to  the  post of deputy president  .
Special  शिक्षा  or special needs education is the education of students with special needs in a way that addresses the students ' individual differences and needs .
Ideally , this process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of teaching procedures , adapted equipment and materials , accessible settings , and  अन्य  interventions designed to help learners with special needs achieve a higher level of personal self-sufficiency and success in school and community than would be available if the student  यहूद  only given access to  a  typical  कक्षा  education .
Common special needs  शामिल  challenges with learning , communication challenges , emotional and  behavioral  disorders ,  शारीरिक  disabilities , and developmental  विकार  .
Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit from additional  शैक्षणिक  services such as different approaches to teaching , use of technology , a specifically adapted teaching area , or resource room .
Intellectual giftedness is a  अंतर  in learning and can also benefit from specialized teaching techniques or different educational  कार्यक्रम  , but the term `` special education '' is generally used to specifically indicate instruction of students whose special needs reduce their ability to learn independently or in an ordinary classroom , and gifted education is handled separately .
In most developed  देशों  , educators are modifying teaching methods and environments so that  the  maximum number of students  हैं  served in general education environments .
Special education in developed countries is  प्रायः  regarded less as  a  `` place '' and more as `` a range of services , available in every school . ''
Integration can reduce  सोशल  stigmas and improve academic achievement for many students  .
The opposite of special education is general education .
General education is the standard curriculum presented with standard teaching  विधि  and without additional supports .
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born August 12 , 1930 , as Schwartz György ) is a Hungarian-American business magnate , investor , and philanthropist .
He is the chairman of Soros Fund Management .
Soros supports progressive-liberal causes .
He is known as ``  the  Man Who Broke the Bank of England `` because of his in investment profits during the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis .
Between 1979 and 2011  ,  Soros gave away over $ 8 billion to human rights , public  स्वास्थ्य  , and  शिक्षा  causes  .
He  निभाई  a significant role in the peaceful  परिवर्तन  from communism to  पूंजीवाद  in Hungary ( 1984–89 ) and provided one of Europe 's largest higher education  endowments  to Central European University in Budapest .
Soros is also the chairman of the Open Society Institute .
An actor portraying Alexander Graham Bell speaking into an early model telephone .
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by many individuals , the history of  जिससे  involves a collection of claims and counterclaims .
The development of the modern electrical telephone involved an array of lawsuits founded upon the patent claims of several individuals  और  numerous companies .
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898 , from conception of the idea of an electric voice-transmission device , to failed attempts to use `` make-and-break '' current , to successful experiments with electromagnetic telephones by Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Watson , and finally to commercially successful telephones in the late 19th century .
A Master of Fine Arts ( MFA ,  m.f.a  . ) is a  ग्रैजुएट  degree typically requiring  2–3  years of  postgraduate   पढ़ाई  beyond the bachelor 's degree ( BFA  )  , although the term of study will vary by country or by university .
The MFA is  a  creative degree usually awarded  as  a terminal  उपाधि  in visual arts , creative writing , filmmaking , dance , or theatre  और  other performing arts .
Coursework is primarily  of  an applied or performing nature with the program often culminating in a major work or performance .
निपुण   of  Fine Arts programs  have  generally required a bachelor 's degree prior to admission , but many do not require that  the  undergraduate major  be  the same as the MFA field of study .
The most important admissions requirement has often been a sample portfolio or a performance audition  .
the  Master of Fine Arts differs from the Master of Arts in that the MFA , while an academic program , centers around practice in the particular field ,  whereas  programs leading to the MA usually center on the scholarly , academic , or critical study of the field .
Additionally , in the United States , an MFA  is  recognized  as  a terminal degree for  practitioners  of Visual Art , Design , Dance ,  थिएटर  , Film/Video , New Media , and Creative Writing - meaning that it is  माना   to  be the highest degree in  इसके  field , and  is  used as a minimum qualification to be able to apply to become a  full-time  Professor teaching  at  the University level in these  disciplines   .
There are exceptions  to  this standard in the  कला  , notably in the case  of   म्यूज़िक  performance , where the MFA is not seen as a terminal degree in the context of the more standardized DMA degree .
It is also critical to note that  in  the interest of extending the connection between creative production and continued academic research , some universities have established practice-based Ph.D programs in fields such as creative writing , visual arts  ,  new media , design and  थिएटर  .
While this has had an  प्रभाव  in  रचनात्मक   लिखने  , and to a lesser extent in design and new media ,  the   influx  of graduates from practice-based  phd  programs has not  appreciably  changed the standard for the MFA as the terminal degree in most  कला  disciplines yet .
This is an ongoing contentious topic , and is the frequent subject of academic panels , especially at the annual College Art Association conference .
the  CAA 2008 guidelines regarding the MFA strongly re-affirms that  the  PhD is not required as a  टर्मिनल  degree in the visual arts .
the  atomic bombings of the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan were conducted by the United States during the final stages of World War II in 1945  .
The two events are the only use of nuclear weapons  in  war to date  .
Following a firebombing campaign that destroyed  अनेक  Japanese cities , the Allies prepared for a costly invasion of Japan .
The war in  यूरोपीय  ended  जब  Nazi Germany signed its instrument of surrender on 8 May , but the Pacific War continued .
Together with the United Kingdom  और  the Republic of China , the United  राज्य  called  लिये  a surrender of Japan in the Potsdam Declaration on 26 July 1945 , threatening Japan with `` prompt and utter destruction  ''  .
The Japanese  सरकारी  ignored this ultimatum , and the United States deployed two nuclear weapons developed by  the   मैनहटन   प्रोजेक्ट  .
American airmen dropped Little Boy on the  नगर  of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945 , followed  by  Fat Man over Nagasaki on 9 August .
Within the  पहला   दो   to  four months of the bombings , the acute effects killed 90,000–166,000 people in Hiroshima and 60,000–80,000 in Nagasaki  ,  with roughly  हाफ  of the deaths in each city occurring  on  the first day .
the  Hiroshima prefecture health department estimated that , of the people who died on the day of the explosion , 60 % died from flash or flame  burns  , 30 %  इससे  falling debris  और  10  %  from other causes .
During the following months , large numbers died from the effect of burns , radiation sickness , and other injuries , compounded by illness .
In a US estimate of the total immediate and short term cause of death , 15–20 % died from radiation sickness , 20–30 % from burns , and 50–60 % from other injuries , compounded by  बीमारी  .
In both cities , most of the  मुर्दे  were civilians , although Hiroshima had a sizeable garrison .
On 15 August , six days after the bombing of Nagasaki , Japan announced its surrender to the Allies , signing  the  Instrument of Surrender on 2 September , officially ending World War II .
The bombings led , in part , to post-war Japan 's adopting Three Non-Nuclear Principles , forbidding the nation from  नाभिकीय  armament .
The role of the bombings in  जापानी  's surrender and their ethical justification are still  debated  .
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ( ; 2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948 ) , commonly known as Mahatma  गांधी  , was the  preeminent  leader of Indian nationalism  in  British-ruled India .
Employing non-violent civil disobedience  ,   गांधी  led India to independence and inspired movements for non-violence , civil rights and freedom  आरपार  the world .
The son of a senior government official , Gandhi was born and raised in a  हिन्दू  Bania community  in  coastal Gujarat ,  और   प्रशिक्षित  in law  in  London .
Gandhi became famous by fighting for the civil rights of Muslim and Hindu  इंडियंस  in South Africa , using new techniques of non-violent civil disobedience that  he  developed .
Returning to India in 1915 , he set about organising peasants to protest excessive land-taxes .
A lifelong opponent of ``  सांप्रदायिकता  `` ( i.e . basing  राजनीती   on  religion )  he  reached out widely to  सब  religious groups .
he   became   a   नेता  of Muslims protesting the declining  औकात  of the Caliphate .
Assuming leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921 ,  गांधी  led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty , expanding women 's rights , building religious and ethnic  सौहार्द  , ending untouchability ,  increasing  economic self-reliance , and above all for achieving  स्वराज  —the independence of India from British domination .
Gandhi  led  Indians in protesting the national salt tax with  the  Dandi Salt March in 1930 , and later in demanding the British to immediately  छोड़ो  India in  1942  , during World War II .
He was imprisoned  लिये  that and for  numerous  other  राजनैतिक  offenses over the years .
Gandhi sought to practice non-violence and truth in all situations , and advocated that others do the same .
He saw the villages as the core of the  सच्चा  India and promoted self-sufficiency ;  he  did not support the industrialization programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru .
He lived modestly in a self-sufficient residential community and wore the traditional Indian dhoti and shawl , woven with yarn he had hand spun on a charkha .
His  मुख्य  political  दुश्मन  in Britain  थी  Winston Churchill , who ridiculed him as a  ``  half-naked fakir  .  ''
He was a  समर्पित  vegetarian , and undertook long fasts as means of both self-purification  और  political mobilization .
In his last year , unhappy at the partition of India  ,  Gandhi worked to stop the carnage between Muslims , Hindus and Sikhs that raged in the border area between India and Pakistan .
He  थी  assassinated on 30 January 1948 by Nathuram Godse who thought Gandhi was too sympathetic to India 's Muslims .
30 January is observed as Martyrs ' Day in India .
The honorific Mahatma  (  `` Great Soul '' ) was applied to him by 1914 .
In India he was also called Bapu ( `` Father '' )  .
he  is known in India as the Father of the Nation ;  उसके  birthday , 2 October , is commemorated there  as  Gandhi Jayanti , a national holiday , and world-wide as the International Day of Non-Violence .
Gandhi 's philosophy was not theoretical but one of pragmatism ,  कि  is , practicing his principles in the moment .
Asked to  दे   a  message to  the  people , he would respond , `` My life is my message . ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23 , ca . 1904 – May 10 ,  1977  ) , born Lucille  fay  LeSueur , was an American actress in film , television and theatre .
Starting as a dancer in  traveling  theatrical companies before  debuting  on Broadway , Crawford was signed to a motion picture contract by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925 .
Initially frustrated  by  the size and quality of her parts , Crawford began a campaign of self-publicity  और  became nationally known  as  a flapper by the end of the 1920s .
In the 1930s , Crawford 's fame rivaled  ,  and later outlasted , MGM colleagues  norma  Shearer and Greta Garbo .
Crawford often played hardworking young women who find romance and financial  कामयाबी  .
These `` rags-to-riches '' stories were  खूब  received by Depression -era audiences and were popular with women .
Crawford became one of Hollywood  's  most prominent movie  सितारों  and one of the highest paid women in the United States  ,  but her  films  began losing money and by the end of the 1930s she was labeled `` box office  ज़हर  '' .
After  an  absence of nearly  दो  years from the screen , Crawford staged a comeback by starring in Mildred Pierce ( 1945 ) ,  लिये  which she won the Academy Award for  बेहतरीन  Actress .
In 1955 , she became involved with the  pepsi-cola  Company  through   उसके  marriage to company Chairman Alfred Steele .
After his death  in  1959 ,  क्रॉफर्ड  was elected to  भरण  his  रिक्ति  on the board of directors but was forcibly retired in 1973 .
She continued acting in film and television regularly through the 1960s , when her performances became fewer ;  बाद  the release of the British horror film  trog   in  1970 , Crawford retired from the screen  .
Following a public appearance in 1974 , after which unflattering photographs were  प्रकाशित  , Crawford  withdrew  from public life and became increasingly reclusive until her death  in  1977 .
Crawford  शादीशुदा   चार  times .
Her first three  विवाह  ended in divorce ; the last ended with the death of husband Alfred Steele .
She adopted  पाँच  children , one of whom was reclaimed by his birth mother  .
क्रॉफर्ड  's relationships with her two  पुरानी  children , Christina and Christopher , were acrimonious .
Crawford disinherited the two  और  , after Crawford 's death , Christina wrote  a  `` tell-all ''  संस्मरण  , Mommie Dearest , in which she alleged a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional  गाली  perpetrated by Crawford .
She was voted the  दसवाँ  greatest female star in the history of American cinema by the American Film Institute .
1910 Buick Tonneau without  tonneau  cover
1903  Ford Model  a  rear-door Tonneau
1903 Lanchester rear-door Tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a  मुश्किल  or soft cover used to protect  unoccupied  passenger seats in a convertible or roadster , or the cargo bed in a pickup truck .
Hard tonneau  कवर   खोलें  by a hinging  or  folding mechanism while soft  कवर  open by rolling up  .
The tonneau cover  is  used to  छिपाते  cargo .
When the cover is pulled out , it keeps items out of  the  sun and provides extra security by  keeping  personal items out of sight , as well as shielding the driver from view .
Twitter is an online social networking service and microblogging service that enables its users to send and read  text-based  messages  of   up   to  140 characters , known as `` tweets '' .
Twitter was  निर्मित  in March 2006 by Jack  dorsey  and by July , the social  नेटवर्किंग  site was launched .
The service rapidly gained worldwide popularity , with over 500 million registered users as of 2012 , generating over 340 million tweets daily and handling over  1.6  billion search queries per day .
Since its launch , Twitter has become one of the ten most visited websites on the Internet , and has been described as `` the SMS of the Internet . ''
Unregistered users can read tweets , while registered users can post tweets through the website  इंटरफ़ेस  , SMS , or a range of apps for mobile devices .
Twitter Inc. is based in San Francisco , with additional servers and offices in New  यॉर्क  City  ,  Boston , and San Antonio .
The Hangover is a 2009 American comedy film , co-produced and directed by Todd Phillips and written by Jon Lucas and  स्कॉट  Moore .
It is the first film  of  The Hangover franchise .The film stars  ब्राडली  Cooper , Ed Helms , Zach Galifianakis , Heather Graham , Justin Bartha , and Jeffrey Tambor .
The Hangover tells the story of Phil Wenneck , Stu Price  और  Alan Garner , who travel to Las Vegas for a bachelor party to celebrate their friend Doug  billings  ' impending marriage .
However , Phil  ,  Stu and Alan have no  मेमोरी  of the previous night 's events and must find Doug  पहले  the wedding can take place .
Lucas and Moore wrote the script after executive producer Chris Bender 's friend disappeared and had a large bill  बाद  being sent to a strip  क्लबों  .
After Lucas and Moore sold it to the studio for $ 2 million , Philips and Jeremy Garelick rewrote the script to include a tiger as well as a subplot involving a baby and a police cruiser , and also including  boxer  Mike Tyson .
फिल्मांकन  took place in Nevada for 15 days , and during filming , the three main actors ( Cooper , Helms and Galifianakis ) formed a friendship .
The Hangover was released on June 5 , 2009 , becoming a critical and commercial success .
it  became the  tenth-highest-grossing   फिल्मी  of 2009 , with a worldwide gross of over US $  467  million .
Critics praised the film 's comedic approach but criticized it for its vulgarity .
The film won the  सुनहरी  Globe Award for  बेहतरीन  Motion Picture –  musical  or Comedy , and received multiple other accolades .
It is the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 in the world  ,  as well as the second highest-grossing R-rated comedy  कभी  in the United States , surpassing a record previously held by Beverly Hills Cop  लिये  almost 25 years and later being surpassed by Ted in 2012 .
Out of all R-rated films  ,  it is the third highest-grossing ever in the U.S. , behind only  the  Passion  of  the Christ and The Matrix Reloaded .
A sequel , The Hangover Part II , was released in 2011 , and a third and final film , The Hangover Part  iii  , is set  लिये  release in 2013 .
Events involving meiosis , showing chromosomal crossover
Meiosis  (  ) is a  खास  type of cell division necessary for sexual reproduction in eukaryotes .
The cells produced by  meiosis  are gametes  or  spores .
In many organisms , including all animals and land plants ( but not some other  समूह  such as  fungi  ) , gametes are called sperm and egg cells .
Whilst the process  of  meiosis bears a number  of  similarities  साथ   the  'life-cycle ' cell division process of mitosis  ,  it differs in two  महत्वपूर्ण  respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination which  shuffles   the   जीनों  producing a different genetic combination in each gamete , compared with the co-existence of each of the  दो  separate pairs of each chromosome ( one received from each parent ) in  प्रत्येक  cell which results  इससे  mitosis .
the outcome of meiosis is  potentially  four ( genetically unique ) haploid cells  ,  compared  साथ  the two  (  genetically identical )  द्विगुणित  cells produced from mitosis .
Meiosis begins with one diploid cell containing two copies of each chromosome  —one  from the organism  's  mother and one from its father .
The cell divides twice , potentially producing up to four haploid cells containing  एक  copy of each chromosome .
( `` Potentially '' because in some cases , such as the formation of  oocytes  in mammals , only  एक   of  the possible four  अगुणित  cells survives . )
In  पशु  the haploid cell  resulting  from meiosis is a male or  मादा   gamete  .
Each of the resulting chromosomes in the gamete cells is  a  unique mixture of maternal and paternal DNA , resulting in offspring that are genetically distinct from either parent .
This gives rise to genetic diversity in  sexually  reproducing populations .
This genetic diversity can provide the  विभिन्नता  of physical and behavioural attributes  (  phenotypes ) upon which natural selection can act ,  लकिन  , as described below in Section 6 ,  उत्पत्ति  and function of meiosis , the genetic diversity may be largely a  by-product  of the homologous recombination that is primarily employed for its DNA repair function during meiosis .
It is also noteworthy that during meiosis , specific genes are more highly transcribed  ,  and these are called the meiome , the term used in functional genomics for the meiotic transcriptome .
Meiosis is a key  विशेषता  for  सब  sexually reproducing eukaryotes in which homologous chromosome pairing , synapse  और  recombination occur .
in  addition to strong meiotic stage-specific expression of mRNA ( the  meiome  )  ,  however , there are also  pervasive  translational controls ( e.g  .  selective usage of preformed mRNA ) , regulating the ultimate meiotic  stage-specific  protein expression of genes during meiosis .
Thus , both the  meiome   और  translational controls determine  the  broad restructuring of meiotic cells  needed  to carry  आउट  meiosis .
Prior to the meiosis process the cell  's  chromosomes are duplicated by a round of DNA replication , creating from the maternal and paternal versions of  प्रत्येक  chromosome ( homologs ) two exact copies , sister chromatids , attached at the centromere region .
In the beginning of meiosis the maternal and paternal homologs pair to each other .
Then they typically exchange parts by homologous  recombination   अग्रणी  to  crossovers  of DNA between the  मातृ  and paternal versions  of  the chromosome .
Spindle fibers bind to the centromeres of each pair of homologs and arrange the pairs at the spindle equator .
Then the fibers pull the recombined homologs to opposite  डंडे  of the cell .
As  the  chromosomes move away from the center the cell divides into  दो  daughter cells , each containing a haploid number of chromosomes composed of two chromatids .
After the recombined maternal and paternal homologs  have  separated into the  दो  daughter cells , a  दूसरी  round of cell division occurs .
There meiosis ends  as  the two sister chromatids  बनाना  up  प्रत्येक  homolog are separated  और   मूव  into one of the four  resulting  gamete cells .
upon  fertilization , for example when a  शुक्राणु  enters an egg cell , two gamete cells produced by  meiosis  fuse  .
The gamete from the mother  और  the gamete from the father each  योगदान  one half of the set of chromosomes that make up the new offspring 's genome .
Meiosis uses many of the same mechanisms as  समसूत्रण  , a  प्रकार  of cell division used by eukaryotes  जैसे  plants and animals to split one cell into two identical  बेटी  cells .
In all plants and in many  protists   meiosis  results in the  गठन  of spores : haploid cells that can divide vegetatively without undergoing fertilization .
Boxing ( pugilism , prize  लड़  , the sweet science or in Greek pygmachia ) is a martial  आर्ट  and combat sport in which two people engage in a contest of  शक्ति  , speed , reflexes ,  सहनशीलता  and will by throwing punches with gloved hands .
Amateur boxing is an Olympic and Commonwealth sport and is a common fixture in most of the major international games -  it  also has its own World Championships .
Boxing is supervised by a referee  over  a  श्रेणी  of one- to three-minute intervals called rounds .
The result is  decided  when an opponent is deemed incapable to continue by a referee , is disqualified for breaking a rule , resigns by throwing  in  a towel , or is  सुनाया  the winner  or  loser based on the judges ' scorecards at  the  end  of  the contest .
The birth hour of boxing  as  a sport may be its acceptance  by  the ancient Greeks  as  an Olympic  खेल  as early as 688 BC .
Boxing  विकसित  from  16th-  and 18th-century prizefights , largely in  ग्रेट  Britain , to the forerunner of  आधुनिक  boxing  in  the mid-19th century , again initially in Great  ब्रिटेन  and later in the United States .
In  2004  , ESPN  क्रमित  boxing as the most difficult sport in the world .
Agreement or concord happens when a word changes form depending on the other words to which it relates .
It is an  उदाहरण  of inflection , and usually involves making the value of  कुछ  grammatical category ( such as gender or person ) `` agree '' between  अलग   शब्द   or  parts of the sentence .
For example , in Standard English , one may say I am or he is , but not `` I is '' or `` he am '' .
This  is  because the grammar of the language requires that the verb and  इसके  subject agree in person .
The pronouns I and he  हैं  first and third person respectively , as are the verb forms am and is  .
The verb form must be  चयनित  so that it has the same  व्यक्ति  as the subject .
The agreement  आधारित  on overt grammatical categories as above is formal agreement  ,   in   कंट्रास्ट  to notional agreement  ,  which is based  on  meaning .
For instance  ,  the phrase The United States is treated as singular for purposes of agreement , even though  it  is formally plural .
This is a list of  स्थान  below mean sea level that are on land  .
Places in  tunnels  , mines , basements , dug holes (  भी  with open sky ) , under water , under  बर्फ  , or existing temporarily as a result of ebbing of sea tide etc . are not included .
All figures are in meters below sea level:
Debbie Macomber (  born  October 22 , 1948  in  Yakima ,  वॉशिंगटन  ) is a best-selling  अमरीकी  author of over 150 romance novels and contemporary women 's fiction .
Over 140 million copies of her books are in print throughout the world , and four have become made-for-TV-movies .
Macomber was the inaugural winner  of  the fan-voted  quill  Award for romance in 2005 and has  महरूम  awarded both a Romance Writers of America RITA and a lifetime achievement  पुरस्कार  by  the  Romance  लेखक  of America .
Catonsville is a census-designated place  (   cdp   )  in Baltimore County , Maryland , United States .
The population was 41,567  at  the 2010 census .
The community lies to the west  of   बाल्टीमोर  along the city 's border  .
Catonsville is the  घर  of  the  University of Maryland , Baltimore County ( UMBC ) , a public research  विश्वविद्यालयों  with over 12,000 students .
A lawyer , according to Black 's Law Dictionary , is `` a person learned  in   the  law  ;  as an attorney , counsel  or  solicitor ; a person who is practicing law . ''
Law is the system of rules of conduct established by the sovereign government of a society to correct wrongs , maintain the stability of  राजनैतिक  and  सोशल  authority , and deliver justice  .
Working as a lawyer involves the practical  अनुप्रयोग  of abstract legal theories and  ज्ञान  to solve specific individualized problems , or to advance the interests of those who retain ( i.e. , hire ) lawyers to perform legal services .
The role of  the  lawyer varies significantly across  विधिक  jurisdictions , and so  it  can be treated here in only  the  most general terms .
Vector Marketing is the  घरेलू  sales arm of  cutco  Corporation , an Olean ,  नई  York based cutlery manufacturer .
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a United States federal law requiring covered employers to provide employees job-protected and unpaid leave for qualified medical and family reasons .
Qualified  चिकित्सा  and family reasons include : personal or family illness  ,  family military leave , pregnancy , adoption , or the foster care placement of a child .
The  fmla   is  administered by the Wage and Hour  प्रभाग  of the United States Department of Labor .
The bill was a major part of President Bill Clinton 's agenda  in  his first term  .
President Clinton signed the bill  into  law on February 5 ,  1993  ( ; 29 U.S.C . sec . 2601 ; 29 CFR 825 ) and it took  प्रभाव  on August 5 , 1993 , six months later .
The FMLA was intended `` to balance the demands of the workplace with the needs  of  families .  ''
The Act allows eligible employees to take up to 12 work weeks of  unpaid  leave during any 12-month period to attend to the serious health condition of the employee , parent , spouse or child , or for pregnancy or care of a newborn child , or for adoption or foster care of a child .
In order to  be   योग्य  for FMLA leave , an employee must have been at the business at  तनिक  12  महीने  , and worked at least  1,250  hours over the past 12 months , and work at  a  location where the company employs 50 or more  कर्मचारी  within  75  miles .
The FMLA covers both public- and private-sector  कर्मचारी  , but certain categories of  कर्मचारी  are excluded , including elected officials and their personal staff members .
The Vietnam War ( ) was a Cold War -era military  विरोध   कि  occurred in Vietnam , Laos , and Cambodia from 1 November 1955 to the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975 .
This war followed  the  First Indochina War and was fought between North Vietnam , supported by its  कम्युनिस्ट   allies   ,  and the government of  दक्षिण  Vietnam  ,  supported by the United States and other anti-communist countries .
The Viet Cong ( also known as the National  मुक्ति  Front , or NLF ) , a lightly  हथियारबंद  South Vietnamese communist common front directed by the North ,  largely   लड़ा  a guerrilla war against anti-communist  शक्तियां   in   the  region .
the  Vietnam People 's  फौज  ( North Vietnamese Army ) engaged in a more conventional war , at times committing large units into  बैटल  .
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on  एयर  superiority and overwhelming firepower to conduct search and destroy operations ,  involving  ground forces , artillery  ,  and airstrikes  .
The U.S. government viewed involvement  in  the war as a way to prevent a communist takeover of South  वियतनाम  as part of their wider  रणनीति  of containment  .
The  उत्तर  Vietnamese government and Viet Cong were fighting to reunify Vietnam under communist rule .
वे  viewed the conflict  as   a  colonial war , fought  initially  against France  ,  backed by the U.S. , and later against South Vietnam , which it regarded  as  a U.S. puppet state .
American military advisors  arrived  in what was then  फ्रेंच  Indochina beginning in 1950 .
u.S.  involvement escalated in the early 1960s , with troop levels tripling  in  1961 and tripling again in 1962 .
U.S. combat units were deployed beginning in 1965 .
Operations spanned international borders , with Laos  और  Cambodia heavily bombed .
American involvement in the war peaked in 1968 , at the time of the Tet Offensive .
After this ,  u.S.  ground forces were gradually withdrawn as part of a policy known as Vietnamization .
Despite the Paris Peace Accords , signed by all parties in January 1973 , fighting continued .
U.S. military involvement ended on 15 August 1973 as  a  result of the Case–Church Amendment passed by the  u.S.  Congress  .
The capture of Saigon by the Vietnam People 's Army in April 1975 marked the end of the  युद्ध  , and  उत्तर  and South Vietnam  यहूद  reunified the following  साल  .
the   युद्ध  exacted a huge human cost in terms of fatalities ( see Vietnam War casualties )  .
Estimates of the number of Vietnamese soldiers and civilians killed vary  इससे  800,000 to 3.1 million .
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians  ,  20,000–200,000 Laotians , and 58,220 U.S. service members also died in the conflict .
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska photographed from the International Space Station , May 2006 .
Ash plumes reached a height of  19  km during the climactic eruption at  माउंट  Pinatubo  ,  Philippines  in  1991 .
A volcano is an opening , or rupture , in a planet 's surface or crust , which allows hot magma , volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the  सतह  .
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic plates are diverging or converging .
A mid-oceanic ridge , for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge , has examples of volcanoes caused  by   अपसारी  tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together .
By contrast , volcanoes are usually not created where two tectonic  प्लेटों  slide past one another .
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the interiors of plates , e.g. , in the East African Rift  ,  the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the  रिओ  Grande Rift in North America .
This type of  volcanism  falls under  the   छतरियाँ  of ``  थाली  hypothesis '' volcanism .
Volcanism away from  थाली  boundaries has also been explained as mantle plumes .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example Hawaii , are  postulated  to arise  इससे  upwelling  diapirs  with magma from the core–mantle  boundary   ,  3,000  km  deep in the  धरती  .
erupting  volcanoes  can  pose many hazards , not only in the immediate vicinity of the eruption .
Volcanic ash can be a threat to aircraft  ,  in particular those with jet engines where ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature  .
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however , they also absorb heat  radiated  up from the Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically ,  so-called  volcanic  सर्दियों  have caused  अनर्थकारी  famines .
A  गहन  pothole on New York City 's Second Avenue
A pothole ( sometimes called a kettle and known in parts of  the  Western United States as a chuckhole )  is  a type of disruption in the surface of a  roadway  where a portion of the road material has broken away ,  leaving  a hole .
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ,  भी   ज्ञात  as hypernephroma  )  is a kidney cancer that originates in the lining of  the   proximal  convoluted tubule , the very small tubes in the kidney  कि  transport GF ( glomerular filtrate ) from the glomerulus to the  descending  limb of the nephron .
RCC is the most common type of kidney cancer in adults , responsible for approximately 80 % of cases .
It is also known to be the most lethal  of  all the genitourinary tumors .
Initial treatment is most commonly a radical or partial nephrectomy and remains the mainstay of curative treatment .
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma , the 5-year survival rate is 60-70 % , but this is lowered considerably where metastases have spread .
It is  अपेक्षाकृत  resistant to  विकिरण  therapy and chemotherapy , although some cases respond to immunotherapy .
targeted  cancer therapies such as sunitinib , temsirolimus , bevacizumab , interferon-alpha , and  sorafenib  have improved the outlook for RCC .
Estée Lauder Companies , Inc. is a  निर्माता  and marketer of prestige  skincare   ,  makeup , fragrance and hair care  उत्पाद   .
The company has its headquarters in Midtown Manhattan , New York City .
The peritoneum ( )  is  the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity or the coelom —it covers most of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in  amniotes  and some invertebrates ( annelids , for instance ) .
It is composed of a layer of mesothelium supported by a thin layer of connective tissue .
The peritoneum both supports the abdominal organs and serves as a conduit for their blood  और  lymph vessels and  nerves  .
The abdominal cavity ( the  स्पेस  bounded by the  vertebrae  , abdominal muscles , diaphragm and pelvic floor ) should not be confused with the intraperitoneal space ( located within the abdominal cavity , but wrapped in peritoneum ) .
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called ``  intraperitoneal  '' ( e.g .  the  stomach )  ,  the structures in the abdominal  गुहा  that  हैं  located behind the intraperitoneal space are called `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g . the kidneys )  ,  and those structures below the intraperitoneal space  हैं  called `` subperitoneal '' or  ``  infraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the bladder ) .
Modern 2.5 '' SSD used in consumer laptops and desktop computers .
DDR SDRAM based SSD .
Max and .
PCI attached IO Accelerator SSD
PCI-E , DRAM , and NAND  आधारित  SSD .
It uses an external power supply to make the DRAM non-volatile .
A solid-state drive  (  SSD ) ( also known  as  a solid-state disk or electronic disk  ,  though it contains no actual `` disk '' of any kind ) is a  आंकड़ा  storage device  using  integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently .
SSD technology  उपयोग  electronic interfaces compatible  साथ  traditional block input/output ( I/O ) hard disk drives .
ssds  have no moving  mechanical  components , which distinguish them from traditional electromechanical magnetic disks such as hard disk drives ( HDDs ) or floppy disks , which contain spinning disks and movable read/write heads .
Compared with electromechanical disks , SSDs are typically less susceptible to physical shock , much quieter , have lower access time  ,  and less  विलंबता  .
However , while the price of SSDs  रै  continued to decline in 2012 , SSDs are still about 7 to 8 times more expensive per unit of storage than HDDs .
Many SSDs use I/O interfaces developed for hard  डिस्क   ड्राइव  , thus permitting simple replacement in  आम  applications .
, most SSDs use  nand-based  flash memory , which retains data without power  .
For applications requiring fast access , but not necessarily data persistence after power loss , SSDs may  be  constructed from random-access memory ( RAM ) .
Such devices  may  employ separate power sources  ,  such  as  batteries , to maintain data after power  घाटा  .
संकर  drives or solid state  संकर  drives (  sshd  ) combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in  the   वही  unit  ,  containing a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data .
These devices may  प्रस्ताव  near-SSD performance for many applications .
Salmon roe (  बाएँ  ) and sturgeon  caviar  ( right ) served  साथ   माँ  of pearl caviar spoons to avoid tainting the taste of the caviar .
Ossetra caviar , salmon creme fraiche , potato shallot croquette , basil oil , egg whites and yolks
Caviar , according to the  खाना  and Agriculture Organization , is a product made from  salt-cured  fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae family .
The roe  can  be `` fresh  ''  (  non-pasteurized  ) or pasteurized , with pasteurization reducing its culinary and economic value .
Traditionally the term caviar refers only to roe from  जंगली  sturgeon in the Caspian and Black Seas ( Beluga , Ossetra  और  Sevruga caviars  )  .
depending  on the country , caviar may also be used to describe the  roe  of other fish such as salmon ,  steelhead  , trout , lumpfish , whitefish , and other species of sturgeon .
Caviar is considered  a  luxury delicacy and is eaten as a  गार्निश  or a  स्प्रेड  .
In 2012 , caviar  बेची  for $ 2,500 per pound , or  $  3,000 to $ 5,500 per kilo .
The SEC Network is  a  television syndication network featuring  सजीव  broadcasts  of  college football and  बास्केट  events from the Southeastern Conference .
It is owned  और   संचालित   by  ESPN Plus and is shown in more than 50 percent of households in the United States , mostly Southeastern United States markets .
The SEC Network typically airs in  the  noon eastern slot that was former home to the Raycom Sports SEC  खेल  of the week .
Games are shown locally  on  broadcast stations , regional sports networks  ,  as well  as  on ESPN GamePlan  ,  ESPN Full Court , and ESPN3.com .
The SEC Network is also available in Canada via Atlanta 's WPCH-TV .
The SEC Network uses the same on-screen graphics currently used by ESPN on ABC , a version of ESPN 's graphics package .
SEC Network 's football programming still uses a title safe area because most of its affiliates do not Letterbox  उनके  Standard Definition feeds , while ESPN 's television networks have allowed their  ग्राफिक्स  to abandon the title safe , but letterbox for SD  दर्शक  .
Starting with the SEC 2012  बास्केट  season , SEC Network 's graphics  have   महरूम  converted to a 16:9 Widescreen-only format .
This is also being used for the 2013  बास्केट  season , but  था  still adapted the former 4:3-safe graphics format for the 2012 SEC football season .
The 1990s , pronounced and  भी  known as `` the  nineteen-nineties  '' or abbreviated as ``  the  Nineties '' or `` the '90s '' , was a decade that began on January 1 , 1990 , and ended on December  31  , 1999 .
It was the 10th and last decade  of  the 20th century and the 100th and last decade of the 2nd millennium .
The decade is best known for the end  of  the Cold War  at  the beginning of the decade and the expansion and commercialization of the Internet during the second half of the decade .
In  much  of the West  the  1990s  is  remembered as a period  of  unprecedented  सलाम  and  समृद्धि  ,  हालांकि  many parts of the so-called Third World faced various problems including genocide , AIDS and new  or  continuing ethnic tensions and civil wars .
Culturally speaking the decade was  characterized  by the  वृद्धि  of multiculturalism and  वैकल्पिक  media  .
Movements such as grunge , the rave scene and hip hop spread around the world to young people during the decade , aided by  then-new   प्रौद्योगिकी  such as cable television and the Internet .
A combination of  कारकों  , including the mass mobilization of capital markets through neoliberalism , the beginning of the widespread proliferation of new media such as the Internet , and the  विच्छेद  of the Soviet Union led to a realignment and reconsolidation of economic and political power  आरपार  the world , and within  देशों  .
Income inequality among countries in  the  world rose sharply between the 1980s  और  the  mid-1990s  , before levelling off and then  गिरना  after 2000 .
नई  ethnic conflicts  उभरा  in Africa , the Balkans and the Caucasus , the former  दो   जिससे  led to the Rwandan genocide and Bosnian genocide  ,  respectively .
The  संयुक्त  States began its current military occupation of the Middle  ईस्ट  during the summer of 1990 with Desert Shield after it cut off a large portion of  the  world 's petroleum supply  .
Signs of any resolution of tensions between Israel and the Arab world remained elusive , though the Irish Troubles came to a standstill in 1998 with the Good Friday Agreement after 30 years of  हिंसा  .
The gray wolf or grey wolf ( Canis lupus ) is a species  of  canid native  to  the  wilderness  and remote  क्षेत्रों  of North America , Eurasia  ,  and North Africa .
It  is  the largest member of its family , with males averaging , and females .
It is  समान  in general appearance and proportions to a  जर्मनी   गड़रिये   ,  or sled dog , but has a larger head , narrower chest , longer legs , straighter  टेल  and bigger  पंजे  .
Its winter  फर  is long and bushy , and predominantly a  mottled  gray in colour , although nearly pure white  ,  red , or brown to black also  occur  .
Within the genus Canis , the  धूसर  wolf represents a more specialised and progressive form than its smaller cousins (  the  coyote and golden jackal ) , as demonstrated by its morphological adaptations to hunting  विशाल   शिकार  , its more gregarious nature and its highly advanced expressive behavior .
It  is  a social animal , travelling in nuclear families consisting of a mated pair , accompanied by the pair 's adult offspring .
The gray wolf is typically an apex  परभक्षी   throughout  its range , with only humans and tigers posing a serious threat to it .
It feeds primarily on large  ungulates  ,  हालांकि   it  also eats smaller animals , livestock  ,  carrion , and garbage  .
the  gray wolf is one of the world 's most well researched animals , with probably more books written about  it  than any other wildlife species .
It has a long history  of  association with humans , having been despised and hunted in most agricultural communities due to its attacks on livestock , while  conversely  being respected by some Native American tribes .
It is the sole  पूर्वज  of the dog , which was first domesticated in the Middle  ईस्ट   .
Although the fear  of  wolves is prevalent  in  many human societies , the majority of recorded attacks on people have been attributed to animals suffering from rabies .
Non-rabid wolves have attacked and  मारे  people , mainly children ,  लकिन  this is unusual , as wolves are relatively few ,  सजीव  away from people , and have been taught to  भय  humans by hunters  और   गड़रिये  .
Hunting and trapping has reduced the species ' range to , though its still relatively widespread  दायरा  and stable population means that the species is not threatened at a global level , and is therefore classified by the IUCN as Least Concern .
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization , characterised by an autocratic form of government and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe , Africa , and Asia .
The 500-year-old Roman Republic , which preceded it ,  था  been destabilized through a series of civil wars .
Several events marked the  परिवर्तन  from Republic to Empire , including Julius Caesar 's  नियुक्ति  as perpetual dictator (  44  BC ) ; the Battle  of  Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the  रोमन  Senate (  27  BC ) .
the  first two centuries of the  साम्राज्य  were a period  of   unprecedented  stability and prosperity known as the  pax  Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ) .
It reached its greatest  expanse  during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ) .
In  the   3rd  century , the Empire underwent a  संकट   कि  threatened its existence , but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian .
Christians rose  to  power in the 4th century , during which time a  प्रणाली  of dual  नियम  was developed  in  the Latin West and Greek East .
After the  पतन  of central government in the West in the 5th century ,  the  eastern  हाफ  continued as what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire .
Because of  the  Empire 's vast extent and long endurance ,  the  institutions and  संस्कृति   of  Rome  था  a profound and lasting influence on the development of language  ,  religion , architecture , philosophy ,  विधि  , and forms of government in the territory it governed , particularly Europe ,  और  by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world .
Education in  the  United States is mainly provided by the public sector , with control and funding coming  इससे  three levels  :  local  ,  state , and federal , in that order .
Child education is  अनिवार्य  , and there are also a large number and  चौड़ी  variety  of  higher education institutions throughout the country that one can choose to attend , both  सरेआम  and privately administered .
Public education is universally available .
School curricula , funding  ,  teaching , employment , and other policies are set through locally elected school boards with jurisdiction  over  school districts with many directives from state legislatures .
School districts are  प्रायः  separate from other local jurisdictions , with independent officials and budgets .
Educational standards and standardized testing decisions are usually made by state governments  .
The ages for compulsory education vary  by  state .
It begins from ages five to eight and  ends  from ages fourteen to eighteen .
Compulsory education requirements can generally  be  satisfied by educating children in public schools , state-certified private  स्कूलों  , or an approved home school program .
In most  पब्लिक  and private schools  ,  education is divided into three levels :  elementary  school  ,  middle  स्कूल  ( sometimes called junior high school ) , and  ऊँची  school ( sometimes referred to as secondary education )  .
In almost all schools at these levels , children are divided by age  समूह  into grades , ranging from kindergarten ( followed by first grade ) for the youngest children in elementary school , up to  बारहवीं   ग्रेड  , the final year of high school .
The exact age range of students in these  ग्रेड  levels varies slightly from area to area .
Post-secondary education  ,  better known  as  `` college `` in the United States  ,  is generally  governed  separately from the elementary and high school system , and is described  in  a separate section below .
Government supported , free public schools  लिये  all started being  स्थापित  after the revolution , and  विस्तारित  in the 19th century  ,  as the results of  प्रयत्न  of men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington .
By 1870 , all  राज्य  had free elementary schools , albeit only in urban centers .
As  the  20th century drew nearer , states started passing laws  to  make schooling compulsory , and by 1910 , 72 percent of children  attended  school .
Private  स्कूलों  continued to spread during this time , as well as colleges and—in the rural centers— land grant  कॉलेजों  .
The year of 1910 also saw the first  सच्चा  high schools .
During the rest of  the  20th  सदी  , educational efforts centered on reducing the inequality of the schooling system .
The  लैंडमार्क  Supreme Court case Brown v. Board of  शिक्षा  made the desegregation of elementary and high schools a national priority , while the Pell Grant program helped poor minorities gain access  to  college .
Special education was made into federal law in 1975  .
The  elementary  and Secondary Education Act of  1965  made standardized  परीक्षण  a requirement , and in 1983 , a commission was established to evaluate their results and propose a course of action .
The resulting  no  Child Left Behind  अधिनियम   of  2001 was controversial and its goals proved  to  be unrealistic .
A commission established in 2006 evaluated higher  शिक्षा  , but its recommendations have yet to  be  fully implemented .
Paul Bragg ( February 6  ,  1895  –  December 7 , 1976 ) , nutritionist , was a pioneer in America’s wellness movement .
Health spending per capita , in $ US PPP-adjusted , with the US and Canada compared amongst other first world nations .
Comparison of the health care systems in Canada and the United States are often made by government , public health  और  public policy analysts .
The  दो  countries had similar health care systems before  कनाडा  reformed its system in the 1960s and 1970s .
The United States spends much more money on health  परवाह  than Canada , on  दोनो  a per-capita  आधार  and as  a  percentage of GDP .
in  2006 , per-capita spending for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP on health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In 2006 , 70 % of  स्वास्थ्य  care spending in Canada was  financed  by government , versus 46 % in the United States .
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending , and U.S.  सरकारी  expenditure on health care  थी  just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public and private ) though these  आंकडे  do n't take into account  जनसांख्यिकी  differences  .
Studies have come to different conclusions about the result of this disparity in spending .
a  2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed  चिकित्सा  journal  मिला  that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United  राज्य  , but differences are not consistent . ''
Life expectancy is  longer   in  Canada , and its infant mortality rate is lower  than   कि   of  the U.S. , but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences .
One commonly cited  तुलना   ,  the 2000 World Health  संगठन  's ratings of ``  overall  health service performance '' , which used a `` composite measure  of   उपलब्धि  in the  स्तर  of health , the distribution of health , the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '' , ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '' , or quality of service for individuals receiving treatment , as 1st , compared with 7th for Canada .
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US , simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different racial makeup and different obesity rates is likely not an effective  रास्ता  of determining  जिससे  healthcare system is superior .
The WHO 's study methods were criticized by  कुछ  analyses .
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care , assuming the population makeup is  समान  ,  a  recent report by the  congressional   शोध  Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons .
The sound source has now broken through the sound speed barrier , and is traveling at 1.4 times the speed of  ध्वनि   ,  ( Mach 1.4 ) .
चूंकि  the source  is  moving faster ( with a speed ) than the sound waves it creates , it actually leads the advancing wavefront  .
The sound source will pass by a stationary observer ( with a speed ) before the observer actually hears the sound it creates .
As a result , an observer  in  front of the source will detect
and an observer behind  the   सोर्स  .
A sonic boom produced by an aircraft moving at M=2.92 , calculated  इससे  the cone angle of 20 degrees .
An observer hears the boom when the shock wave , on the edges of the cone ,  crosses  his or her location .
Mach cone  कोण
A sonic boom  is  the sound associated with the shock waves created  by  an object traveling through the air faster than the speed of sound .
Sonic booms generate enormous amounts of sound  उर्जा  , sounding much like an explosion .
The crack of a supersonic bullet passing overhead is an example of a sonic boom in miniature  .
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an American late-night talk show hosted by Jay Leno that initially aired  इससे  May 25 , 1992 to May 29 , 2009  ,  and resumed  उत्पादन  on March 1 , 2010 .
The fourth incarnation of the Tonight Show franchise made  इसके  debut on May 25 , 1992 , three days following Johnny Carson 's retirement as  मेजबान  of the program .
the  program originates from  एनबीसी   studios  in Burbank , California , and is broadcast Monday through Friday at 11:35 PM in the Eastern and Pacific time zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain  समय  ) .
Unlike  कार्सन  or his predecessor  जोकर  Paar , Leno only once utilized a guest  मेजबान  ,  preferring  to  मेजबान  the series by himself .
on  April  26  , 1999  ,  the  दिखाएँ  began broadcasting  in  1080i HDTV  ,  becoming the first  अमरीकी  nightly talk show to be shot in high definition .
The show is shot in 16:9 aspect ratio  .
The series , which followed the same basic format as that  of  his predecessors ( an opening monologue followed by comedy routines , interviews and performances ) , ran until May 29 , 2009 , after which Leno was succeeded  by  Conan O'Brien .
NBC signed Leno to a new deal for a nightly talk show in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot  .
The primetime series , titled  the  Jay Leno Show , debuted on September 14 ,  2009  , following a similar format to the Leno incarnation of Tonight .
Neither O'Brien 's version of the program , which premiered June 1 , 2009 , nor The Jay Leno Show generated the ratings that NBC had expected .
The network decided to move a  सघन  30-minute version of Leno 's show to O'Brien 's time slot , and  o'brien   's  Tonight Show  a  half-hour later .
This  निर्णय   मिले   साथ  opposition from O'Brien , whose stint  on  The Tonight Show ended January 22 , 2010  ,  after which he began his own  बात  show on TBS  .
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno then began its second and current incarnation ,  the  sixth of the franchise , on March 1 , 2010 .
RFID chip next to a grain of rice .
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to transfer a coded identification number when queried by a reader device .
This small type is incorporated  in  consumer products , and implanted in pets , for identification purposes .
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is  the  wireless non-contact  उपयोग  of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data , for the purposes  of  automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects .
The tags contain electronically stored information .
Some tags are powered and read at short ranges ( a few meters ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use a local power source such as a battery , or else have no  बैटरी  but collect energy from the interrogating EM field , and then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e. , electromagnetic  विकिरण  at high frequencies )  .
Battery powered tags may operate at  सैंकड़ों  of meters  .
Unlike  a  bar code ,  the  tag does not necessarily need to be within line of sight of the reader , and may be embedded in the tracked object .
RFID tags are used in many industries  .
An RFID  टैग  attached to an automobile during production can be used  to   track  its progress through the assembly line .
Pharmaceuticals can  be  tracked through warehouses .
Livestock and pets may have tags injected , allowing  धनात्मक  identification of  the  animal .
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing ,  possessions  , or even  implanted  within people , the possibility of reading personally-linked information without  सहमति  has raised privacy concerns .
id  , ego and super-ego are the three parts  of  the psychic apparatus  पारिभाषित  in Sigmund Freud 's structural model of the  psyche  ; they are  the  three theoretical  constructs  in terms of whose  कार्यकलाप  and interaction mental life is described .
According to this model of the psyche ,  the   id  is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays  the  critical and moralizing role ; and the ego is the organized ,  यथार्थवादी  part that mediates between the desires of the id and the super-ego .
The super-ego  can  stop  तुम  from  doing  certain things that your id  may  want you to do .
Even though the model is structural and makes reference to an apparatus  ,  the id , ego and  super-ego  are functions of the mind rather than parts of the brain and do not  correspond   one-to-one  with actual somatic structures of  the  kind dealt with by neuroscience .
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage  in   the  development of Freud 's thought :  the   ``  structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` economic model '' and ``  topographical  model  ''  ) was first discussed  in  his 1920 essay `` Beyond the Pleasure Principle `` and  थी  formalized and elaborated upon three years later in  उसके  `` The Ego and the Id `` .
Freud  's  proposal was  बहकावे  by the ambiguity of the term `` unconscious  ``  and its many conflicting uses .
Air Force  rotc  emblem
The Air Force Reserve Officer  प्रशिक्षण  Corps ( AFROTC ) is one of the three primary commissioning sources for officers in the United States Air Force  ,  the other two being the United States  एयर  Force Academy ( USAFA  )  and Air Force Officer Training School  (  OTS ) .
A subordinate command of the Air University within the Air Education and Training Command ( AETC ) , AFROTC is  लकीर   अंतर्गत  the Jeanne  M.   holm  Center for Officer Accessions and Citizen Development at Maxwell AFB , Alabama .
The Holm Center , formerly known as the Air Force Officer Accession and Training  स्कूलों  ( AFOATS ) ,  retains  direct  जिम्मेदारी  for both AFROTC and OTS .
AFROTC is the largest and oldest  सोर्स  of commissioned officers for the U.S. Air Force  .
AFROTC 's  stated  mission is to produce  विशेषता  leaders for the U.S. Air Force .
AFROTC units are located on 144 college and university campuses  साथ  984 additional institutions of higher learning participating in cross-town  समझौतों  that allow their students to attend AFROTC classes at a nearby `` host '' college or university .
according  to AFOATS HQ , in  2006  , AFROTC commissioned 2,083 USAF  दूसरी  Lieutenants ,  साथ  AFROTC enrollment ranging from 23,605 in 1985 to  10,231  in 1993  ,  and around 13,000 enrolled today .
AFROTC units at colleges and universities  हैं  called  ``  detachments , '' and are typically headed by an active duty USAF officer in the rank of colonel or lieutenant colonel who functions as both the Detachment Commander for USAF purposes  और  with the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace Studies ( PAS ) within the institution  's  academic community .
Most colleges and universities will designate the AFROTC detachment  as  the  विभाग  of Aerospace Studies .
The PAS is assisted by three  to  four Assistant Professors of Aerospace Studies ( APAS ) , all active duty USAF officers  in  the ranks of major or  कप्तान  .
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior non-commissioned  अधिकारी  will typically provide military administrative support and are often augmented by one to two civilian staff support employees of the academic institution .
Within AFROTC detachments ,  the   विद्यार्थी  ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) are organized into wings , groups , squadrons , and flights , mirroring the USAF functional wing structure  .
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into two divisions : the General Military Course ( GMC )  consisting  of the first two years of training  ,  and the Professional Officer Course ( POC ) consisting of the last two years of  प्रशिक्षण  .
The AFROTC program is also divided into two training functions : the Academic Classroom Program ( Aerospace Studies classes ) and Cadet Activities ( i.e. , Leadership Laboratory ,  शारीरिक  Training , and other training ) .
पेपर  density ( also known as basis weight and grammage )  is  a  पद   प्रयुक्त  in the pulp and paper industry and  भी  for fabric industry to denote a measure of mass of the product per unit of area for a type of fabric ,  पेपर  or paperboard .
The term `` density  ''  is not used in its  परंपरागत  sense of mass per  ईकाई   आवाज़  .
``   पेपर  density '' , rather , is a measure of the area density .
Paper products that let little or no light pass through ( e.g . poster board )  हैं  considered dense or heavy .
Paper products  कि   allow  some light  to  pass through ( e.g . tissue paper )  हैं  considered lightweight .
In the pulp  और  paper industry  ,  it is  आम  to set a  वाणिज्यिक  paper machine to produce paper to a target paper  घनत्व  .
Paper density can also be used to  फर्क  paper from paperboard  as  the latter usually  रै  a grammage greater than 134 g/m2 .
Two ways of expressing paper density are commonly  उपयोगd:
Expressed in grams per square meter ( g/m2 ) , paper density is also known as grammage .
This is the measure  प्रयुक्त  in most parts of  the  world .
Expressed in terms of the mass ( expressed as weight ) per number of sheets , it is known as basis weight .
The convention used in the United States and a few other countries  using  US paper sizes is pounds of a ream of 500 ( or in some  मामले  1000  )  sheets of a given  (  raw , still uncut ) basis size .
Japanese paper is expressed  as  the weight in kg of 1000 sheets .
Candace Nicole Parker ( born April 19 ,  1986  ) is an American basketball player for the WNBA 's Los Angeles  स्पार्क्स  and  ummc  Ekaterinburg of Russia .
वो  is the younger sister of NBA player Anthony Parker .
She attended the  विश्वविद्यालयों   of   टेनेसी  and was drafted by the  स्पार्क्स   in  2008 .
She may be best known for being the first woman to dunk in an NCAA tournament game and the first woman to dunk twice in a college game—she set both milestones as a redshirt freshman on  कूच  19  ,   2006   .
She also became  तभी   the  second player to dunk in a WNBA game on June 22 , 2008 .
A versatile player , she is mainly  a   आगे  , but was listed on Tennessee 's roster as a forward  ,  center , and guard .
She  थी  a starter  on  the Lady Vols basketball team , winners of the 2007 and 2008 NCAA championships .
Parker  जीती  the 2009 Nickelodeon Kids ' Choice award as the  पसंदीदा  female athlete in the sports category  .
And she was a guest star on Figure It Out .
A food guide pyramid is a pyramid shaped guide of healthy foods divided into sections to show the  अनुशंसित  intake for each food group .
The first food pyramid was published in Sweden in 1974 .
The most widely known food pyramid was introduced by the  संयुक्त  States Department of Agriculture in the year 1992 , was  अद्यतनीकृत  in 2005 , and then replaced in 2011 .
Over  25   अन्य  countries and organisations have also published  खाना  pyramids .
Hans Christian Andersen ( ; often referred  to  in Scandinavia as H. C. Andersen ; April 2 , 1805August 4 ,  1875  ) was a Danish author and poet .
Although  a  prolific writer of plays , travelogues , novels , and  कविताएं  , Andersen is  बेहतरीन  remembered for his fairy tales , a literary genre he so mastered  कि  he himself has become as mythical as the tales he  लिखा  .
Andersen 's  लोकप्रियता  is not limited to children ; his stories—called , or `` fantastic tales '' —express themes that transcend age and nationality .
During his lifetime he  थी  acclaimed for having delighted  children  worldwide and was feted by royalty  .
Andersen 's fairy tales , which have been translated into more than  125  languages , have become culturally embedded in the West  's  collective consciousness , readily accessible to children , but presenting lessons of virtue and resilience in the face of adversity for mature readers as well .
They have inspired motion  तस्वीरें  , plays , ballets , and animated films .
Two figures locking eyes in Caravaggio 's The Fortune Teller
Eye contact occurs when  ``  two people look at each other 's eyes  at  the same time . ''
In human beings , eye contact is a form of nonverbal  संचार  and is thought to have a large influence  on  social behavior  .
Coined in the early to mid-1960s , the term has  आइये  in the West to often define the act as a meaningful and important sign  of   विश्वास  and social communication .
The customs  और  significance of eye contact vary  widely   between  cultures , with religious and social differences often altering its meaning greatly .
The study of eye contact is sometimes known as oculesics .
Bed bugs are parasitic insects of  the  cimicid family that feed exclusively on blood .
The term most commonly refers to members of the genus Cimex of  जिससे  Cimex lectularius  ,  the common bed bug ,  is  the best known as it prefers to feed on human blood  हालांकि  other Cimex species are specialized to other animals , e.g. , bat  बग   ,  C. pipistrelli ( Europe ) , C.  pilosellus  ( western US ) ,  और  C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ) .
The name of the `` bed bug '' is derived from the preferred habitat of Cimex lectularius : warm houses and especially nearby or inside of beds and bedding or other sleep areas .
Bed bugs are mainly active at night , but  हैं  not exclusively nocturnal .
They usually feed  on  their hosts without being noticed .
A number of adverse health effects may result from bed bug bites , including skin rashes , psychological effects , and allergic symptoms .
निदान   involves  both finding bed bugs and the occurrence of compatible symptoms .
Bed bugs have been known  as  human parasites for thousands of  सालो  .
At a point in the early 1940s , they  यहूद  mostly eradicated  in  the developed world  ,  but have increased in prevalence  चूंकि  1995 .
Because infestation of human habitats has  महरूम  on the  बढ़ाएँ  , bed bug bites and  सम्बन्धित  conditions have been  on   the  rise as well .
The Book of Isaiah ( )  is  the first of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible , preceding Ezekiel , Jeremiah and the Book of the Twelve .
( The order of the subsequent books  differs  somewhat in the Christian Old  वसीयत   )  .
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom for a sinful Judah and for all  the  nations of the world that oppose God , while the last 27 prophesy the restoration of the nation of Israel and  a  new creation in God 's glorious future kingdom ; this section includes the Songs of the Suffering Servant , four separate passages  referring  to the nation of Israel , interpreted by Christians as prefiguring  the  coming of Jesus Christ .
Tradition ascribes  authorship  of the book to Isaiah son of Amoz , but now scholars  widely   सहमत  that the book is the work of three different authors - few scholars deny this  दृश्य  , and those  कि  do , do so for theological reasons .
The first , termed Proto-Isaiah ( chapters 1–39 ) , contains the words of the 8th-century  bce   नबी  with 7th-century BCE expansions  ;  the second  ,  Deutero-Isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ) , is the work  of  a 6th-century BCE author writing near the end of the Babylonian captivity ; and the third  ,  the poetic Trito-Isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ) , was composed in Jerusalem shortly after the return from exile , probably by multiple  लेखक  .
Oregon State  विश्वविद्यालयों  ( OSU  )  is a coeducational , public research university located  in  Corvallis , Oregon , United States .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों  offers undergraduate , graduate and  डॉक्टरेट  degrees and a multitude of research opportunities .
वहीँ  are more than  200  academic degree programs offered through the university .
OSU 's programs  in  microbiology , nuclear engineering , ecology , forestry , public health  ,  biochemistry ,  zoology  , oceanography , food science and  फार्मेसी  are recognized nationally as top tier programs .
The OSU 's  उदार  arts programs have also grown significantly and the department is considered a `` cornerstone '' of the institution .
More than 200,000 people  have   attended  OSU  चूंकि  its founding .
The Carnegie Foundation classifies Oregon State University as  भाग  of its top tier of  शोध  institutions .
As of 2008 , OSU is one of only seventy-three land-grant universities .
The school is also recognized  as  a sea-grant  ,   space-grant  and sun-grant institution ,  बनाना  it one of only two  us  institutions to retain all  चार  designations and the only public university  to  do so ( Cornell is the only other with similar  designations  ) .
As one of the  दो  flagship universities of the Oregon University System ,  osu  receives more funding for research ,  annually  ,  than  all other public higher education institutions in Oregon combined .
Female ejaculation  is  the expulsion of fluid by human females from  the  paraurethral  नलिकाएं  through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm .
It is  भी  known colloquially as  gushing  or squirting ,  हालांकि  these are  माना  to be different phenomena in some research publications .
The exact  सोर्स  and nature of the fluid  continue  to be a topic of debate among medical professionals , which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot .
The Kanab  ambersnail  , scientific name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis  or  Oxyloma kanabense , is a critically endangered subspecies or species of small , air-breathing land snail , a terrestrial pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the family Succineidae , the amber snails .
the   आम  name of the amber snails  is  based on the  शेल  , which is translucent and when empty usually  resembles  amber in  रंग  .
This species  is  endemic to the United States  ,  specifically the state of Arizona and Utah , where it was first collected in the early 20th century .
It has been listed as endangered on the United States  मछली  and Wildlife Service  सूची  of endangered species since 8 August 1991 .
This snail lives  in  wetlands , springs , and seeps , and only two of its natural habitats are known to exist : Three Lakes  ,  a meadow  निकट  Kanab , Utah , and Vasey  's  Paradise , a spring along the Colorado River within Grand Canyon National Park .
In its natural habitat it  is  rather polyphagous , feeding mainly on bacteria , plants and fungi , and reproduces during the  गर्मियाँ  .
Now considered a Critically Endangered species on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species due to a series of factors ( including influence ) , the Kanab ambersnail has been reintroduced to three springs  ऊपर  the historic high water level along the Colorado River  .
The Spanish language is the second most used language in the United States .
There are more Spanish speakers in the United States than there are speakers of  चाइनीज  , French , German , Italian , Hawaiian , and the Native American languages combined .
According to the 2010 American Community Survey conducted by  the  U.S. Census Bureau , Spanish is  the  primary language spoken at home by almost  37  million people aged five or older  ,  a figure more than double that of 1990 .
वहीँ  are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or second language  ,  as well  as  six million Spanish language students  ,  composing the largest national Spanish-speaking community outside of Mexico and making Spanish the Romance language and  the   indo-european  language with largest number of native speakers in the world .
Roughly half of all U.S. Spanish speakers also speak English `` very well , '' based on  the  self-assessment Census question respondents .
The language came to the country since the 16th and 17th  सदियां  with the  आगमन  of Spanish colonists in areas that would later become the states of Florida , Texas , Colorado , New Mexico  ,  Arizona , Nevada , Utah , and California and of the Spanish  explorers  - who explored areas of 42 states- .
Also west of Louisiana Territory was Spanish between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the French recovery of territory ) , after the  फ्रेंच   और  Indian War .
After of the incorporation of these states to the U.S. in first half of 19th century  ,  the  स्पेनी  language was later reinforced  by  the acquisition of Puerto Rico  in  1898 and by later waves of the Hispanic emigration , basically from  हिस्पैनिक  America , to the United States  शुरूआत  in the second half of 19th century until today  .
is a  लैटिन   शब्द  that means `` thus  ''  or  ,  in writing , `` it was thus  in  the source material '' .
Sic may also refer to:
Sic , Cluj , a commune in  रोमानिया
SIC , the regional code for  सिसिली
Sic ( noise artist ) , styled as [ sic ]  ,  stage name of Jennifer Morris  ,   a  Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash metal band from Torshavn , the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic  )   ''  , a song by American band Slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC , the initial of Marco Simoncelli .
SIC as an acronym may stand for:
SiC  ,  Silicon carbide , a semiconducting material , also used to make metalworking  टूल्स
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial  वर्गीकरण  , a 20th-century U.S. system for classifying industries
International Standard Industrial Classification a UN system for economic activities
Shetland  आइलैंड्स  Council
the Swiss Interbank  clearing  system
सैन  Isidro  क्लबों  , an Argentine rugby union club
Standing  निर्वचन  Committee , a committee dedicated to  the  interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information criterion in  the  field of statistics
Second-in-command in the field of aviation
Sistema Interconectado Central power grid in Chile
Sociedade Independente de Comunicação ( SIC ) , a television channel in  पुर्तगाल
Sea Isle City , New Jersey , a coastal town in the United States
Segmented Integer Counter mode , a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang International Circuit , a high-end racetrack that hosts  the  Malaysian  गोलाकार  of Formula 1
Shanghai  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Circuit , a  मोटर  racing venue in Shanghai , China
Simplified instructional  कंप्यूटर  , a  काल्पनिक  computer used in systems programming
SIC (  बेटे  Idées Couleurs ) , an  जल्दी  twentieth-century art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois  कॉलेज  , a two year Junior College  in  Harrisburg  ,  Illinois ,  संयुक्त  States
विशिष्ट  inductive capacity , abbreviated  to  SIC , which is more commonly known as the relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius ' College , Riverview , a Jesuit school in Sydney  ,  Australia
alt=Five  मुस्कुराना  young girls in various poses wearing  श्वेत  smocks over thigh-length dresses of similar color to their hair .
The Tokyo Mew Mew manga and anime series features a cast of characters designed by Mia Ikumi .
the   श्रेणी  takes place in Tokyo , Japan , where five adolescent girls  ,  called Mew Mews , are infused with the DNA of endangered species to combat aliens attempting to take over the  धरती  .
The manga series is followed by a short sequel series , Tokyo Mew Mew a la Mode , which introduces  a  new Mew Mew and a new threat .
The Mew Mews are led by  the  main character , Ichigo Momomiya , whose first  कार्य  is to gather  the  other four Mew Mews : Mint Aizawa , Lettuce Midorikawa , Pudding Fong , and Zakuro Fujiwara .
As the series progresses , Ichigo goes from having a crush on  masaya  Aoyama to becoming his girlfriend while trying to hide her secret double life from him .
The series antagonists include three aliens , Kish , Pie , and Tart , and their leader  ,   गहन  Blue .
Originally from  धरती  , the aliens  यहूद  forced to leave long ago due to  घातक  environmental changes .
They have returned to kill the humans , who  वे   महसूस  are destroying their planet , and reclaim the planet .
In a la Mode  ,  middle  स्कूल  student Berry Shirayuki is introduced as the sixth Mew Mew and , in the absence of Ichigo ,  the  temporary leader of the Mew Mews .
A la Mode also introduces new set  of   antagonists  , the Saint  रोज़  Crusaders , a group of  इंसान  teenagers with various psychic abilities  साथ  a desire to create their  अपना  utopia .
Led  by   ड्यूक   ,  they make several attempts to kill Berry  ,  eventually turning the local populace against the Mew Mews .
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew Mew  थी  a story called Tokyo  ब्लैक  Cat Girl  कि  featured a cat-girl battling alien invaders .
After the  स्टोरी  was transitioned to a more  upbeat  story of five female superheroes , the character designs were redone to have a lighter , more colorful feel .
The main series characters were praised for being a perfect fit for  the  overall story , as well as for their cute appearances .
The characters introduced in a la Mode  यहूद   भी   praised  for their visual appearances ,  लकिन  criticized as being repeats of  the   असली  series .
The  अक्षर  Duke was also criticized for having a design reminiscent  of  the white supremacy group , the  ku  Klux Klan .
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence of siltstones (  नीचे  ) and  limestones  ( above ) , Virgin Formation , southwestern Utah , USA
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock  कि  are formed by the  deposition  of material at  the  Earth  's   सतह   और  within bodies of water .
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or  सशुल्क  particles  (  detritus ) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution .
अणु  that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment .
Before being deposited , sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area , and then transported to the place  of  deposition by water ,  हवा  , ice , mass movement or  ग्लेशियर  which are called agents of denudation .
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth 's crust is extensive  ,  but the total contribution of sedimentary  रॉक्स  is estimated  to  be only 8 % of  the  total volume of the crust  .
Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust  consisting  mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks .
Sedimentary  रॉक्स  are deposited in layers as strata , forming a structure called bedding .
The study of sedimentary  रॉक्स  and rock strata provides information about the  subsurface   कि   is  useful for civil engineering , for example in the construction  of  roads , houses , tunnels , canals or other  constructions  .
Sedimentary rocks are also  महत्वपूर्ण   स्त्रोत   of  natural resources  जैसे  coal , fossil  fuels  , drinking water or ores .
The study of the sequence of sedimentary rock strata is the main source for  वैज्ञानिक  knowledge about the Earth  's  history , including palaeogeography , paleoclimatology and the history of life .
The scientific discipline that studies the properties and origin of  sedimentary  rocks is called sedimentology .
Sedimentology is both part of geology and physical geography and overlaps partly with other disciplines in the Earth sciences , such as pedology , geomorphology , geochemistry or structural geology .
350px
Humans  हैं  born with over 270 bones  ,  some of which fuse together into a longitudinal axis , the  अक्षीय  skeleton  ,  to which the appendicular skeleton is attached .
Saint Patrick ( ; ; Modern ; ; c. 387 – 17 March  c.  460 or c. 492 ) was a Romano-British Christian missionary and bishop in Ireland .
ज्ञात  as the `` Apostle of Ireland  ''  , he is  the  primary patron  संत  of the island along with Saints Brigid and Columba .
Two authentic letters from him survive , from which come the only generally accepted details of his  जीवन  .
When he  थी  about 16 , he was captured from his home and taken as a  स्लेव  to Ireland , where he lived  लिये  six years  पहले   escaping  and returning to his family .
After becoming a  मौलवी  , he returned to northern and western Ireland as an ordained  बिशप  , but little is known about the places where he worked .
By the seventh century , he had  already  come to be revered as the patron saint of Ireland .
Most available details of his life are from subsequent hagiographies , and these are now not accepted  बगैर  detailed criticism .
The Annals of Ulster state that he arrived in Ireland in 432 , ministered in Ulster around 443 , and died in 457 or 461 .
The text , however , distinguishes between `` Old Patrick  ''  ( thought to mean  palladius  ) and `` Patrick , archapostle of the Scots , '' who died in 492 .
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can not be fixed with certainty but , on a widespread interpretation , he was active  as  a missionary in  आयरलैंड  during the second half of the 5th  सदी  .
He is generally credited with being the first bishop of Armagh , Primate of All Ireland .
Saint  पैट्रिक  's Day is observed  on  March 17 , the date of his death .
It is celebrated both inside  और  outside Ireland , as both a religious and , especially outside Ireland , secular  अवकाश  .
In the dioceses  of  Ireland , it is both a solemnity and a  पावन   दिन   of  obligation ; outside Ireland , it can be a celebration of  आयरलैंड  itself .
Line segments in  the   सुनहरी  ratio
A golden rectangle with  longer  side a and shorter side b , when placed adjacent to a square with sides of length  a  , will produce a similar golden rectangle with longer side a +  b  and shorter side a .
This illustrates the relationship .
In  गणित   और  the arts , two quantities are in the golden ratio if the ratio of the sum of the quantities to the larger quantity is  बराबर  to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller  एक  .
The figure on the right illustrates the geometric relationship .
Expressed algebraically:
where the Greek letter phi ( ) represents the golden ratio  .
Its value is:
The  सुनहरी  ratio is  भी   पुकारा  the golden section  (  Latin : sectio aurea ) or golden  औसत  .
Other names include extreme and mean  अनुपात  ,  medial  section , divine proportion , divine section ( Latin : sectio  divina  )  ,  golden proportion , golden cut , and golden number .
Many 20th century artists and architects have proportioned their works  to  approximate the golden ratio—especially in the form of the golden rectangle , in which the ratio of  the  longer side  to  the shorter is the golden ratio—believing this proportion to be aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ) .
Mathematicians  चूंकि  Euclid have studied the properties of the golden ratio , including its appearance in the dimensions of a regular  प्रस्तुतीकरण  and in a golden rectangle , which can be cut into a square and a smaller rectangle with the same aspect ratio .
The golden ratio has also  महरूम  used to analyze the proportions of natural objects as well as  man-made  systems such as financial markets , in some cases based on dubious fits to data .
North Myrtle Beach  is  a coastal resort city in Horry County , South Carolina  ,  United States .
It was created in 1968 from four existing municipalities  उत्तर  of  myrtle  Beach , and serves as one of the primary tourist towns along the Grand Strand  .
the  population was 13,752 at the 2010 census .
World War I (  wwi  ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on  28  July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called  the  World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the  प्रारंभ  of World War II in 1939 ,  और  the  पहला  World War or World War  i  thereafter  .
It involved all the world 's great  शक्तियां  , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France  और  Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the  ट्रिपल  Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but  ,  as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not  डालें   into  the war ) .
These alliances were both  reorganised  and expanded as  अधिक  nations  डाला  the war : Italy , Japan  और  the United States joined  the  Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers  .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel  ,  including 60  लाख  Europeans , were mobilised  in  one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were  मारे  , largely because  of  technological advancements that  led  to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding  सुधार  in protection or mobility .
It was the  fifth-  deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such as revolutions in  अनेक  of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the  पुनरुत्थान  of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe .
More  तत्काल  , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne  of  Austria-Hungary , on 28 June  1914  by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip  in  Sarajevo triggered a  राजनयिक  crisis  जब  Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of  सर्बिया  .
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked .
Within weeks ,  the  major powers were  at  war and , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for  the  invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to  फ़्रांस  , providing a casus belli for Britain 's  घोषणा  of war against Germany .
बाद  the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle  of  attrition with a trench line that changed little until  1917  .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army  थी  successful against the Austro-Hungarians ,  लकिन  was stopped in its invasion of  ईस्ट  Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war  ,  opening up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916 .
in  Russia , the tsar 's government  collapsed  in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians  to  terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove  वापस   the  Germans in  a  series  of  successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble  साथ  revolutionaries , agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended  in  victory  लिये   the   allies  .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on  the   बैटल   fronts  , as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four  प्रमुख  imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of  territory  , while the  latter   दो  were dismantled entirely .
The  मैप  of central Europe was redrawn into  अनेक  smaller states .
The League of  राष्ट्र  was formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict .
the  European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of  empires  , the repercussions  of  Germany 's defeat  और  problems with the  सन्धि  of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
Camden is a city in Camden County , New Jersey , United States .
It is the county seat , located  आरपार   the  Delaware River from Philadelphia  .
As of  the  2010 United States Census the city had a total population of 77,344 , representing a decline of 2,560  (  3.2 % )  इससे  the 79,904 residents  enumerated  during the 2000 Census  ,  which had in turn declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census .
Camden ranked as the 12th-most populous municipality in the state in 2010 after having been ranked 10th in 2000 .
Camden was  originally  incorporated  as  a city on February 13 , 1828 , from portions of  the  now-defunct Newton Township , while  the  area was still part of Gloucester County .
On March  13   ,  1844 , Camden became part of the newly formed Camden County .
हालांकि  once a thriving center for  निर्माण   और  industry , Camden is perhaps best known  लिये  its struggles with urban dysfunction .
Three Camden mayors have been  jailed  for corruption , the most recent being Milton  मिलान  in 2000  .
Since 2005 the  स्कूल  system and police department have been operated by  the  state  of  New Jersey ; the takeover expired in 2012 .
In 2008  ,  Camden  था  the highest crime rate in the U.S. with 2,333 violent crimes per 100,000 people while the national average was 455 per 100,000 .
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 per student ( $ 19,118  on   a   budgetary  per-pupil basis ) in the  2009–10  school year and  two-thirds  of the students graduate .
Two out of every five residents are below the national poverty line .
Amitriptyline  (  Tryptomer , Elavil , Tryptizol , Laroxyl , Saroten , Sarotex , Lentizol , Endep ) is  a  tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ) .
It is the most widely  प्रयुक्त  TCA and has  at  least equal efficacy against depression as the newer class of SSRIs according to a study from  जल्दी  2001 .
As  खूब   as  reducing depressive  लक्षण  , these  प्रकार  of tricyclics also ease  migraines  , tension  headaches  ,  चिंता  attacks and some schizophrenic symptoms .
It is also known to reduce aggression and violent  बर्ताव  .
A computer is a general purpose device that can be programmed to carry out a finite  नियत  of  गणित  or logical operations .
Since a sequence  of  operations can be readily changed , the  कंप्यूटर  can solve more than one kind  of  problem .
Conventionally , a computer consists of at least  एक   प्रसंस्करण  element ,  typically  a central processing unit ( CPU ) and some form of memory .
The processing element  carries  out arithmetic and logic operations , and a sequencing and control unit that can change the order of operations based on stored information .
Peripheral devices  allow  information to be retrieved from an external source , and the result of operations saved and retrieved .
The first electronic digital computers were developed between 1940 and 1945 in the United Kingdom and United States .
Originally they were the size of a  विशाल  room  ,  consuming as much power as  अनेक  hundred modern personal computers ( PCs ) .
In this era mechanical  एनालॉग  computers were used for military applications .
Modern computers based on  एकीकृत  circuits are millions to billions of times more capable than the early  मशीने  , and occupy a fraction of the space  .
Simple computers are small enough to  अनुरूप  into mobile devices , and mobile computers can be powered  by  small batteries .
Personal computers in their various forms are icons of the Information Age  और  are what most people think of as “computers.”
however  , the embedded computers found in many  डिवाइस  from MP3 players to fighter aircraft and  इससे  toys to industrial robots are the most  numerous  .
`` Barefoot and pregnant '' is a phrase most  commonly  associated  साथ  the controversial idea that women should not work outside the home and should have many children during their reproductive years .
It has several  अन्य  meanings as well .
it  is a figure of speech .
The phrase `` barefoot and pregnant '' was probably  पहला  used sometime before 1950 .
An article from 1949 states ,  ``  By early 1949 , TWA was—in the  शब्द  of its new president , Ralph S. Damon—both 'barefoot and  गर्भवती  . ' ''
Its usage may date as early as the 1910s  .
An article published in 1958 states the phrase was first used by  a  ``  dr.   hertzler  '' 40 years earlier .
`` Some forty  सालो  ago , Dr.  hertzler  advanced a hypothesis which young women of  आज  seem bent  on  proving correct. '
The only way to keep a woman happy  ,  ' he said ,  'is  to keep her barefoot and pregnant . ' ''
Oakhurst is a census-designated place and unincorporated community within Ocean Township , in  मॉनमाउथ  County , New Jersey , United States .
as  of the 2010 United States Census , the CDP 's population was 3,995 .
University of Phoenix  स्टेडियम  , opened August 1 , 2006  ,  is a multipurpose football stadium located in Glendale , Arizona .
it  is  the  home of the Arizona Cardinals of the  नेशनल   फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL ) and the  सालाना  Fiesta Bowl .
The stadium is located next door to the Jobing.com Arena and it  सुविधाएँ  the first fully retractable natural grass playing surface built in the United States on top of an AirField Systems drainage system .
an  opening on one side of the stadium allows the playing field to move to the exterior of  the  building , allowing  the  entire natural turf playing surface to be exposed to  daylight  .
The stadium has hosted Super Bowl XLII , and the 2011 BCS National Championship Game , a game that it hosts every four years , which set the venue 's entertainment attendance record of  78,603  on January  11  , 2011  .
It will again  मेजबान  Super Bowl XLIX in 2015  .
The University of Phoenix acquired the naming  अधिकारों  in September 2006 , shortly after the stadium had opened under the name Cardinals  स्टेडियम  .
The `` University of  फीनिक्स  `` name is applied  as  a corporate sponsor , and not as the home stadium of the University  (  which has no intercollegiate athletics program ) .
The stadium  रै  also hosted the WWE event WrestleMania XXVI with 72,219 fans in attendance .
The event was held in the stadium on March  28th  2010 .
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8  ,  1828  –  February 24  ,  1914 ) , born as Lawrence  जोशुआ  Chamberlain , was  an  American college professor from the State of Maine  ,   जो  volunteered  दौरान  the American  सिविल   युद्ध  to join the  संघ  Army .
Although having no earlier education in  सैन्य  strategies , he became a highly  आदरणीय  and decorated Union officer , reaching the rank of brigadier general ( and  brevet  major  सामान्य  ) .
For his gallantry at Gettysburg , he was awarded the Medal of Honor .
He was given the honor of commanding the Union troops at the surrender ceremony for the infantry of Robert E. Lee 's Army at Appomattox , Virginia .
बाद  the war , he entered  राजनीती  as a Republican and served four one-year terms of office as the 32nd Governor of Maine .
he  served on the faculty ,  और  as  अध्यक्ष   ,  of his alma mater , Bowdoin College .
An inning , or innings  ,  is a fixed-length segment of a  खेल  in any  of  a  किस्में  of sports – most notably cricket and baseball during which one team attempts to score while the other team attempts to prevent the first  इससे  scoring  .
In cricket , the term innings is both  एकवचन  and  बहुवचन  and is always spelled  और  pronounced with the terminal `` s '' .
In  बेसबॉल  and softball , the singular form is inning  और  only the plural takes an `` s ''  .
In many other sports  ,  the length of the game is dictated by a clock and teams swap  अप्रिय  and defensive roles dynamically by  लेने  possession of a ball  or  similar item .
In baseball and cricket , however , one team , said to be ``  बल्लेबाजी  '' , attempts to score `` runs '' —see run ( baseball  )   और  run ( cricket )  —while  the other team , said to be `` fielding '' , attempts to  prevent  the scoring of runs and get members of the batting team out .
The teams  स्विच  places after the fielding team has succeeded in getting a fixed number  of   खिलाड़ी  out , making a clock unnecessary .
in  cricket  ,  the term innings is also used to refer to the play of one particular player ( Smith had a poor innings , scoring only 12 ) .
by  extension , this term  can  be used in British English for almost any activity which takes a period of time  (  The  उदार  government had a good innings , but finally lost office in 1972 , or You 've had a fair innings , now it 's my turn , meaning `` you have spoken  लिये  long enough , now let me  बोलो  ''  )  .
It is also used in reference to  किसी  who has died  at  a  reasonably  old age or lived a rich and rewarding life ( Ah , well  .
John was 89 .
At least he had a good innings ) .
The baseball-derived parallel to this in American English is the term at bat .
According to the Oxford English Dictionary , the term innings has been used in reference to cricket since at least 1735 .
As cricket was a mature , highly organized sport in the 1600s in England , the term 's origin could well precede this first recorded usage .
The word inning meaning 'a gathering in ' is  पहला  recorded in 1522  ,  and  could  be related .
एडीनोसिन  deaminase  कमियां  , also called ADA  कमियां  or ADA-SCID , is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that causes immunodeficiency .
It occurs in fewer than one in 100,000  सजीव  births worldwide .
It accounts for about 15 % of all cases  of  severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) .
It is  बहुत  rare ,  तुम  have a 3 % chance of getting this gene .
ADA deficiency may be present in infancy , childhood , adolescense , or adulthood .
Age of onset and severity is related to some 29 known genotypes associated with the disorder .
An example of urban  गरीबी  in this  slum  in Jakarta  ,  Indonesia
Poverty is the state of one who lacks a certain amount of material possessions or money .
Absolute poverty or destitution refers to the deprivation of basic human needs , which  commonly   शामिल  food , water , sanitation , clothing , shelter ,  स्वास्थ्य  care  और  education .
सापेक्ष   गरीबी  is defined  contextually  as economic inequality  in  the  स्थान  or society in which  लोगों   सजीव  .
For much of history , poverty was considered largely unavoidable as traditional modes of production were insufficient to give an entire population a comfortable standard  of   जीना  .
After  the   औद्योगिक  revolution , mass production in factories made wealth increasingly more inexpensive and accessible .
Of more importance is the modernization of agriculture , such as fertilizers ,  in  order  to  provide enough yield to feed the  जनसांख्यिकी  .
The supply of basic needs can  be  restricted by constraints on government  सेवाएं  such as corruption , tax avoidance , debt and loan conditionalities and by the brain drain of health care and educational professionals .
Strategies of increasing income  to  make basic  needs   अधिक  affordable typically include welfare , economic freedoms  ,  and providing financial services .
Poverty reduction is  a  major goal and issue for many international organizations  ऐसे  as the United Nations and the  संसार  Bank  .
The World Bank estimated 1.29 billion people were living in absolute poverty in 2008 .
Of these , about 400 million people in  निरपेक्ष  poverty lived in India and  173  million people in China .
In USA  1  in 5 children lives  in  poverty .
in  terms of percentage of regional populations  ,  sub-Saharan  अफ़्रीकी  at 47 % had  the  highest incidence rate of absolute  गरीबी  in 2008 .
Between  1990  and  2010  , about 663 million people moved above the absolute poverty level .
Still , extreme poverty is a global challenge ;  it  is observed in all parts of the world , including the developed economies .
Mushroom poisoning ( also known as mycetism ) refers  to  harmful effects  इससे  ingestion  of  toxic substances present in a mushroom .
These symptoms can vary from slight gastrointestinal discomfort to death .
The toxins present are secondary metabolites produced in specific  biochemical  pathways in the fungal  कोशिकाएं  .
Mushroom  विषाक्तता  is  प्रायः   the  result of ingestion of wild mushrooms after misidentification of a toxic mushroom as an edible  प्रजाति  .
The most common reason for this  misidentification  is  बंद  resemblance in terms of colour and general morphology of the toxic mushrooms species with edible species .
Even very experienced wild  मशरूम  gatherers are upon rare occasion poisoned by eating toxic species  ,  despite being well aware  of  the risks , through carelessness .
To prevent mushroom poisoning , mushroom gatherers need to be very familiar with the mushrooms they intend to  collect  as well as with any similar-looking toxic species .
In addition , edibility of  मशरूम  may depend on methods of preparation for cooking .
Collectors also need to be well  जागरूक   कि  edibility or toxicity of some species varies with geographic location .
Human  ऊँचाई   is  the distance  इससे  the bottom of the feet to the top of the head in a human body , standing erect .
When populations share genetic background and environmental factors  ,  average height is  अक्सर  characteristic within the group .
Exceptional height variation ( around 20 % deviation from average ) within such a population  is  sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism , which are medical conditions caused by specific genes or endocrine abnormalities .
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare , environmental factors like chronic malnutrition during childhood or adolescence may account  लिये  delayed growth and/or ( in severe cases ) marked reductions in adult stature even  बगैर  the presence of any of these medical conditions .
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight  कि  landed the first humans , Americans Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin , on the Moon on July  20  , 1969 , at 20:18  utc  .
Armstrong became the first to step onto the lunar surface 6  घंटों  later on July 21 at 02:56 UTC  .
आर्मस्ट्रांग  spent about two and a half hours outside the  spacecraft  ,  एल्ड्रिन  slightly less ; and together they collected of lunar  सामग्री  for return to Earth .
A  तीसरा  member  of  the mission  ,   माइकल  Collins ,  piloted  the command spacecraft alone in lunar orbit until Armstrong and Aldrin returned to it  बस  under a day later for the trip back to Earth .
Launched  by  a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy Space Center in Merritt  द्वीप  , Florida on July 16 , Apollo 11 was the fifth manned mission of NASA 's Apollo program .
The Apollo  spacecraft  had three parts : a Command Module  साथ  a cabin for the three astronauts which was the only part which landed back  on  Earth ; a Service Module which  समर्थित  the Command Module with propulsion , electrical power , oxygen and water  ;  and a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon  .
After being sent to the Moon by the Saturn V 's upper stage , the astronauts separated the spacecraft from it and travelled for three days until they entered into lunar orbit .
Armstrong and Aldrin then moved  into  the Lunar Module and landed in  the  Sea of Tranquility .
They stayed a total of about 21 and a half hours on the  चंद्र  surface .
After lifting off in  the  upper part of the Lunar Module and rejoining Collins in  the   कमांड  Module , they returned to Earth and  उतरा  in the Pacific Ocean on July 24  .
Broadcast on live TV to a world-wide audience , Armstrong stepped onto the lunar surface and described the event as `` one small step for [ a ] man ,  एक  giant leap for  mankind  . ''
Apollo 11 effectively  ended  the Space Race and fulfilled a national goal proposed in 1961 by the late U.S. President John  F.  Kennedy in a speech before the United States Congress , `` before this decade is out , of landing a man  on  the  चंद्रमा   और  returning him safely to the Earth . ''
The FIFA  संसार  Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international association football  प्रतियोगिता  contested  by  the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global  शासी  body .
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930 , except in  1942  and 1946 when it was not  आयोजित   क्युकी  of the Second World War .
The current champions  हैं  Spain , who won the  2010  tournament .
The  वर्तमान  format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at  venues  within the host nation (  s  ) over a period of about a  माह   ;  this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
a  qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years , is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with  the  host nation ( s  )  .
The 19 World  कप  tournaments have been won by eight different national teams .
Brazil have won five times , and they  हैं  the only team to have played in every tournament .
The other World Cup winners are Italy , with four  शीर्षक  ; Germany , with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay , with two  शीर्षक  each ; and England ,  फ़्रांस  , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is the  संसार   's  most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014 , Russia in 2018 , and  क़तर  in  2022  .
Genocide is a term coined in 1944 by  राफेल  Lemkin to describe the deliberate and systematic destruction , in whole or  in  part , of an  जातीय  , racial  ,  religious ,  or  national group .
It is defined in Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as  ``  any of  the  following acts committed with  intent  to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group , as such : killing members of the group ; causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group ;  deliberately  inflicting on the  समूह  conditions of  जीवन  ,  गणना  to  लाओ  about its physical destruction in whole or in part ; imposing measures  intended  to prevent births within the group ; [ and ] forcibly  transferring  children of the group  to   another  group . ''
Skulls of victims of the Rwandan Genocide
The preamble to the CPPCG not only states that `` genocide is a  अपराधों  under international  विधि  , contrary to the spirit and aims of the United Nations and condemned by the  civilized   संसार  '' ,  लकिन  also that `` at all periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity '' .
Determining what  ऐतिहासिक  events constitute a genocide  और  which are  merely  criminal or inhuman behavior is not a clear-cut matter .
In nearly every case where accusations  of  genocide  have  circulated , partisans of various sides have fiercely disputed the interpretation and details of the event , often to the point of promoting  wildly  different  संस्करण  of the facts .
An accusation of genocide is certainly not taken lightly and will almost always be controversial  .
the  following list of genocides and alleged genocides  चाहिए  be  समझा   in  this context and can not be regarded as the final word  on  these subjects  .
A timing belt is a non-slipping mechanical drive belt and  the  term may refer to either:
Toothed belt , a flexible belt with teeth moulded onto its inner surface
Timing belt ( camshaft ) , a  toothed  belt used to drive the camshaft ( s  )  within an internal combustion engine
The culture of the United States is primarily a Western culture , but is also influenced by Native American , African ,  एशियाई  , Polynesian , and Latin American cultures  .
अमरीकी  culture started its  गठन  over 10,000 years ago with the migration of Paleo-Indians from Asia into the  प्रदेश   कि  is today the continental  संयुक्त  States .
It has its own unique social and cultural characteristics  ऐसे  as dialect , music , arts , social  आदतें  , cuisine , and folklore .
The  संयुक्त  States of America is an ethnically and racially  विविध  country as a result of large-scale immigration from many different countries throughout its  इतिहास  .
Its chief early European influences came from English  ,  Scottish , Welsh and Irish settlers of colonial America during British rule .
British  संस्कृति  , due to colonial ties with Britain that spread the English language ,  विधिक  system and other cultural inheritances ,  था  a formative influence .
Other important influences came from other parts of western Europe , especially Germany , France , and Italy .
असली  elements also play a strong role , such as the invention of Jeffersonian democracy .
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on the State of Virginia  थी  perhaps the first influential domestic cultural critique by an American and a reactionary piece to  the  prevailing European consensus that America  's   घरेलू  originality was degenerate .
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically , such as national holidays , uniquely American  खेल  , military tradition , and innovations in the arts and entertainment give a strong sense of  नेशनल  pride among the population as a whole .
अमरीकी  culture includes both conservative and liberal elements , scientific and religious competitiveness , political structures , risk taking and free expression , materialist and moral elements  .
Despite  निश्चित  consistent ideological principles ( e.g . individualism , egalitarianism , and faith  in  freedom and democracy ) , American culture has a variety of expressions due to its  भौगोलिक  scale and demographic  विविधता  .
The flexibility of U.S. culture and its highly symbolic nature lead some researchers to categorize American culture as a mythic identity ; others see  it  as American exceptionalism .
It also includes elements that  विकसित  from Indigenous Americans , and other ethnic  cultures—most  prominently  the  culture of  अफ़्रीकी  Americans , cultures from  लैटिन  America , and Asian  अमरीकी  cultures .
Many American cultural elements , especially from popular culture , have spread across  the   ग्लोब  through modern mass media .
The United States has often been thought of  as  a melting pot , but  शुरूआत  in the late 1990s and early 2000s , it trends towards cultural diversity , pluralism  और  the image  of  a salad bowl instead .
Due to the extent of American culture , there are  अनेक  integrated but unique social subcultures within the United States .
The cultural  संबद्धों  an individual in  the  United  राज्य  may have commonly depend on social class , political orientation and a multitude of demographic  विशेषताएँ  such as  धार्मिक  background , occupation and ethnic group membership .
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : )  is  the language  of  the Samoan Islands , comprising the independent country of Samoa and the United States territory  of   अमरीकी  Samoa  .
It is an official language—alongside English —in both jurisdictions .
Samoan , a Polynesian language , is the first language for most of the Samoa Islands ' population of about 246,000 .
With many Samoan people living  in  other countries , the total number of speakers worldwide is estimated at 370,000 .
The language is notable for the phonological differences  between  formal and informal speech as well as a ceremonial  रूप  used in Samoan oratory .
A glucose tolerance test is a  चिकित्सा  test in which  ग्लूकोज  is given and blood samples taken afterward to determine how quickly it is cleared from the  रक्त  .
the  test is usually used to test  लिये  diabetes , insulin resistance , and sometimes reactive hypoglycemia and acromegaly , or rarer disorders  of  carbohydrate metabolism .
In the most commonly performed version of  the  test  ,   an  oral glucose tolerance test ( OGTT ) ,  a  standard dose of  ग्लूकोज  is ingested by mouth and blood levels are  checked  two hours later  .
Many variations of the GTT have  महरूम  devised over the  सालो  for various purposes , with different standard doses of glucose , different routes of  प्रशासन  , different intervals and durations  of  sampling , and various substances  measured  in addition to blood glucose .
`` What About Me '' is  a  song written by Garry Frost and Frances Swan , first recorded by Australian  चट्टान  band Moving Pictures from their album Days of Innocence .
It was the band 's first number-one single in Australia spending six consecutive weeks on the top  ;   वहीँ  , it was  the  second-highest selling single  of  1982 .
The success of the song led them to America where it became a hit , reaching # 29 on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
The song stayed in the U.S. charts  लिये  such a long time that it managed to make Billboards top 100 Pop Singles of 1983 , at # 88 , a rare feat for a single with such a low  शिखर  position .
The  सोंग  made an unusual comeback in 1989  ,  peaking at # 46 .
On the left a chicken egg ,  the  egg most commonly  खाया  by humans , and on the right two quail eggs
Eggs are laid by females of many different species , including birds  ,  reptiles ,  amphibians  , and fish , and have been eaten by mankind for thousands of years .
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a protective eggshell ,  albumen  ( egg white ) , and vitellus ( egg yolk ) ,  contained  within  विभिन्न  thin membranes .
Popular choices for egg consumption are  मुर्गा  , duck , quail ,  roe  , and caviar , but the egg most  प्रायः  consumed by humans is  the  chicken egg , by a  चौड़ी  margin  .
अंडा  yolks and whole eggs store significant  amounts   of  protein and choline , and are  widely  used in cookery .
Due to their protein content , the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) categorizes eggs  as  Meats  भीतर  the Food  मार्गदर्शिका  Pyramid .
despite  the nutritional value of eggs  ,  there are some potential health issues arising from egg quality , storage , and individual allergies .
Chickens  और  other egg-laying creatures are widely kept throughout the world , and mass production of chicken eggs is a global industry .
In 2009 , an estimated 62.1 million  मीट्रिक  tons of eggs were produced worldwide from a total laying flock of approximately 6.4 billion hens .
There are issues of regional variation in demand and expectation ,  as  well as current debates concerning methods of mass production , with the European Union 's ban on battery  खेती  of  मुर्गियों  .
Major League Soccer ( MLS )  is  a professional soccer  लीग  representing the sport  's  highest  स्तर  in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  and  कनाडा  .
Sanctioned by the  संयुक्त  States Soccer Federation ( U.S. Soccer ) , the  लीग  is composed of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in Canada .
Seasons  presently  run from March to December , with each team playing 34 games in the regular season .
Ten  टीमों  compete in the  postseason  MLS Cup Playoffs culminating in the championship game  ,  the MLS Cup .
Major League Soccer was founded in 1993 as part of the United States ' bid to host the 1994  फीफा   संसार  Cup .
The first  ऋतु  took place in 1996 beginning  साथ  ten  टीमों  .
Instead of operating as an association of independently owned teams , MLS is a single entity where each team is owned and controlled  by  the league 's investors .
The league 's closed membership makes it one of the  संसार  's few soccer leagues not using promotion and relegation .
the  legality of cannabis varies from country  to  country .
Possession of cannabis is illegal in  सबसे  countries and has been since the beginning of widespread cannabis  निषेध  in the late 1930s .
however  , many countries have decriminalized the possession  of  small quantities of cannabis , particularly in North America , South America and Europe .
Furthermore  ,  possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands , North  कोरियाई  and would be in  the  U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if  it  were not for federal  विधि  , which governs persons in all states .
The medicinal use  of  cannabis is legal in a number of countries  ,  including Canada , the Czech Republic and Israel .
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis , enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have established medicinal marijuana  कार्यक्रम  in that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and  replaced  them  साथ   a   नियामक  regime , also  contrary  to federal statute .
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others  लकिन  , apart from the countries that offer  अभिगम  to medical marijuana , most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient  to  very severe .
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation , use , possession or transfer of cannabis for recreational use  .
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis ,  बनाना  it punishable by confiscation and a fine , rather than imprisonment .
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use  अनिवार्य  treatment programs for young or frequent users , with freedom from narcotic drugs as  the  goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal  उद्देश्य  .
There are  भी  changes in a more restrictive direction as in Canada  .
Drug tests to detect cannabis  हैं  increasingly common in many  देशों  and have resulted in jail sentences  और  people losing  उनके  jobs .
However , simple  कब्ज़ा  can carry long jail  वाक्य  in some countries , particularly  in  parts  of  East Asia and Southeast Asia  जहाँ  the sale of cannabis  may  lead to  a  sentence of life in prison or even execution .
In cardiovascular physiology ,  ejection  fraction ( EF ) represents  the  volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle .
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary valve into the  pulmonary  circulation or the  बाएँ  ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation .
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging  रै  become a worldwide utility enabling study of cardiac performance reproducibly and  inexpensively  .
Simplified , Ejection fraction is a  गणितीय  product allowed by cardiac imaging  .
As a mathematical term , Ejection Fraction is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick in  हृदय  output .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography , Computed Tomography  ,  Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have definitively allowed clinically relevant mathematics  regarding   ischemia  , Congenital Heart Disease  और  Heart Failure .
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south state highway in the U.S. state of California  ,  largely in the Mojave  मरुस्थल  .
The southern portion of the highway is signed as the Antelope Valley Freeway .
The route connects Interstate 5 , or Golden State Freeway , near Santa Clarita and with U.S. Route 395 near Inyokern .
Legislatively , the  रूट  extends south of I-5 to State Route 1 in the Pacific Palisades area of Los  एंजिल्स  , however the portion south of the junction with I-5 has  नहीं  been constructed .
the  southern  भाग  of  the  constructed route is a busy  commuter  freeway serving and connecting the communities of Santa Clarita , Palmdale and Lancaster with the rest of the Greater Los Angeles area .
the  northern portion , from Vincent (  दक्षिण  of Palmdale ) to Route 395 , is legislatively named the Aerospace  राजमार्ग  , as the highway serves Edwards Air  फ़ोर्स  Base , once one of the primary  लैंडिंग  strips for NASA 's Space Shuttle .
This section is  ग्रामीण  ,  following  the line  between  the hot  mojave  desert and the forming Sierra Nevada mountain range .
Most of Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a main  लकीर  of the Southern Pacific Railroad  ,   प्रयुक्त  for the  antelope  Valley Line of the Metrolink commuter rail system as  खूब  as a connection between Los Angeles and the California Central Valley via Tehachapi Pass .
Linked with US 395  ,  this road connects Los Angeles with such places as Mammoth Mountain , Mono Lake , Yosemite National Park and Reno , Nevada .
Route 14 was part of U.S. Route 6 prior to truncation in 1964 , when U.S. 6 was a coast-to-coast route from Long Beach to Provincetown , Massachusetts .
The non-freeway segment of SR 14 from Silver Queen Road north of  rosamond  to Mojave is known as Sierra  राजमार्ग  , as is the old routing between Interstate  5  and Silver Queen  सड़क  where SR 14 has been moved to a newer freeway alignment  .
Portions of Route 14 remain signed with names associated with US 6 , including Midland Trail , Theodore  रूज़वेल्ट  Highway and Grand Army of the Republic Highway .
This route is part of the California Freeway and Expressway  प्रणाली  .
Blindness is  the  condition of lacking visual perception due to physiological or neurological factors .
विभिन्न  scales have been developed to describe the extent of vision  घाटा  and define blindness .
Total blindness is the complete lack of form and visual light perception and is  clinically  recorded as NLP , an abbreviation for `` no light perception . ''
Blindness is frequently used  to  describe severe visual impairment  साथ  vision .
Those  वर्णित  as having only light perception have no more sight than the ability to tell  लाइट  from dark and the general direction of a light  सोर्स  .
To determine which people may need special assistance because of their visual disabilities  ,  various governmental  jurisdictions  have formulated more complex  परिभाषाएं  referred to as  विधिक  blindness .
In North America and most  of  Europe  ,  legal blindness is defined as visual acuity ( vision ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better eye with best correction possible .
इस  means that a legally blind individual would have to stand from an object to see it—with corrective  lenses  —with the same degree of clarity  as  a normally sighted person could from  .
In many areas , people with average acuity who nonetheless have a visual field of less than  20  degrees ( the norm being 180 degrees ) are also classified as  होने  legally blind .
Approximately ten percent of those deemed legally blind , by any measure , have no vision .
The rest have some vision , from light perception alone  to   अपेक्षाकृत   शुभ  acuity .
Low vision is sometimes used to describe visual acuities from 20/70 to  20/200  .
By the 10th Revision  of  the WHO International Statistical  वर्गीकरण   of   रोगों  , Injuries and Causes of Death , low vision is defined as visual acuity  of  less than 20/60 ( 6/18 ) , but equal  to  or better than 20/200 ( 6/60 ) , or corresponding  विज़ुअल   फ़ील्ड  loss to less than 20 degrees , in the better eye  साथ  best possible correction .
Blindness is defined  as  visual acuity of less than 20/400  (  6/120 ) , or corresponding visual field loss to less than 10 degrees ,  in  the better eye with  बेहतरीन  possible correction .
Blind  लोगों  with undamaged eyes may still register light non-visually for the purpose of  circadian  entrainment to the  24-hour  light/dark cycle .
Light signals for this purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic tract and are  नहीं  affected  by   ऑप्टिक  nerve  क्षति  beyond where the retinohypothalamic tract exits .
Earl Simmons ( born December 18 , 1970 ) , better known by his stage names DMX and Dark Man X , is an American rapper and  कर्ता  .
In 1999 , DMX released his best-selling album  ...  And Then There Was X  ,  which featured the hit single  ``  Party Up ( Up in Here ) `` .
He has acted in films such as Belly , Romeo Must Die , Exit Wounds , Cradle 2 The Grave , and  पिछला  Hour .
In 2006 , he starred in  the  reality television series  ,  which was primarily aired on the  शर्त  cable  टेलीविज़न   संजाल  .
In 2003 , DMX published a book  of  his memoirs entitled , E.A.R.L . : The Autobiography of DMX .
DMX released a mixtape The Weigh  in  as a prelude/promotion towards his album Undisputed ( 2012 ) .
DMX has sold over 30 million records worldwide , making him one of the  best-selling  hip-hop artists of all time .
Professional certification , trade certification , or professional designation , often called simply certification or qualification , is a designation earned by a  व्यक्ति   to  assure qualification to perform a job or task .
Not all certifications that use  post-nominal  letters are an acknowledgement of educational achievement , or  an  agency appointed to safeguard  the  public interest .
Bugs Bunny is a funny animal  कार्टून  character , best remembered for his starring roles in the Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies series of theatrical  छोटी  films produced by Warner Bros. during the  सुनहरी  age of American animation .
His popularity during this era led to his becoming a corporate mascot of  warner  Bros. Entertainment .
Bugs is an  anthropomorphic  gray hare or rabbit who is famous for  उसके  flippant  ,  personality , a pronounced New York accent , his portrayal as a trickster ,  और  his catch phrase `` Eh ...
What 's up , doc ? ''
( usually  कहा  while chewing a carrot ) .
Bugs has appeared in more films than any other cartoon character and is the  नवीं  most portrayed film personality in the world .
According to his 1990 `` biography '' Bugs Bunny : 50 Years and Only One Grey  हरे  , Bugs  थी  born on July 27 , 1940 in Brooklyn , New York  in  a warren under Ebbets Field , home of the Brooklyn Dodgers  .
in  reality , he was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon Schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros. Cartoons ) : including Tex Avery ,  जो   निर्देशित  Bugs ' early definitive short A Wild Hare ( 1940 )  ;  Robert McKimson , who created Bugs ' definitive character design ; and Mel Blanc , who originated the voice of Bugs .
The mucous membranes ( or  mucosae  or  mucosas  ; singular mucosa ) are linings of mostly endodermal origin  ,   covered  in epithelium , which are involved in absorption and secretion .
वे  line cavities that are exposed to  the  external environment and internal  अंगों  .
They are at several places contiguous with skin :  at  the nostrils , the lips of the mouth , the eyelids , the ears , the genital area , and  the  anus  .
The sticky , thick fluid secreted by the mucous membranes and glands is termed mucus .
The term mucous  झिल्ली  refers to where they are found in the  देह  and not every mucous membrane secretes mucus .
The glans clitoridis , glans penis ( head of the penis ) , along with  the  inside of the foreskin and the clitoral hood , are mucous membranes .
The urethra is also a mucous membrane .
The secreted mucus traps the pathogens  in  the body , preventing any further activities of diseases .
A  निपुण  sergeant is the military rank for a senior non-commissioned officer in some armed forces .
Cake is a form of bread or bread-like food .
In its modern  फ़ॉर्म  , it  is  typically a sweet baked dessert .
In its oldest forms , cakes were normally fried breads or cheesecakes , and normally had a disk shape .
determining  whether a given food  चाहिए  be classified as bread , cake , or pastry can be difficult .
Modern  केक  , especially layer  cakes  , normally contain  a  combination  of  flour , sugar ,  अंडे  , and  मक्खन  or oil  ,  with some varieties  भी  requiring liquid ( typically milk or water  )   और  leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ) .
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées , nuts , dried or candied fruit , or extracts are often added , and numerous substitutions for the  प्राथमिक  ingredients are possible .
Cakes are often filled with fruit  preserves  or dessert sauces  (   जैसे  pastry cream )  ,  iced with buttercream or other icings , and decorated with marzipan ,  piped  borders or candied fruit .
Cake is often the dessert of choice for meals  at  ceremonial occasions , particularly weddings , anniversaries ,  और  birthdays  .
There are countless cake  व्यंजनों  ; some are  bread-like  ,  कुछ  rich and elaborate , and many are centuries old .
Cake making is no longer a complicated procedure ; while at  एक  time considerable labor went into cake making (  विशेषकर  the whisking of egg  foams   )  , baking equipment and directions have been simplified  so  that  भी  the most amateur cook may bake a cake .
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker Messner (  कूच  7 , 1942 – July 20 , 2007 ) was an American Christian singer  ,  evangelist , entrepreneur , author , talk show host , and  टेलीविज़न  personality .
She was married from 1961 to 1992 to televangelist , and later convicted felon , Jim  bakker   .
She co-hosted with  उसे  on The PTL Club (  1976–1987  ) .
She  थी  a participant in the 2004  ऋतु  of the reality show The  surreal  Life .
Cambria  is  a village in Columbia  काउंटी  , Wisconsin  ,  United States .
the   जनसांख्यिकी  was 767 at  the  2010 census .
It is part of the Madison Metropolitan Statistical Area .
Public  नीति  is the principled guide to action taken by the administrative executive branches of  the  state with regard to a class of issues in a manner consistent with law and institutional customs .
In general , the foundation is the pertinent  नेशनल  and substantial constitutional law and implementing legislation such  as  the US  संघीय  code .
Further substrates include both judicial interpretations  और  regulations  जिससे  are generally authorized by legislation .
Other scholars define it as a system of `` courses of action , regulatory measures , laws , and funding priorities concerning a given topic promulgated by a governmental entity or its  प्रतिनिधि  . ''
Public policy is commonly embodied `` in constitutions , legislative acts  ,  and judicial  निर्णय  . ''
In  the   संयुक्त  States , this  अवधारणा  refers not only  to  the  परिणाम  of policies , but more  broadly  to the decision-making and analysis of governmental decisions .
As  an   अकादमिक  discipline , public policy is studied by professors  और  students at public policy schools  of  major universities throughout the country .
The U.S. professional association of public policy practitioners , researchers , scholars , and students is the Association  लिये   पब्लिक  Policy Analysis and Management .
Digestion  is  the mechanical and  रासायनिक   विश्लेषण  of food into  छोटी  components that  हैं  more easily absorbed into a blood stream , for instance  .
Digestion  is   a  form  of  catabolism : a breakdown of large food molecules to smaller ones  .
When food enters the mouth , digestion of the food starts by  the   कार्रवाई  of mastication , a form of mechanical digestion , and the wetting contact  of  saliva .
Saliva , a liquid secreted  by  the salivary glands , contains salivary amylase , an enzyme which starts the digestion of starch in the food .
After undergoing mastication and starch digestion , the food will  be  in the form of a small , round slurry mass called  a  bolus .
It  होगा  then travel down the esophagus and into the stomach by the action of peristalsis .
Gastric juice in the stomach starts protein  पाचन  .
Gastric juice mainly contains hydrochloric acid and  pepsin  .
As these two chemicals may damage the stomach wall , mucus is secreted by the stomach , providing a slimy layer that acts as a shield against the damaging effects of the chemicals .
At  the  same time protein digestion is occurring , mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis , which are waves of muscular contractions that move along the stomach wall .
This allows the mass of food to further mix with the digestive enzymes .
After some time ( typically an hour or two in humans , 4–6 hours in dogs , somewhat shorter duration in house cats ) , the resulting  मोटा  liquid  is  called chyme .
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens  ,  chyme enters the duodenum  जहाँ  it mixes  साथ   digestive  enzymes  इससे  the pancreas , and then passes through the small intestine , in which digestion continues  .
When the chyme is fully digested , it is absorbed into the blood .
95 % of absorption of nutrients occurs in the small intestine .
Water and minerals are reabsorbed back into the blood in  the  colon (  विशाल   आंत  ) where the pH is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9  .
Some vitamins , such  as  biotin and vitamin K ( K2MK7 ) produced by bacteria in the colon are also absorbed into the blood in the colon .
Waste material is  eliminated  from the rectum during defecation .
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547 )  थी  king of England from 21 April 1509 until his death .
He was lord , and later king , of Ireland ,  as   खूब  as continuing the nominal claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom  of  France .
Henry was the second monarch of the Tudor  राजवंश  , succeeding his  पिता  , Henry VII .
Besides his six marriages , Henry VIII  is   ज्ञात  for his role in the separation  of  the Church of  इंग्लैण्ड  from the Roman Catholic  गिरिजाघर  .
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the Church of  इंग्लैण्ड  from papal authority  ,  the Dissolution of the Monasteries , and his own establishment as  the  Supreme Head of the  गिरिजाघर  of England .
Yet he remained a believer  in  core Catholic theological teachings , even after his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and Wales  साथ  the Laws  in  Wales  अधिनियमों   1535  and 1542 .
in  1513 , the new king allied with the Holy Roman  सम्राट  , Maximillian I  ,  and invaded France in 1513  साथ  a large ,  well-equipped  army , but achieved little at a considerable financial cost .
Maximillian ,  लिये  his part , used the English invasion to his own ends , and this prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the French .
This foray  होता  prove the start of an obsession for Henry , who invaded  again  in 1544 .
इस  time , Henry  's  forces captured the  महत्वपूर्ण  city of Boulogne , but again the Holy Roman Emperor , Charles V , supported Henry only  as  long as he needed to and England  ,  strained by the enormous cost of the war , ransomed the  नगर  back for peace  .
His  contemporaries  considered Henry  in  his prime to be an attractive , educated  और  accomplished king , and he has  महरूम  described as `` one of the most  charismatic  rulers to sit on the English throne '' .
Besides ruling with absolute power , he also engaged himself as an author and composer .
His desire  to  provide  इंग्लैण्ड  with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he  believed  a daughter would be unable  to  consolidate the  ट्यूडर  dynasty  और  the fragile peace that existed following  the  Wars of the Roses – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation .
Henry became morbidly obese  और  his health suffered , contributing  to   उसके  death in 1547 .
He is frequently characterised in his later  जीवन  as a lustful , egotistical , harsh  ,  and insecure king .
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) are an  afro-cuban   percussion  instrument .
The drums are of different size :  the  larger drum is  पुकारा   in  Spanish  the  hembra ( female )  और  the smaller the macho ( male ) .
They are membranophones , or instruments that create sound by a vibration of a  stretched  membrane .
Different religious groups  शामिल  different books in their Biblical canons , in varying orders , and sometimes divide or combine books , or incorporate additional material into canonical books .
Christian Bibles range from the  sixty-six  books of the Protestant canon to the eighty-one  किताबे   of  the Ethiopian  परंपरागत  Tewahedo Church canon  .
The  यहूदी  Bible , or Tanakh , contains twenty-four books divided into three parts ; the five books  of  the Torah (  ``   शिक्षण  '' or ``  विधि  '' ) , the Nevi'im ( `` prophets '' )  ,  and the Ketuvim (  ``  writings '' ) .
the  first part of Christian Bibles is the Old Testament  ,  which contains , at minimum , the twenty-four books of the Hebrew Bible divided into thirty-nine  किताबे  and ordered differently from the Hebrew Bible .
The Catholic Church  और  Eastern Christian churches  भी  hold certain deuterocanonical books and passages to be part of the Old Testament canon .
The second part is the New Testament , containing  twenty-seven  books ; the four  canonical  gospels , Acts of the Apostles  ,  twenty-one  epistles  or letters and the Book of Revelation .
The Eastern Orthodox , Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches may have minor differences in their  सूचियाँ  of accepted books .
the  list given here for these  चर्च  is the most inclusive : if  at   तनिक   एक  Eastern church accepts the  किताब  it  is  included here .
The national  ध्वज  of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the  अमरीकी  flag ,  consists  of thirteen equal  आड़ा  stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white , with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged  in  nine offset horizontal rows of six stars (  शीर्ष  and bottom  )  alternating with rows of five stars .
the  50 stars on the flag  represent  the 50 states of the United States of  अमेरिका   और   the  13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared  स्वतंत्रता  from  the  Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union .
nicknames  for the flag include the `` Stars and  धारियाँ  '' , `` Old Glory `` , and `` The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
Dred Scott v. Sandford , , also known as the Dred Scott Decision , was a landmark decision by the U.S.  परम्  Court .
It made two main rulings .
the  first ruling was that African-Americans were not citizens , and therefore had no standing  to  sue in federal court .
The second ruling was that the federal government had no power  to  regulate slavery in any territory acquired subsequent to the creation of the United States .
Given the first  सत्ताधारी   ,  most scholars and many contemporary political  आंकड़े  ( including the leadership of the then-new  रिपब्लिकन  Party ) considered that the second ruling was  नहीं  binding precedent  ,  but mere dictum .
The rationale  of  the  परम्  Court regarding the jurisdictional  सत्ताधारी  implied that people of African descent ( both slave and  फ़्री  ) were not protected by the Constitution and were not U.S. citizens .
Since passage of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution ,  दोनो   rulings  are  superseded  and no longer valid precedent  .
Nonetheless , the case retains historical significance as it is widely regarded as the worst decision ever made by the  परम्  Court .
The  राय  of the court  ,  written by Chief Justice Roger B. Taney , stirred debate .
The decision was 7–2 , and every Justice besides Taney wrote a separate concurrence or  dissent  .
For the first time since Marbury v. Madison , the Court held an Act  of  Congress to be unconstitutional .
Dred Scott , an African-American slave , had asked a United States Circuit Court to award him his freedom because he and his master had resided in a state ( Illinois ) and a territory ( Wisconsin Territory )  जहाँ  slavery had been banned .
Chief Justice Roger Taney , writing for the court , held that Scott , as a person of African ancestry , was not a  नागरिक  of the United States and  इसलिए  had no right to sue  in  federal court .
This holding was contrary to the practice of numerous states at the time , particularly Free states , where free blacks did in fact enjoy the rights of citizens , such as the right to vote  और  hold public office .
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum , the Court went on to hold that Congress had no authority to prohibit slavery in federal territories because slaves are personal property and the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution protects property owners against deprivation of their  प्रॉपर्टी  without due process of law .
In reaching this decision ,  taney  had  hoped  to settle the growing controversy surrounding slavery in the United States , but it had the opposite effect .
The decision was fiercely debated across the country , as perhaps best exemplified by the Lincoln–Douglas  debates  of 1858 .
Abraham Lincoln , the  second-ever  Republican nominee for President , was able to win the presidential election in 1860 ; the  stopping  of the further expansion of slavery was a key Republican party plank .
The decision played an important role in the timing of state  secession  and the Civil War , although it is extreme to say the decision  ``  caused '' the war .
The decision is acknowledged  लिये   the  influential  भूमिका  it played  in  altering  the  national political landscape  :  it is credited with launching Abraham Lincoln’s national political career and ultimately allowing for his election .
Although the Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case , the Court stated  in  the Slaughter-House Cases that at least one part of it had already been overruled by the Fourteenth  amendment  in 1868 , which begins by stating , `` All persons born or naturalized in the United  राज्य  , and subject to the  क्षेत्राधिकार  thereof , are citizens  of  the United States and of the State wherein  वे  reside . ''
To which  the  Court noted:
The first observation we have to make on this clause is , that it puts at rest  दोनो  the questions which we stated to have been the subject of differences of opinion .
It declares that persons may be citizens of the United States without regard to their citizenship  of  a particular State , and it  overturns   the  Dred Scott decision by making all persons  born   भीतर  the United States and  विषय   to  its jurisdiction citizens of the United States .
There are dozens of neighborhoods in Columbus , Ohio .
Some are hard  to  define  ,  as they encompass large areas developed at  अलग  times—often with sub-neighborhoods  भीतर  them .
Borders can also  बदलें  based on popular understanding of the area , as well as the whims of the residents .
This  आलेख  uses data from the Datasourcecolumbus Web site , Spotcrime.com , HelloColumbus.com , as well as the various Columbus Area Commissions to define the various  क्षेत्रों  .
Excerpts  और  border information are drawn directly from the main articles .
A biologist is a scientist who studies living organisms and their relationship to their environment .
Biologists involved in basic research attempt to discover underlying mechanisms that govern how organisms work .
Biologists involved in applied research attempt  to  develop or improve medical , industrial or agricultural  प्रक्रियाओं  .
martinus  Willem Beijerinck , a botanist and microbiologist
Base jumping from  a  cliff in a wingsuit .
BASE  कूद  , also sometimes written as B.A.S.E  .  jumping , is an activity where participants jump from fixed objects and use a parachute to break their fall .
`` BASE '' is an  एक्रोनिम  that stands for four categories of fixed objects from  जिससे  one can jump : buildings , antennas , spans ( bridges ) , and earth ( cliffs ) .
The British  shorthair  is a domesticated  बिल्ली  whose features make it a  लोकप्रिय  breed in cat shows .
It has been the most popular breed of cat registered by  the  UK 's  शासी  Council of the Cat Fancy ( GCCF ) since  2001  , when it overtook the Persian breed .
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior National Team , commonly known as the United States  मेन  's national basketball team , represents the United States of America in international men 's  बास्केट  .
The USA is the  सबसे  successful team in international competition  ,   जीतना  medals in  सब  seventeen Olympic tournaments it has  डाला  ,  coming  away with fourteen golds .
Two of its gold medal-winning squads were  inducted  to  the   naismith  Memorial  बास्केट  Hall of  कीर्ति  as teams in  अगस्त  2010—the 1960 team , which featured six  हॉल  of Famers ( 4 players , 2 coaches ) , and the 1992 `` Dream Team '' ,  featuring   14  Hall of Famers ( 11 players  ,  3 coaches ) .
The United States is  फिलहाल  ranked first in  the  FIBA World Rankings .
Traditionally composed of amateur players , a 1989 rule change  by  FIBA allowed USA Basketball to field teams with professional players .
The first such team , known as the `` Dream Team '' , won the gold medal  at  the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona  ,  Spain ,  playing  in the final against Croatia .
With the introduction of professionals , the team was able to  चिंगारी  a second run of dominance after capturing only a bronze medal in 1988 .
A team of  पेशेवर  players competed at  the  1994 FIBA World Championship , finishing first .
In 1996 , 2000 , 2008 , and  2012  the USA  again  captured gold medals .
Facing increased competition , the USA  विफल  to win a  पदक  at the  2002   fiba  World Championship , finishing  छठे  .
The 2004 Summer Olympic team lost three games on its way to a bronze medal , a record  कि   represented  more losses in a single year than  the   देश  's  ओलम्पिक  teams had suffered in all previous Olympiads combined .
Determined to put an end to these failures , USA Basketball initiated a long-term project aimed at creating better , more cohesive teams .
The USA won its first seven games at the  2006  FIBA World  चैंपियनशिप  in Japan before losing against Greece  in  the semi-finals , ending  the   प्रतियोगिता  with the bronze  पदक  .
The USA won gold two years later  ,  though , at the  2008  Summer Olympics with a dominant performance .
This success was  followed  up at the 2010 FIBA World Championship , where despite  क्षेत्ररक्षण   a  roster featuring no  खिलाड़ी  from the  2008  Olympic team , the  यूएसए  did not lose a single game en  रूट  to defeating  मेजबान  Turkey for the gold medal .
the  USA continued this streak of dominance by going undefeated and capturing gold once more at  the  2012 Summer Olympics .
The Steelers Super Bowl XL ring
Joe Theismann 's Super Bowl Ring (  सही  )
The  सुपर  Bowl  रिंग  is an award in the National Football League given to  the  winners of the league 's annual World Championship game  ,  the Super Bowl .
Since only one Vince Lombardi Trophy is awarded to the team ( ownership ) itself , the Super Bowl ring offers a collectible memento for the actual  खिलाड़ी  and team members to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory .
Image showing the six most common speleothems with labels .
to view labels .
The Witch  's  Finger in the Carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ;  इससे  the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês ,  इससे  σταλαγμίας - stalagmias , `` dropping , trickling '' ) is a  प्रकार  of speleothem that rises from the floor of a limestone cave due to the dripping of mineralized solutions and the deposition of calcium carbonate .
This stalagmite formation occurs only  अंतर्गत  certain pH conditions within the underground cavern .
the   सम्बन्धित  formation on the ceiling  of  a cave  is  known as a stalactite .
If these formations grow  साथ  , the result is known as a column .
The Hall of Giants in the Carlsbad Caverns
Stalagmites should normally not be touched , since the rock buildup is  formed  by  खनिज  precipitating out of the water solution onto the old surface ; skin  oils  can alter  the  surface where the mineral water will cling  ,  thus affecting the  विकास  of the formation .
oils  and dirt from human contact can also stain the formation and change its color permanently .
Similar structures can also form  in  lava tubes , associated with some types of lavacicles , although  the  mechanism of formation is very different .
Stalactites and stalagmites can  भी  form on concrete ceilings and floors , although they form much more rapidly there than in the natural  गुफा  environment .
The largest stalagmite in the  संसार  is high and is located in the  गुफा  of Cueva Martin Infierno , Cuba .
In the Zagros Mountains of south Iran , approximately from the ancient city of Bishapur , in the  shapur  cave on the fourth of  पाँच  terraces stands the 3rd century CE statue of Shapur I , second ruler of the Sassanid Empire .
The statue , carved from one stalagmite , is nearly high .
How I Met Your Mother is  an  American sitcom that premiered on CBS on September 19 , 2005 .
The show was created by  क्रेग  Thomas and Carter Bays .
How I  मिले  Your Mother is framed by the year 2030 , when Ted Mosby  (  voiced by Bob Saget ) gathers his daughter ( Lyndsy Fonseca ) and son ( David Henrie ) to tell them  the  story of how he met their mother .
We flashback to where it begins in 2005  साथ  Ted Mosby ( Josh  radnor  ) as a single ,  27-year-old  architect living with his two best friends from Wesleyan University , Marshall Eriksen ( Jason Segel ) , a law student , and Lily Aldrin  (  Alyson Hannigan ) ,  a  kindergarten  टीचर  , who have been dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes .
Their engagement  कल्याणकारी  Ted to think about finding his own soul  mate  , much to the disgust of his  dost  Barney Stinson ( Neil Patrick Harris )  ,  a womanizer with  an  unnamed corporate job .
And thus , Ted begins  उसके  search for his perfect mate , and meets Robin Scherbatsky ( Cobie Smulders )  ,  whom he also befriends .
The 100th episode of How I Met Your Mother aired on January 11 , 2010 .
On December 21 , 2012 , the series was renewed for  a  ninth season .
On January 30  ,  2013 , it  थी  announced that Season 9 will be its final season .
Gringo ( , , ) is a slang Spanish and Portuguese word used in Ibero-America , to  denote  foreigners , often from  the  United  राज्य  .
The term can be applied to someone who is actually a foreigner , or it can denote a strong  संघ  or assimilation into foreign ( particularly US  )  society and culture .
In Spanish it  करता  not have a negative connotation .
रोजर  Axtell  ,  a travel etiquette expert , notes that ``  [  t ]  he  word gringo is not necessarily a bad word .
It is slang but is derogatory only in its use and context  .  ''
The word was used in Spain long before it crossed the Atlantic to denote foreign , non-native speakers of Spanish .
The great white shark , Carcharodon carcharias , also known as the great white , white pointer , white  शार्क  , or white death , is a species of large lamniform shark which can be found in the  तटीय  surface waters of all the major oceans .
The great white shark is mainly known for its size , with the largest individuals known to have approached or exceeded in length , and in weight .
This shark reaches its  परिपक्वता  around 15 years  of  age and can have a  जीवन  span of over 30 years .
The great white shark is arguably the world 's largest known extant macropredatory fish , and is one of the primary predators of marine mammals .
It is also known to prey upon a variety of other marine  पशु  , including fish and seabirds .
It is  the  only known surviving species of its genus Carcharodon , and is ranked first in  having  the most attacks on humans .
The IUCN list the great white shark  as  a vulnerable species , while it is included in Appendix II of CITES .
The bestselling novel Jaws by Peter Benchley and the subsequent  ब्लॉकबस्टर  film by Steven Spielberg depicted the great white shark as a `` ferocious  man  eater `` .
In reality ,  इंसानो   हैं  not the preferred prey  of  the great white shark .
The United States  हथियारबंद  Forces are the military forces of the United States of America .
They consist of the Army  ,  Navy  ,  Marine Corps  ,  Air Force , and Coast Guard .
The U.S. has a  दमदार  tradition of civilian control of the military .
The President is the military 's overall  सिर   ,  and helps form military policy with the U.S.  विभाग   of  Defense ( DoD ) , a federal executive department , acting  as  the principal organ  by  which military policy is  carried  out  .
The DoD is headed by the Secretary of Defense  ,  who is a civilian and Cabinet member .
The Defense Secretary is second in the military  's  chain of command , just below the President , and serves as the principal assistant to the President in all  dod-related  matters .
To coordinate military action with  कूटनीति  , the President has an advisory National Security Council headed by  a  National Security Advisor  .
Both the President and Secretary of Defense are advised by  a   seven-member  Joint Chiefs of Staff , which includes the head of each of the Defense Department 's service branches as well as the chief  of  the National Guard Bureau .
Leadership is provided by  the  Chairman  of  the Joint Chiefs of Staff  और  the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .
the  Commandant of  the  Coast Guard is not a member of the Joint Chiefs of  स्टाफ  .
All of the  शाखाओं  work together during operations and joint missions , under the Unified Combatant Commands ,  अंतर्गत  the authority of the Secretary of Defense with the exception of the Coast Guard .
The Coast Guard falls under the administration of  the  Department of Homeland Security and receives its operational orders  इससे  the Secretary of Homeland Security .
The Coast  गार्ड  may be transferred to the Department of the Navy by the President or Congress during a time  of  war .
All five armed  सेवाएं   हैं  among the seven  uniformed  services of the United States ; the others are the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned  corps   और  the National  oceanic   और  Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps  .
From the time of its inception , the  सैन्य  played a decisive role in the history  of  the  संयुक्त  States .
A sense  of  national unity and identity was forged as a result of victory in the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary War .
Even so  ,  the Founders  यहूद  suspicious of a permanent military  फ़ोर्स  and not until the outbreak  of  World  युद्ध  II did a large standing army become  officially  established .
The National Security  अधिनियम  of  1947  , adopted following World War II and during the Cold War 's onset , created the modern U.S. military framework ;  the  Act merged  previously  Cabinet-level Department of War and the Department of the Navy into the National Military Establishment ( renamed the Department of Defense in 1949 ) , headed by the Secretary of Defense ; and created the Department  of  the  एयर  Force and National Security Council .
The U.S. military is one  of  the largest militaries  in  terms of number of personnel .
It draws its manpower from a large  पूल  of paid volunteers ; although conscription has been used in the past in various times of both war and peace , it has not been used since 1972 .
As of 2013 , the U.S. spends about $ 554.2 billion  annually  to fund its military forces , and  appropriates  approximately $ 88.5 billion to fund Overseas  आकस्मिकता   परिचालन   .
Put together , the U.S. constitutes roughly 43 percent of the world 's military expenditures .
The U.S. Armed Forces as a whole possess large quantities of advanced and powerful equipment  ,  along with widespread placement of forces around the world , giving them significant  सामर्थ्य  in both defense and power projection .
Freedom of  वाक  is the political right to communicate one 's opinions and ideas using one 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive them .
the  term freedom of expression  is  sometimes used synonymously , but includes  कोई  act of seeking , receiving and imparting  सूचना  or ideas  ,  regardless of the medium used .
In practice , the right to freedom of speech is  नहीं  absolute in any  देश  and the right is commonly subject to limitations , as  साथ  libel , slander , obscenity , sedition ( including , for example inciting ethnic hatred ) , copyright violation , revelation  of  information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom of expression  is  recognized  as  a human right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human  अधिकारों  and recognized in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political  अधिकारों  ( ICCPR ) .
Article  19  of the  iccpr  states  कि  `` [ e ]  veryone   shall  have the right to hold opinions without  हस्तक्षेप  '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom  of  expression ; this right  shall  include freedom to seek , receive and impart information and ideas of  सब  kinds , regardless of frontiers , either orally , in writing or in print , in the  रूप  of art ,  or  through any other media of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to certain  प्रतिबंध   ''  when necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights  or  reputation of others  ''  or `` [ f  ]  or the protection  of  national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of public  स्वास्थ्य  or morals '' .
स्वतंत्रता  of speech may  be  legally curtailed in some religious  विधिक  systems and in secular jurisdictions  जहाँ  it is found  to  cause  धार्मिक  offense , such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act  2006  .
The Big Bang Theory  लोगो  .
The Big Bang Theory is an American comedy television series created and executive produced by Chuck Lorre  और  Bill Prady .
Like the name of the series itself ,  साथ  the exception of the first episode—  ''  Pilot '' —episode titles of The Big Bang  सिद्धान्त  always start with `` The ''  और  resemble the name of a scientific principle , theory or experiment , whimsically  referencing  a plot point or quirk .
,  133 episodes  have  aired .
The Big Bang  सिद्धान्त  has been renewed for a seventh season .
ड्वाइट  David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced , ; October 14  ,   1890  – March 28 , 1969 ) was the 34th President of the United States from  1953  until 1961  .
He had previously been a  five-star  general in the United States Army during World War II and served as Supreme Commander of the  अलाइड  Forces in Europe  ;  he had responsibility for planning and supervising the invasion of North Africa in Operation Torch in  1942–43  and the successful invasion of France and Germany in 1944–45 from the Western Front .
In 1951  ,  he became the first  परम्  commander of NATO .
आइज़नहावर  was  of  Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry and was reared in a large family  in  Kansas by parents with a robust work ethic and religious background .
As one of  छह  sons , he was conditioned  by  a competitive atmosphere which instilled self-reliance  .
He attended and graduated from West Point and later married and had two sons .
After World War II , Eisenhower served as  फौज  Chief of Staff under President Harry S. Truman , then assumed the post of President at Columbia University .
Eisenhower entered the 1952 presidential race as a Republican to counter the non-interventionism of Senator Robert A. Taft  और  to crusade against `` Communism , Korea and corruption '' .
He won by a landslide , defeating Democrat  adlai  Stevenson and ending two decades of the New Deal  गठबन्धन  .
In the first year of his presidency , Eisenhower deposed the  नेता  of Iran in the 1953 Iranian coup d'état and used nuclear threats to conclude the Korean War with China .
His New Look policy of nuclear deterrence gave priority to inexpensive nuclear  हथियार  while reducing the  funding  for conventional military forces ; the goal was to keep pressure on the Soviet Union and reduce federal deficits .
In 1954 , Eisenhower first articulated the  domino  theory in his  वर्णन  of the threat presented by the spread of communism .
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution , which enabled him to prevent  चाइनीज  communist aggression against Chinese nationalists and established the  u.S.  policy of defending Taiwan .
When  the   soviets  launched Sputnik in 1957 , he had to play catch-up in the space race .
Eisenhower  मजबूर  Israel , the UK , and France to end their  आक्रमण  of Egypt during the Suez Crisis of 1956  .
In 1958 , he sent 15,000 US troops to Lebanon to prevent the pro-Western government from falling to a Nasser -inspired revolution .
Near the end  of  his  पद  , his efforts  to  set  up  a summit meeting with the Soviets collapsed because of the U-2 incident .
On the domestic front , he covertly opposed Joseph McCarthy and contributed to the end of McCarthyism by  खुलकर  invoking the modern expanded version of executive privilege .
He otherwise left  सबसे  political activity to  उसके  Vice President ,  रिचर्ड  Nixon .
He was a moderate conservative  जो  continued New Deal agencies  और  expanded Social Security .
Among his enduring innovations , he launched the Interstate  राजमार्ग  System ; the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ( DARPA ) , which led to the internet , among many invaluable outputs ; the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (  नासा  ) , driving peaceful discovery in space ; the establishment of strong  विज्ञान  education via the National Defense Education Act  ;  and encouraging peaceful use of nuclear power via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act .
in  social  नीति  , he sent federal troops to  छोटी  Rock , Arkansas , for the first  समय  since Reconstruction to enforce  संघीय  court orders to desegregate public schools .
He also signed civil rights legislation in 1957 and 1960 to  protect  the right to vote .
He implemented desegregation of the armed forces in two years and made five appointments to the Supreme Court .
He was the  पहला  term-limited president in accordance with the  22nd  Amendment .
Eisenhower 's two terms were peaceful ones for the most part and saw considerable economic prosperity except  लिये  a sharp recession in 1958–59 .
Eisenhower is often  क्रमित   अत्यधिक  among the U.S. Presidents .
Air Force One is the official air traffic control call sign of a United States Air Force aircraft carrying the President of the United States .
In common parlance  the   पद  refers to those Air Force aircraft specifically designed , built , and used for the purpose of transporting the president .
The Presidential  वायुयान  is a prominent symbol of  the  American presidency and its power .
The  विचार  of designating  विशिष्ट  military aircraft to transport the President arose in 1943 , when officials of the United States Army  एयर  Forces – the predecessor to the U.S. Air Force – became concerned with relying on commercial airlines to transport the  अध्यक्ष  .
A C-87 Liberator Express was reconfigured for use as a presidential transport ; however , it was rejected by the Secret Service amid concerns over  the  aircraft 's safety record .
A C-54 Skymaster was then converted for presidential use  ;   इस  aircraft , dubbed the Sacred Cow , transported  अध्यक्ष  Franklin D. Roosevelt to the Yalta Conference in February 1945 , and was subsequently used  लिये  another two years by President  हैरी  S. Truman .
The `` Air Force One '' call sign was created after a 1953 incident during which  a  flight carrying President Dwight D. Eisenhower entered the same airspace as a commercial airline  उड़ान  using the same call sign .
Several aircraft have been used as Air  फ़ोर्स  One since the creation of the presidential fleet , including two Boeing  707s  introduced  in   the   1960s  and 1970s , respectively ; since 1990 , the  अध्यक्षीय  fleet  रै  consisted of two  बोइंग  VC-25As – specifically configured  ,  highly customized  बोइंग  747-200B series aircraft .
The Air Force is looking into  replacing  the two VC-25 aircraft with  तीन  replacement aircraft beginning in 2017 .
A wedding anniversary is the anniversary of the date a wedding took place .
Traditional names exist  लिये  most of them  :  for instance , 50 years of marriage is called  a  `` golden wedding anniversary '' or  बस  a `` golden  वर्षगांठ  '' .
A scanner with Duplexing Automatic Document Feeder .
In multifunction or all-in-one  मुद्रक  , fax  मशीने  , photocopiers and scanners , an automatic document feeder  or  ADF is a feature  जिससे   takes   अनेक  pages  और  feeds  the  paper one page  at  a time into a  स्कैनर  or copier , allowing  the  user to scan , and  thereby  copy , print , or  फैक्स  , multiple-page documents without having to manually replace each page .
Most copiers allow scanning  on  the flatbed  or  platen ( the `` glass ''  )  or  through  a document  फीडर  .
The vast majority of fax machines have an ADF , allowing the unattended sending of multi-page faxes .
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax machines  ,  some fax machine owners use the fax machine as a  स्कैनर  , faxing multi-page documents to themselves .
Document feeders are described by speed ,  in  pages per minute  or  ppm , and capacity , usually in a range from 10 sheets to 200 .
There are two kinds of document feeders capable  of   two-sided  ( duplex ) scanning : a  reversing  automatic document feeder  or  RADF scans one side  of  a page , then flips it and scans the other side .
A  duplexing  automatic document feeder or DADF scans both  पहलू  in  एक  pass .
The advantage of the DADF is faster speed for two-sided originals .
RADFs and DADFs are rated in  बिंब  per minute ( IPM ) , the number of sides they can scan each  मिनट  .
Fair  पार्क  is a recreational and educational complex  स्तिथ  in Dallas  ,  Texas ( USA ) .
The complex is registered  as  a Dallas Landmark , National Historic Landmark and is home to nine museums , six performance  सुविधाएं  , a lagoon , and the largest Ferris wheel in North America .
Many of the buildings on the complex  यहूद  constructed for the Texas Centennial Exposition  in  1936 which drew over six million visitors .
सबसे  of the buildings built for  the  exposition still survive and  it  is recognized as a significant  उदाहरण  of Art Deco architecture .
मेला  Park has been designated a Great Place  in  America by the American Planning Association .
The American Planning Association (  apa  )  “is  an independent , not-for-profit educational organization that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The Great Places in American program helps to celebrate areas with “exemplary character , quality , and planning.”
होने  designated as a  ग्रेट  Place in  अमेरिका   ,  Fair Park was  एक   of  only ten cities chosen in 2011 .
San Jose ( ; Spanish  :  St. Joseph ) is the third-largest city in California , the tenth-largest in the U.S. , and the county seat of Santa Clara  काउंटी  which is located at the southern end  of  San Francisco Bay .
San Jose is the largest city within Silicon Valley , which  is   a  major component  of  the greater San Francisco Bay Area , a  प्रदेश  of 8.4 million people and the fifth largest metropolitan area ( CSA ) in the United States .
It is the largest city in Northern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
San Jose was  संस्थापित  on November 29 ,  1777  , as El  pueblo  de San José de Guadalupe , the first civilian town in the Spanish colony of Nueva California , which later became Alta California .
The city served  as  a farming  जातियाँ  to support Spanish  सैन्य  installations  at   सैन  Francisco and Monterey .
जब  California gained statehood in 1850 , San Jose served as its first capital .
After more  than  150 years as a  छोटी   खेती  city , San Jose and the surrounding Santa Clara Valley became the last ( and largest ) contiguous area of undeveloped land surrounding the  सैन  Francisco Bay .
San Jose experienced increased demand for housing from soldiers and veterans returning from World War II .
San Jose then continued its  आक्रामक  expansion during the 1950s and 1960s by annexing more land area .
The rapid growth of the high-technology and electronics  उद्योग  further  त्वरित  the transition from  an  agricultural center , to an urbanized metropolitan area .
By the  1990s  , San Jose 's location within the booming local technology industry earned the city its nickname , Capital of Silicon Valley .
San Jose now maintains global city status and  is  the  largest  city in the San Francisco Bay Area in  शर्तें  of population , land area , and industrial development  .
The U.S. Census Bureau reported the population of the  नगर  to be 945,942 as of the 2010 Census .
As of April 2013 ,  the  estimated population of San Jose was 984,000 .
San Jose , along with the  सांता  Clara Valley  ,  experienced about half  a  century of spectacular suburban sprawl , with characteristics of intense urbanization similar to the Los Angeles area of Southern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
The city has taken definite steps to avoid becoming `` L.A. North '' .
However , the sprawl in  सैन  Jose is worse than in Los Angeles by measures such  as  population density and public transit safety , investment , and ridership  .
Europe depicted  by  Antwerp cartographer Abraham Ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers the people inhabiting the European  महाद्वीप  since it was first populated in prehistoric times to present , with the first Homo sapiens arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 BC .
the  earliest settlers to Prehistoric  यूरोपीय  came during the  paleolithic  era .
The arrival of agriculture around 7000  bc   ushered  in the neolithic age  .
Neolithic Europe lasted for 4000  सालो  , overlapping with metal-using cultures that  धीरे   स्प्रेड  throughout the continent .
Technological advances during the prehistoric age tended to arrive  इससे  the Middle East , spreading  धीरे  to the northwest .
Some of the best-known civilizations  of  prehistoric Europe were  मिनोआई  and Mycenaean ,  जिससे  flourished during the Bronze Age until  वे  collapsed in  a  short period of time around 1200 BC .
The period known as classical antiquity began with the rise of the city-states of  प्राचीन  Greece .
यूनानी  influence reached its zenith  अंतर्गत  the expansive empire of Alexander the Great , spreading throughout Asia .
Northern and western Europe were dominated by  the  La  tène  culture , a precursor to the Celts .
Rome , a small city-state traditionally founded in 753  bc  , would grow to become the Roman Republic in  509  BC  और  would  सफल  Greek culture as the dominant Mediterranean civilization .
The events of the rule of Julius Caesar led to reorganization of the Republic into the Roman Empire .
The empire was later divided by the emperor Diocletian into the Western and Eastern empires .
During the later  सालो  of the Roman Empire ,  the  Germanic peoples of northern Europe grew in strength and repeated attacks led to the Fall of the Western Roman Empire in AD 476 , a date which traditionally marks the end of the classical period and the start of the Middle Ages .
During the Middle Ages , the Eastern Roman Empire survived , though modern historians refer to this state as the  बीज़ान्टिन  Empire .
In  पश्चिमी  Europe , Germanic peoples moved into positions of power in the remnants of the former Western Roman  साम्राज्य  and established kingdoms and empires of their own .
Of all of the Germanic peoples , the Franks would rise to  a  position of Hegemony over western Europe , the Frankish Empire reaching its  शिखर  under Charlemagne  around  AD  800  .
francia  was divided into several parts ; West Francia would evolve into the Kingdom of France , while East Francia would evolve into the Holy Roman Empire , a precursor to modern Germany .
The British Isles  यहूद  the site of several large-scale migrations .
देशी   सेल्टिक  peoples had been marginalized during the period of Roman  ब्रिटेन  ,  और  when the Romans abandoned  the  British Isles during  the  400s , waves of Germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated  to  southern Britain and established a series of petty kingdoms in what would eventually develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927  .
During this  काल  , the Kingdom of  कैंडल  and Kingdom of Hungary  (  1000–1945 ) were organized as well .
the  Viking Age , a period of  migrations  of Scandinavian peoples ,  वर्चस्व   the  period from the late 700s to the middle 1000s .
Chief among the Viking states was the Empire of Cnut the Great , a Danish leader who would become  किंग   of   इंग्लैण्ड  , Denmark , and Norway  .
The Normans , a Viking people who settled in Northern  फ़्रांस   और  founded  the  Duchy of Normandy , would have a significant impact on many parts  of  Europe  ,  from the Norman conquest of England to Southern Italy and  सिसिली  .
Another  scandinavian  people  ,  the Rus ' people ,  होता  go  on  to found Kievan  rus  ' , an early state which was a precursor for the modern  देश  of Russia .
As the Viking Age drew to a close , the period known as the Crusades , a series of religiously-motivated military  रिझाने  originally intended to bring the Levant back into  ईसाई  rule , began .
Several Crusader states were founded in the eastern Mediterranean .
These were all short-lived .
The Crusaders would have a profound impact on many  भाग  of Europe .
Their Sack of Constantinople in 1204 brought an abrupt end to the Byzantine Empire .
Extinct dog  breeds  is  a  compilation of dog  breeds  that have become extinct .
Wii Speak is  a  microphone accessory for  निन्टेंडो  's Wii video game console .
Connected to the  कंसोल  via  usb   ,  the device can  be  placed near the video display , allowing voice chat to be conducted with the entire  रूम  .
The  यंत्र  features an LED to indicate when the microphone  is  active  .
Wii Speak was announced at  निन्टेंडो  's 2008  e3  media briefing .
It was released separately and bundled  साथ  Animal Crossing : City Folk on November 16 ,  2008   ,  in North America , and was released on  दिसम्बर  5 , 2008 ,  in  Europe .
The Wii Speak accessory is  succeeded  by  the   अंतःस्थापित  microphone  on  the Wii U  's  GamePad controller .
Nissan Intelligent  key®
A smart key  is  an electronic access and  प्राधिकरण  system which is available as an option or standard in several cars  .
It was first developed by Siemens in the mid-1990s and introduced by Mercedes-Benz under the name  ``  Keyless Go '' in  1998  on the W220 S-Class following its design patent filed by Daimler-Benz on May 17 ,  1997  .
Univisión ( )  is  a Spanish-language television network in the United States .
The  संजाल  is primarily dedicated for Latin American families who reside in the United States .
It has the largest audience of Spanish-language television viewers  in  the world according  to  Nielsen ratings .
Randy Falco , ( CEO as of June 29 , 2011 ) COO , has been in charge of the company since  the  departure of Univision Communications president and CEO Joe Uva in April 2010 .
In recent years  the  network  रै  reached  पैरिटी  with the U.S. 's five major English-language television networks , and  is   प्रायः   a  strong fifth , outranking The CW , with some fourth-place weekly placings  ,  and as of 2012 , even first place  rankings  for individual programs  over  all five English networks due to the  संजाल  's consistent schedule of new  telenovelas  all 52 weeks of  the  year .
Univisión is headquartered in New York , and has its major studios , production  सुविधाएं  , and operations in  doral  , Florida , a suburb of Miami .
In 2009 , another television studio was  घोषित  , Univision Studios , to be built in Doral  .
Univision is  उपलब्धियाँ  on cable and satellite in most of the country , with local stations in  over  50 markets with large Hispanic and Latino populations  और  a national cable network feed distributed in markets without either  the  availability or the demand for a locally-based station .
Most  of  these stations air  पूरा  local news and other local programming in addition to network shows , and in major markets such as Los Angeles , New York , and Miami the local newscasts  carried  by the network 's  owned-and-operated  station ( O & O ) stations are equally competitive with their English-language counterparts ratings-wise .
Univisión was acquired on  कूच  29 , 2007 by  a  consortium led by Haim Saban 's Saban Capital Group ( who had previously owned the entity Saban Entertainment ) , TPG Capital , L.P. ,  विधाता  Equity Partners , Madison Dearborn Partners  ,  and Thomas H. Lee Partners for $  13.7  billion or $ 36.25 per  share  plus $ 1.4 billion in  acquired  debt .
The buyout left the company with a debt level of twelve times its  सालाना  cash flow , which was twice the norm in buyouts done over the previous two years  .
Artist 's conception of a protoplanetary disk
The formation and of the Solar System is estimated to have begun 4.6  अरब  years ago with the gravitational collapse of a small part  of  a giant molecular cloud .
Most of the collapsing mass collected in the centre , forming the Sun , while the rest flattened into a  आदिग्रह  disk out of which the planets , moons , asteroids , and other small Solar  प्रणाली  bodies formed .
This widely accepted model , known  as  the nebular hypothesis , was first developed in the 18th century by Emanuel Swedenborg , Immanuel Kant , and Pierre-Simon Laplace  .
Its subsequent development has  interwoven  a variety of scientific disciplines including astronomy , physics , geology , and planetary science .
Since the dawn  of  the space age in the 1950s and the discovery of extrasolar planets in the 1990s , the model has been both challenged  और  refined to account  लिये  new observations .
The Solar System has  विकसित  considerably since its initial formation  .
Many moons have formed from circling discs of gas and dust around their  जनक  planets ,  जबकि  other  moons  are thought to have formed independently and later been  captured  by their  ग्रह  .
Still others , as the Earth 's Moon , may  be  the result of giant collisions .
Collisions between bodies have occurred continually up to the present day and have been  सेंट्रल  to the evolution of the Solar System .
The positions of the planets often shifted , and planets have switched places .
This planetary  माइग्रेशन  is now thought to have been responsible for much of the  सौर  System 's early evolution .
In  roughly   5  billion  सालो  , the Sun will cool and expand  outward  many times its  वर्तमान  diameter ( becoming a red giant  )  , before casting off its outer layers as a planetary nebula and leaving  पीछे  a stellar remnant known as a white dwarf .
In the far distant  भविष्य  , the gravity  of  passing stars will gradually  reduce   the  Sun 's retinue of  ग्रह  .
Some planets will be destroyed  ,  others  ejected  into interstellar space .
ultimately  ,  over  the course of tens of billions  of  years , it is likely that  the  Sun will be left with none of the original bodies in orbit around it .
The Trial ( Kafka 's  असली  German title : , later as , and  )  is a novel written by Franz Kafka in 1914 and  1915  but not published  जबतक  1925 .
एक  of Kafka 's best-known works , it tells the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote ,  अभिगम्य  authority , with  the  nature of his crime revealed to neither  उसे   nor  the reader .
जैसे  Kafka 's other  novels  , The Trial was never completed , although it does include a chapter which brings the story to an end .
Because of this there are certain inconsistencies which exist within the novel  ,  such  as  disparities in timing in addition to other discontinuities in narration .
After Kafka 's death in 1924 his friend and literary executor Max Brod edited the text for  प्रकाशन  by  verlag  Die Schmiede .
The  असली   पाण्डुलिपि  is held at the Museum of Modern Literature , Marbach am  neckar  ,  जर्मनी   .
In 1999 , the  किताब  was listed in Le  mondes  100 Books of the Century and as No . 2  of   the  Best  जर्मनी  Novels of  the  Twentieth Century .
Lisa Anne Loeb ( born March 11 , 1968 ) is  an  American singer-songwriter and actress .
She launched her career in 1994 with the  सोंग  , `` Stay  (  I Missed You )  ``  , which was included in the film Reality Bites .
वो  was  the  first artist to have a number one single in the United States while not signed to a recording contract .
Her five studio CDs include her major label debut , the gold-selling Tails and its follow-up , the Grammy-nominated  ,  gold-selling Firecracker .
Loeb has also worked in film ,  टेलीविज़न  , voice-over  कार्य   और   children’s  recordings .
Loeb  रै  appeared in two television series ,  dweezil  & Lisa , a weekly culinary adventure for the  खाना  Network and Number 1 Single , a reality show on the E !
Network in 2006 focused on her quest  लिये  love , success  ,   करियर  , and family .
Her children 's music includes the albums Catch  the   चंद्रमा   (  2003 )  ,  and Camp Lisa ( 2008 ) .
उसके  first joint  children  's book and album Lisa  लोएब  's  पगली  Sing-Along : The Disappointing Pancake and Other Zany Songs was published in 2011  .
In 2010 she founded the Lisa Loeb Eyewear Collection ,  जिससे  is based on  उसके  own designs .
The Coat of arms  of  the State of New Jersey includes:
A shield with three  plows  emblazoned ,  प्रतिनिधि  of New Jersey 's  agricultural  tradition .
A forward-facing knight 's helmet .
A  घोड़ा   's  head as the crest of the helmet .
The female figures Liberty and Ceres , representative of  the  state 's motto ( see next item ) .
Liberty is holding a staff supporting  a  `` liberty cap `` ; Ceres is holding an overflowing cornucopia .
The streamer at the foot of the emblem contains the State Motto of New Jersey , `` Liberty and Prosperity '' , and the year of statehood ,  1776  .
it   थी  originally designed by Pierre Eugene du Simitiere in 1777 and was modified  थोड़ा  in 1928 .
The seal is  the  central  मोटिफ   in  the flag  of  New Jersey and the Great Seal of the State of  नई  Jersey .
The Coat of arms contains a horse 's head .
A helmet showing that New Jersey governs itself  तदनुसार  and three plows on a shield referring to the State 's agriculture tradition , giving it  the  nickname `` Garden State '' .
The two Goddesses represent the State motto , `` Liberty and Prosperity  ''  .
Liberty is on the  बाएँ  .
She is holding a staff with a liberty cap on it , and the word liberty underneath her .
The goddess on  the  right is Ceres , goddess of agriculture .
वो  is holding a cornucopia with prosperity written below  उसके  .
According to the minutes of the New  जर्सी  General  सभा  for March  11  ,  1896  , the date in which the Assembly officially approved  the  flag as the state emblem , the  buff  color is due indirectly to George Washington , who had ordered on October 2 , 1779 ,  कि  the uniform coats of the New Jersey  महाद्वीपीय  Line be dark ( Jersey ) blue , with buff facings .
Buff-colored facings had until then been reserved only  लिये  his own uniform and those of  अन्य  Continental generals and their aides .
Then ,  on  February 28 , 1780 , the Continental War Officers in Philadelphia directed that  the  uniform coat facings of all regiments were to be the same  as  the background color  of  the regiments ' state flag .
The seal  is   वर्णित  in New Jersey statute Title 52 , §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out ''  is  a song by the Beatles , written by Paul McCartney and John Lennon .
It was released as a `` double A-sided `` single with `` Day Tripper  ``   ,  the first time both sides of a single were so designated  in  an initial release .
Both songs were  अंकित  during the Rubber Soul sessions .
The song is an  उदाहरण  of Lennon–McCartney collaboration at a depth that happened only rarely after they wrote the hit singles  of  1963 .
This song , ``  a  Day in the Life `` , `` Baby , You 're a Rich Man `` and ``  i  've Got a Feeling `` , are among the notable exceptions .
As a  चिकित्सा  diagnosis , pedophilia or paedophilia is a psychiatric  विकार  in  व्यक्तियों   16  years of age or older typically characterized by a  प्राथमिक   or  exclusive sexual interest toward prepubescent children  (  generally age 11 years or younger , though specific diagnosis criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ) .
An adolescent who is 16 years of age or older must be at least five years older than the prepubescent child before the attraction can be diagnosed as pedophilia .
The term  रै  a range of definitions , as found in psychiatry , psychology , the vernacular , and law  प्रवर्तन  .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Classification of Diseases  (  ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` disorder of  वयस्क  personality and behaviour '' in which there  is  a sexual  वरीयता   लिये  children of prepubertal or early pubertal age  .
According to the  निदान  and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ) , it  is  a paraphilia in which adults or adolescents 16 years  of  age or older have  तीव्र  and  तूल  sexual urges towards and fantasies about prepubescent children that  वे  have either acted on or which cause them  तकलीफ  or interpersonal difficulty .
In popular usage  ,  pedophilia means any sexual interest in children or the act  of  child sexual abuse , often termed `` pedophilic behavior '' .
For example , The American Heritage  stedman  's Medical Dictionary  राज्य  , `` Pedophilia is the act or fantasy on the  भाग  of an adult of engaging in sexual activity with a child or children  .  ''
This common use application also extends to the sexual interest in and sexual contact with pubescent or post-pubescent minors .
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be  avoided  because  हालांकि  people who commit child sexual  गाली  commonly exhibit the disorder , some offenders do not meet the clinical diagnosis standards for pedophilia and these standards pertain to prepubescents  .
Additionally , not all pedophiles actually commit such abuse .
Pedophilia was first formally recognized and named in the late  19th  century .
A significant amount of research in the area has taken place since  the  1980s .
Although mostly documented in men , there are also women who exhibit the disorder , and researchers assume  उपलब्धियाँ  estimates underrepresent the true number of female pedophiles .
No cure for pedophilia has  महरूम  developed  ,  but there are therapies that can reduce the incidence of a person committing child sexual abuse .
In the United States , following Kansas v. Hendricks , sex offenders who are diagnosed with certain mental disorders , particularly pedophilia , can be subject to indefinite civil commitment  ,  under various state laws (  generically  called SVP laws ) and the federal Adam  वाल्श   चाइल्ड  Protection  और  Safety Act of  2006  .
At present ,  the   सटीक  causes of pedophilia have  नहीं  been conclusively established .
Research suggests that pedophilia may be correlated with  अनेक  different  neurological  abnormalities , and often co-exists with other personality  विकार  and psychological  pathologies  .
In the contexts of  forensic  psychology and law enforcement , a variety of typologies have been suggested to categorize pedophiles according to behavior  और   motivations   .
Julio César Chávez ( born Julio César Chávez González on July 12 , 1962 ) is a retired Mexican  पेशेवर  boxer .
Chávez is considered  by  many people for their sport statistics the greatest fighter ever to come  आउट   of  Mexico .
He is a six-time world  चैंपियन   in  three weight divisions , and for several years he was  माना  one of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world .
In a career that spanned over  25  years , Chávez won five world titles  in  three weight divisions : WBC Super  featherweight  in  1984  , WBA Lightweight in 1987 , WBC Lightweight in 1988 ,  wbc  Light Welterweight in 1989 , IBF Light Welterweight in 1990 , and WBC Light Welterweight in 1994 .
He holds records for most successful  लगातार  defenses of world titles ( 27 ) ,  सबसे  title fights ( 37 ) , most title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is after Joe Louis with ( 23 ) for most title defenses won by knockout ( 21 )  .
Chávez also has the longest undefeated streak in boxing  इतिहास  , 13 years .
His record was 89-0-1 going into his first loss to Frankie Randall and had an 87 fight win streak until his `` draw '' with Whitaker .
Julio César Chávez was known for his outstanding punching  शक्ति  , devastating  देह  attack , remarkably strong chin and the relentless stalking  of  his opponents .
He ranks # 24  on   ईएसपीएन  's 50 Greatest Boxers Of All Time  .
on  December 7 , 2010 , he was inducted in the prestigious International  मुक्केबाज़ी   हॉल  of Fame for the Class of 2011 .
He is the father of  prospect  Omar Chávez and former WBC Middleweight Champion Julio César Chávez , Jr .
`` Selektion `` on the Judenrampe , Auschwitz , May/June 1944  .
To be sent to  the  right meant slave labor ; to the left , the gas  कक्ष  .
This image shows the arrival of Hungarian  यहूदियों  from Carpatho-Ruthenia , many of  उन्हें  from  the  Berehov ghetto .
The photographer was Ernst Hofmann or Bernhard Walter of the SS .  चित्र  courtesy of Yad Vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos , `` whole '' and kaustós , `` burnt '' ) also known  as   the   shoah  ( Hebrew  :  , HaShoah , `` catastrophe '' ; Yiddish :  ,  Churben or Hurban , from the Hebrew for `` destruction '' ) , was the mass murder or genocide of approximately six million Jews during  संसार  War II ,  a  programme of  व्यवस्थित  state-sponsored murder by Nazi Germany  ,  led by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party ,  throughout  German-occupied territory .
Of the nine million Jews who had resided in Europe before the Holocaust , approximately two-thirds were killed  .
Over one million Jewish children  यहूद  killed in the Holocaust  ,  as  यहूद  approximately two million Jewish women  और  three million Jewish men .
A network of over 40,000 facilities in Germany and German-occupied territory were used to concentrate , hold , and kill Jews and other victims .
Some  विद्वानों  argue that the mass murder of  the  Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the definition ,  और  some use the common noun `` holocaust '' to describe other Nazi mass murders , including those of  सोवियत  prisoners of  युद्ध  , Polish and Soviet civilians , and homosexuals .
Recent  estimates  based on figures obtained  चूंकि  the fall of the Soviet Union indicates  कुछ  ten to  ग्यारह  million civilians  और  prisoners of war were intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime .
the  persecution and genocide were  carried  out in stages .
विभिन्न  laws to remove the Jews from civil society , most prominently the Nuremberg Laws , were enacted in  जर्मनी  years before the outbreak of World War II .
Concentration camps were established in which inmates  यहूद  subjected to slave labor until they died of exhaustion or disease .
Where Germany conquered  नई  territory in eastern Europe , specialized units called Einsatzgruppen murdered Jews and political opponents in mass shootings .
The occupiers required Jews and Romani to be confined in overcrowded  ghettos  before being transported  by  freight train to  extermination  camps where , if they survived  the  journey , most were systematically killed in gas  कक्षों  .
Every arm  of   जर्मनी  's bureaucracy  थी  involved in  the  logistics  कि  led to the genocides , turning the Third Reich into what one Holocaust scholar has called `` a genocidal state ''  .
4-H in the United States is a youth organization administered by the National Institute of Food  और  Agriculture of the  संयुक्त  States Department of Agriculture ( USDA )  ,  with the mission of `` engaging youth to reach  उनके  fullest potential while  advancing  the field of  युवावस्था  development . ''
The name represents four  निजी  development areas of focus for the organization : head , heart ,  हैंड्स  ,  और  health  .
The organization  रै  over 6.5 million members in the United States , from ages five to twenty-one , in approximately 90,000 clubs .
The goal of 4-H is to  develop   नागरिकता  ,  नेतृत्व  , responsibility and life  कौशल  of youth through  experiential  learning programs and a positive  युवावस्था  development approach .
Though typically  विचार  of as an agriculturally focused organization as a result of its history , 4-H today focuses on citizenship , healthy living  ,  science , engineering  ,   और   प्रौद्योगिकी  programs .
Today , 4-H  और   सम्बन्धित  programs exist in over eighty countries around the world ; the organization and administration  varies  from country  to  country .
Each of  ये  programs operates independently , but  cooperatively  through international exchanges , global education programs , and communications .
The 4-H motto is `` To make the best better '' , while its slogan is `` Learn by doing '' (  sometimes  written as `` Learn to do by doing '' )  .
The national flag of Chile , consists  of  two unequal horizontal bands of white and red  और  a blue square the  वही  height as the white band in the canton , which bears a  श्वेत  five-pointed star in the center .
It was adopted on 18 October  1817  .
The Chilean flag is also known in Spanish as La Estrella Solitaria ( The Lone Star ) .
The star represents a guide to progress and honor ; blue symbolizes the sky and the Pacific Ocean , white is for the snow-covered Andes , and red stands  लिये  the blood spilled to achieve independence .
According to the epic poem La Araucana  ,   the  colors were derived from those from the flag flown by  the  Mapuche during the Arauco War .
`` Flag Day '' is held each year on  the  ninth of July to commemorate the 77 soldiers who died in the 1882 Battle of La Concepción .
Generation  y   ,   भी  known as the Millennial Generation  ,   is  the demographic cohort following Generation X .
वहीँ  are no precise dates for when Generation Y starts and ends .
Commentators use beginning birth dates from the latter 1970s , or from the early 1980s to the early 2000s .
the  Torches of Nero , by Henryk Siemiradzki .
According to Tacitus , Nero targeted Christians as those responsible for the fire .
The Great Fire of Rome ( ) was  an  urban fire that occurred beginning 19 July AD 64 .
वर्जिनिया  ( ) , officially the Commonwealth of Virginia , is a  u.S.  state located in the South Atlantic region of the United States .
Virginia is nicknamed  the  `` Old Dominion '' and the `` Mother of Presidents '' after the eight U.S. presidents born there .
The geography and climate of the Commonwealth are shaped by  the  Blue Ridge  kyu  and  the  Chesapeake Bay , which provide habitat for much of its flora  और  fauna .
The capital of the Commonwealth is Richmond  ;  and  वर्जिनिया  Beach is the most populous city .
Fairfax County is the most populous political subdivision  .
The wealthiest is Loudoun County .
The Commonwealth 's population is over eight million .
The area 's history begins with several indigenous groups , including the Powhatan .
In 1607 the London Company established the Colony of Virginia as the first permanent New World English colony  .
Slave labor and the land acquired from displaced Native American tribes each played  a  significant role in the colony 's early politics and  वृक्षारोपण  economy  .
Virginia was one of the 13  colonies  in the American Revolution and joined the Confederacy  in  the American Civil War , during which Richmond  थी  made the Confederate capital and Virginia 's northwestern counties seceded to form the state of West Virginia .
Although the Commonwealth was under conservative  single-party  rule for nearly a century following Reconstruction , both major national parties are competitive in modern Virginia .
The Virginia General Assembly is the oldest legislature in the Western Hemisphere  .
The state government has been repeatedly ranked most effective by the Pew Center on the States .
It is unique in how it treats cities and counties equally , manages local  सड़कें  , and prohibits its governors from serving consecutive terms .
Virginia 's economy has many sectors :  कृषि   in  the Shenandoah  घाटी   ;  federal agencies in Northern Virginia , including the headquarters of the Department of  रक्षा  and  सीआईए  ;  और  military facilities in Hampton Roads ,  the  site of the region  's  main seaport .
Virginia 's public  स्कूलों  and many colleges and universities have  contributed  to growing media and technology sectors .
As a  परिणाम  , computer chips have become the state 's leading export .
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly known as Windows Live Movie Maker ,  codenamed  Sundance ) is a freeware video editing software by Microsoft .
It is a part of Windows Essentials software suite and offers  the  ability to create and edit videos as well as to publish  उन्हें  on SkyDrive , Facebook ,  youtube   ,   और  Flickr .
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut single by Tupac Shakur , and tenth track from his debut album , 2Pacalypse  अभी  .
The song ,  जिससे  features R & B singer Dave Hollister , is about a twelve year-old girl named Brenda who lives  in  a  ghetto  , has a baby ,  और  is incapable of supporting it .
The song explores the issue of teen pregnancy and its effect  on  the  यंग  mothers and their families .
Like  अनेक  of Shakur 's songs ,  ``  Brenda 's Got a baby  ''  draws  इससे  the plight of the impoverished .
Using Brenda to represent  यंग  mothers in general , Shakur criticises  the  low level of support from the baby 's father , the government , and society in general .
Shakur wrote the song when he read a newspaper article  परिचय  a twelve-year-old girl who got pregnant from her cousin and  ,  because she did not want her parents to know about the baby , threw it in a trash can .
The official logo of Pokémon for its international release ; ``  पोकीमॉन   ''  is short for the original Japanese title of `` Pocket Monsters ''  .
is a media franchise published and owned by Japanese video game company Nintendo and created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996 .
Originally released as a pair of interlinkable Game Boy role-playing video games developed by Game Freak , Pokémon has since become the second-most  कामयाब  and lucrative video game-based media franchise in the world ,  पीछे  only Nintendo 's own Mario franchise .
Pokémon properties have since been merchandised into anime ,  manga  , trading cards , toys , books  ,   और  other  मीडिया  .
The franchise  मनाये  in 2006 , and , cumulative sales  of  the video  खेल  ( including  घर  console versions , such as the  ``  Pikachu '' Nintendo 64 ) have reached more than 200  लाख  copies .
In November 2005 ,  4kids  Entertainment , which had managed the non-game related licensing of Pokémon , announced that it had agreed not to renew the Pokémon representation agreement .
Pokémon USA Inc. ( now The Pokémon Company International ) , a subsidiary of Japan 's Pokémon Co. , now oversees all Pokémon licensing outside of Asia .
The name Pokémon is the  romanized  contraction of  the  Japanese brand .
The  पद  Pokémon , in addition to referring  to  the Pokémon franchise itself , also collectively refers  to  the 649 fictional species that have made appearances in Pokémon media as of the release of the fifth generation titles Pokémon Black 2  और  White 2 ; with the upcoming releases of Pokémon X and Y , 6  नई  Pokémon have been featured in promotions for the games .
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both  the   एकवचन  and plural  ,  as is each individual  प्रजाति  name ; it  is  grammatically correct to say ``  एक  Pokémon '' and ``  अनेक  Pokémon '' , as well as `` one Pikachu `` and ``  अनेक  Pikachu '' .
कवर  of the first edition of  the  publication Dada by Tristan Tzara ; Zurich , 1917
Dada  (  ) or Dadaism was an art movement of  the  European avant-garde in the early 20th century .
Many claim Dada began in Zurich , Switzerland in 1916 , spreading  to  Berlin shortly thereafter  लकिन  the height of New York Dada was the year before in 1915 .
To quote  डोना  Budd  's  The Language of Art Knowledge , Dada was born out of negative reaction to  the  horrors of World War I .
This international movement was begun by a group of artist and poets associated  साथ  the Cabaret Voltaire  in  Zurich .
Dada rejected reason and logic , prizing nonsense , irrationality  और  intuition .
The origin of the name Dada is unclear  ;  some believe that  it  is  a   nonsensical  word .
अन्य  maintain that it originates from  the  Romanian artists Tristan Tzara and Marcel Janco 's frequent use of the words da ,  da  , meaning yes , yes in the Romanian language .
Another theory says that the name `` Dada '' came during a meeting of the group when a  पेपर  knife stuck into a French-German dictionary happened to point  to  'dada ' , a French word for 'hobbyhorse ' .
The movement primarily involved visual arts , literature , poetry  ,  art manifestoes , art theory , theatre , and graphic design , and concentrated its anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art  सांस्कृतिक   works  .
In addition to being anti-war , Dada was also anti- bourgeois and had political affinities with the radical left .
Dada activities included public gatherings , demonstrations , and publication of art/literary journals  ;  passionate coverage of art , politics ,  और  culture  यहूद  topics often discussed in a  किस्में  of media .
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball , Emmy Hennings , Hans Arp , Raoul Hausmann , Hannah Höch , Johannes Baader , Tristan Tzara , Francis  picabia  ,  रिचर्ड   huelsenbeck  , Georg Grosz  ,  John Heartfield , Marcel Duchamp , Beatrice Wood , Kurt Schwitters ,  और  Hans Richter , among others .
The movement influenced later styles like the avant-garde  और  downtown music  आंदोलनों  , and groups including surrealism , Nouveau  réalisme  , pop art and Fluxus .
Dada is the groundwork to  अमूर्त  art and sound poetry  ,  a starting point for performance art , a prelude to postmodernism , an  influence  on pop art , a celebration of antiart to  be  later embraced for anarcho-political uses in  the  1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism .
First trophic level .
The plants in  इस  image , and the algae and phytoplankton in the lake , are primary producers .
They take nutrients from the soil or  the  water , and manufacture their own food by photosynthesis , using energy from the sun .
The  trophic  level of an  सजीव  is the position it occupies in a food chain .
The word trophic derives from the Greek τροφή ( trophē ) referring  to   खाना  or  feeding  .
a  food chain represents a succession of organisms  कि   खा  another organism and are , in turn , eaten  themselves  .
The number of steps an organism is from the start of the  कड़ी  is a measure of its trophic level .
Food  जंजीरों  start  at  trophic level 1 with primary producers such as plants , move to herbivores at level 2 , predators at level 3 and  typically  finish with carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5  .
The path  साथ  the chain can form  either  a one-way flow , or a food `` web . ''
Ecological communities with higher  biodiversity  form more complex trophic paths .
Four of the most important domesticated  रेशा  moths .
Top to bottom : Bombyx mori , Hyalophora cecropia , Antheraea pernyi , Samia cynthia .
From Meyers Konversations-Lexikon ( 1885-1892 )
A silk-producing raspy cricket .
Silk  is  a natural protein fibre , some forms of which can be woven into  वस्त्र  .
The protein fibre of silk is composed mainly of fibroin and produced by certain insect larvae  to  form cocoons .
The best-known type of silk  is   प्राप्त   इससे  the cocoons of the larvae of the mulberry silkworm Bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ) .
The shimmering appearance of silk is due to the triangular prism -like structure of the silk fibre , which allows silk cloth to refract incoming light at different  कोण  , thus producing different colors .
Silks are produced by several other insects , but generally  तभी   the  silk of  शलभ  caterpillars has been used for textile manufacturing .
There has been some research  into   अन्य  silks , which differ  at  the molecular level .
Many silks are mainly produced by the larvae of insects  undergoing  complete metamorphosis , but some adult insects such as  webspinners  produce silk , and some insects  ऐसे  as raspy  झींगुर  produce silk throughout their lives .
Silk production also occurs in Hymenoptera ( bees , wasps , and ants ) , silverfish , mayflies , thrips , leafhoppers  ,  beetles , lacewings , fleas , flies and midges .
Other types of arthropod produce silk , most notably various arachnids  ऐसे  as spiders ( see spider silk ) .
Late Show with David Letterman is an American late-night talk show hosted by David Letterman on CBS .
the  show debuted on August 30  ,  1993  ,  and is  उत्पादित  by Letterman 's production company , Worldwide Pants Incorporated .
The show 's music director and band-leader of the house  बैंड  , the CBS Orchestra , is Paul Shaffer .
The head writer is Matt  रॉबर्ट्स  and the announcer is Alan Kalter .
Of the major U.S.  late-night  programs , Late Show ranks second in cumulative average viewers over time  और  third  in  number of episodes over time .
The  दिखाएँ  leads other late night shows in ad  आय  with  $  271 million in 2009 .
In most U.S. markets the show airs at 11:35 p.m. Eastern/Pacific time , but is recorded Monday through  बुधवार  at 4:30  p.m.   ,  and Thursdays at 3:30  p.m  and 6:00 p.m .
The second Thursday episode usually airs on Friday of that week .
In 2002 , Late Show with David Letterman was  क्रमित  No . 7 on TV Guide 's 50 Greatest  tv  Shows  of  All Time .
CBS has a contract with Worldwide Pants to continue the show  through  2014 ; by then , Letterman will surpass Johnny Carson as the  longest  tenured late-night talk show host .
The Real Housewives of Orange County  is  an  अमरीकी  reality documentary  टेलीविज़न  program on Bravo , set in Orange County , California .
It was the first The Real Housewives program  in  the series .
The series is a voyeuristic look into the wealthy lives of these housewives , as they shop , get  प्लास्टिक  surgery , gossip , fight and live lavishly .
The financial crisis , the beginning of which coincided almost exactly with  the  first season 's broadcast , has since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles with job losses , evictions , mortgage defaults , foreclosures , and marital stress—all recorded in progressive seasons of the show .
Cyberstalking  is  the  उपयोग  of the Internet or other electronic means to  stalk  or  harass  an individual , a group of individuals ,  or  an organization .
It may include the making of  गलत  accusations or statements of fact ( as in  मानहानि  ) , monitoring , making threats ,  पहचान  theft  ,   क्षति  to data or equipment , the solicitation of  नाबालिग  for sex , or gathering information that may be used to harass .
The definition of `` harassment '' must meet the  मानदंड  that a reasonable person ,  in  possession of the same information , would  लिहाज़  it as sufficient to cause  another  reasonable person distress  .
cyberstalking  is different  इससे  spatial or offline stalking in that it occurs through the use of electronic communications technology  ऐसे  as the internet .
However , it sometimes leads to it , or is accompanied by it .
Both are criminal offenses .
Cyberstalking  साझा  important characteristics  साथ  offline stalking .
Many stalkers – online or off – are motivated by a desire to control  उनके  victims .
A cyberstalker may be  an  online stranger or a  व्यक्ति  whom the target knows .
A  cyberstalker  may be anonymous and may solicit  भागीदारी  of other people online who do not even know the target .
Cyberstalking is a criminal offense that comes into play  अंतर्गत  state anti-stalking laws , slander laws , and harassment laws .
a   cyberstalking  conviction  can  result in a restraining order , probation , or even criminal  दंड  against the assailant , including  कारावास   .
A business letter is usually used when writing from  एक  company to another , or for correspondence between such organizations and their customers , clients and other external parties .
The overall style of letter will depend on  the   संबंध  between the parties concerned .
There are many reasons to write  a  business letter .
It  could  be to request direct information or action from another party , to order  आपूर्तियाँ  from a  प्रदायक  , to identify a mistake that was committed , to reply  सीधे  to a request , to apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill .
Even today , the business letter is still very useful because  it  produces a permanent record  ,  is confidential , formal and  delivers  persuasive , well-considered messages .
Tilapia ( ) is the common name  लिये  nearly a hundred species of cichlid fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe .
Tilapia are mainly freshwater  मछली  , inhabiting shallow streams ,  तालाबों  , rivers and lakes ,  और  less commonly found  जीना  in brackish water .
Historically , they have been of major importance in artisan fishing  in  Africa and the Levant , and are of increasing importance in aquaculture .
Tilapia can become  समस्यापूर्ण  invasive species in new warm-water habitats , whether  deliberately  or accidentally introduced , but generally not in temperate climates due to their inability to survive in cooler waters below about  .
Turner & Hooch is a 1989 comedy drama crime film starring  tom  Hanks and Beasley the Dog as the eponymous characters , Turner and  hooch  respectively .
The film also stars Mare Winningham ,  क्रेग  T. Nelson , and Reginald  veljohnson  .
It was directed by Roger Spottiswoode ;  the  film was originally slated to be directed by Henry Winkler  ,   लकिन  he was terminated due to  ``  creative differences '' .
It was co-written by Michael Blodgett from Beyond the Valley of the Dolls fame .
Although K-9  (  with James Belushi ) was  released  prior to this film ( exactly  तीन  months earlier ) , Turner & Hooch became more popular and seemingly overshadowed its greater success  ,  even though K-9 had a very similar plot .
a  pilot for a Turner & Hooch TV series was made and ran as a part of The Magical  संसार  of Disney .
This is a list of Israeli airports , sorted by location .
Entrance to Ovda Airport
Terminal 3 at Ben Gurion
Plane  लैंडिंग  at Be'er Sheva  (  Teyman )
Eilat Airport
Adolf  हिटलर  (  ;  20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945 ) was an Austrian -born German politician and the leader of the Nazi Party ( ( NSDAP ) ; National Socialist German Workers Party ) .
He was chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945 and dictator of Nazi Germany ( as Führer und Reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945 .
हिटलर  was at the centre of Nazi Germany  ,   संसार  War II in Europe , and the Holocaust .
Hitler was a decorated veteran of  संसार  War  i  .
He joined the German Workers  '  Party ( precursor of  the   nsdap  ) in 1919 , and became leader of  the  NSDAP in  1921   .
In 1923 , he  attempted  a coup d'état in Munich , known as the Beer Hall Putsch .
The failed coup resulted in Hitler 's imprisonment ,  दौरान  which time he wrote his memoir , Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ) .
After his release in 1924  ,  Hitler gained  लोकप्रिय  support by attacking the Treaty of  versailles  and promoting Pan-Germanism , antisemitism , and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda .
After  उसके  appointment as  चांसलर   in  1933 , he transformed the Weimar Republic into the Third Reich , a single-party dictatorship  आधारित  on the totalitarian and  निरंकुश  ideology of Nazism .
Hitler 's aim was to establish a New Order of absolute Nazi German hegemony  in  continental Europe .
To this  समाप्त  , his foreign and domestic  नीतियों  had the  उद्देश्य  of seizing Lebensraum  (  `` living space ''  )  for the Germanic  लोगों  .
He directed  the  rearmament of Germany and the invasion of  कैंडल  by the Wehrmacht in September 1939 , resulting in the outbreak of World  युद्ध  II in Europe .
अंतर्गत  Hitler 's rule , in 1941 German forces and their European allies occupied most of Europe and North Africa .
In 1943 , Germany had been forced onto the  रक्षात्मक  and suffered a series of escalating defeats .
In the final days of the war  ,  during the Battle of Berlin in 1945 , Hitler married his  long-time  partner , Eva Braun .
On 30 April 1945 , less than two days later ,  the  two committed suicide to  avoid  capture by the Red Army , and their corpses were burned .
Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy is considered the main cause of the outbreak of World War II in Europe .
His  antisemitic  policies and racially motivated ideology resulted in the  मौतों   of  at least 5.5 million Jews , and  लाखो  of other people deemed racially inferior .
thumb
A domain name is an identification string that defines  a  realm of administrative autonomy  ,  authority , or  कंट्रोल  on the Internet .
Domain names are formed by  the  rules and procedures of the Domain Name System ( DNS ) .
Technically ,  कोई   नाम  registered in the DNS is a  डोमेन  name .
Domain names  हैं  used in various networking contexts and application-specific naming and addressing purposes .
In  सामान्य  , a domain name represents an Internet Protocol ( IP ) resource , such as a personal computer used to  अभिगम  the Internet ,  a  server computer hosting a web site , or the web site  itself   or  any  अन्य  service communicated via  the  Internet .
डोमेन  names  हैं  organized in subordinate levels ( subdomains ) of the DNS root domain  ,  which  is  nameless .
the  first-level set of domain names are the top-level domains ( TLDs ) , including the  जेनेरिक  top-level domains ( gTLDs )  ,  such as the prominent domains com , info , net and org , and the country  कोड  top-level domains ( ccTLDs ) .
Below these top-level domains in the DNS  पदानुक्रम  are the second-level  और  third-level domain names that are typically open for reservation by end-users who wish to connect local area networks  to  the Internet , create other publicly  accessible  Internet  संसाधन   or  run web sites .
The registration of these  डोमेन  names is usually administered by domain name registrars who  बेचें  their services to the public .
A fully qualified domain name ( FQDN ) is a domain name that is completely specified in the hierarchy of the  डीएनएस  , having no omitted parts .
Domain names are  प्रायः  written in lowercase  ,  although labels  in  the Domain Name System are case-insensitive .
Nitrate is a polyatomic ion  साथ  the molecular formula NO3−  और  a molecular mass of 62.0049 g/mol .  nitrates  also describe the organic functional group RONO2 .
These nitrate esters are a specialized class of explosives .
a  wheat harvest  in  Idaho
This photo from a 1921 encyclopedia shows a tractor ploughing a crop field .
Agriculture is a major industry in the United  राज्य  and the country is a net exporter of  खाना  .
as  of  the  last census of agriculture in 2007 , there  यहूद  2.2 million  खेतो  , covering an  क्षेत्रफल  of , an average of per farm .
Although  agricultural  activity occurs in  सबसे  states ,  it  is particularly concentrated in the vast expanse of flat , arable land known as the Great  मैदान  , which encompasses the central region of the nation .
The Mpemba effect , named after Tanzanian student Erasto Mpemba , is the assertion that warmer water can freeze faster than colder water .
Although there is  anecdotal  support for the effect , there is no agreement on exactly what the effect is  और  under what circumstances it occurs .
There have been reports of similar phenomena since ancient times , although with insufficient detail for the claims to be replicated .
the  phenomenon seems contrary to  ऊष्मागतिकी  , but a  क्रमांक  of possible explanations for the effect have been proposed .
Further investigations will need to decide on a precise definition  of  `` freezing '' and control a vast number of starting parameters in order to confirm or explain the effect .
The  siamese  ( , ) is one of the  पहला  distinctly recognized breeds of  प्राच्य   बिल्ली  .
The breed originated in Thailand ( formerly known  as  Siam ) , where they are one of several native breeds and are called Wichian Mat ( วิเชียรมาศ , a name meaning `` moon  डायमंड  '' ) .
In the 20th century the Siamese cat became one of  the  most popular breeds in Europe and North America .
Quality Food Centers ( QFC ) is a supermarket  कड़ी  based in Bellevue , Washington , with 64  स्टोर्स  in the Puget  ध्वनि  region of Washington state and in the Portland , Oregon metropolitan area .
In economics , the money supply or money stock , is the total amount of monetary assets available in  an  economy at a specific time .
There are several  तरीके  to define `` money , '' but standard measures usually include currency in circulation and demand deposits ( depositors ' easily accessed assets on the books of financial institutions ) .
Money supply  आंकड़ा  are recorded and published ,  प्रायः  by the government  or  the central bank of the country .
Public and private sector analysts have long monitored changes in money supply because of its effects on the price level ,  महंगाई  , the exchange rate  और  the business cycle .
That relation between money and prices is historically associated with the quantity theory of money .
वहीँ  is strong empirical evidence of a direct relation between money-supply growth and long-term price inflation , at least  लिये  rapid increases in the  राशि  of money in the  अर्थव्यवस्था   .
That is  ,  a country such  as  Zimbabwe which saw rapid increases in its money supply also saw rapid  increases  in prices ( hyperinflation  )  .
This is one reason for the  रिलायंस   on  monetary policy as a means of controlling inflation  .
The nature of this causal chain is the subject of contention  .
Some heterodox economists  argue  that the money  सप्लाई  is endogenous  (  determined by the workings of the economy , not by the central bank ) and that the  स्त्रोत  of inflation must be found in the distributional  ढांचा  of the economy .
In addition , those economists seeing the central bank  's  control over the money supply as feeble say that there are two weak links between the growth of the money supply and the inflation rate .
First , in the aftermath  of  a recession , when  अनेक  resources are underutilized , an  बढ़ाएँ  in the money supply can cause a sustained increase in real production instead of inflation .
Second , if the velocity of money , i.e. , the ratio between nominal GDP and money supply , changes , an increase in the money supply could have either no effect , an  अतिरंजित  effect , or an unpredictable effect on the growth of nominal GDP .
Logo  लिये  IMAX .
Warren Theatre IMAX cinema , Wichita , Kansas , USA , 601 seats .
A comparison between 35 mm and 15/70  mm  negative areas .
IMAX ( an abbreviation for Image  अधिकतम  ) is a motion picture film format and a set of cinema projection standards created by the  कनाडाई   कम्पनी  IMAX Corporation .
IMAX has the capacity to record and display images of far greater  आकार  and resolution than  conventional  film systems .
Since 2002 , some feature films have been converted ( or upgraded ) into IMAX  स्वरूप   लिये  display in IMAX theatres and some have also been partially shot in IMAX .
IMAX is the most  widely  used  प्रणाली  for  special-venue  film presentations .
,  वहीँ  are 697 IMAX  थिएटर  in 52  देशों  .
Today 's Special is a Canadian children 's  टेलीविज़न  show produced by Clive VanderBurgh at  tvontario  from 1981 to 1987 .
It also ran on Nickelodeon and the  आस्था  and Values Channel/Odyssey ( now the Hallmark Channel )  as  well as many  pbs  stations throughout the United States .
it  was set in a department store  ,  based on the flagship location of the  अभी  defunct Simpson 's in Toronto .
Many sequences for it were shot  at  the Queen Street West and Yonge Street store after hours .
Constitutionalism , in its most  सामान्य  meaning , is `` a complex of  विचार  , attitudes , and patterns of behavior  elaborating  the  principle  that  the  authority of government derives from and is limited by  a  body  of  fundamental  विधि  '' .
A political organization is constitutional to the extent that it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of power control for the protection of the interests and liberties  of  the citizenry , including those that may be in the minority `` .
As described by political  वैज्ञानिक  and constitutional scholar David  fellman   :
An ice-cream headache  ,   भी  known as brain freeze , cold-stimulus headache , or its given scientific name sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( meaning `` nerve pain of the sphenopalatine ganglion `` ) , is a form of brief cranial pain or headache commonly associated with consumption ( particularly quick consumption ) of cold beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops .
It is caused by having  कुछ  cold touch the roof of the mouth ( palate ) , and is believed to result from a nerve response causing rapid constriction and swelling of blood  बरतन  or a `` referring `` of  पीड़ा  from the roof of the mouth to the head .
The rate of intake for cold foods has  महरूम  studied as a contributing  फ़ैक्टर  .
There are people who can  नहीं  experience ``  दिमाग  freeze '' or similar symptoms .
The term ice-cream headache has been in use since  at  least 31 January 1937 , contained in a journal entry by Rebecca Timbres published in the 1939 book We did  n't  ask Utopia :  a   quaker  family in Soviet Russia .
The first published use of the term brain freeze , as it pertains to  cold-induced  headaches , was on 27 May 1991 .
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : note `` s '' rather than `` z '' ) is a Scots poem written by Robert Burns in 1788 and set to the tune of a traditional folk song ( Roud # 6294 ) .
it  is well known in many countries , especially in the English-speaking world ; its traditional use being  to  celebrate the start of the New Year at  the  stroke of midnight .
By extension , it is also sung at funerals , graduations and as a farewell or ending to  अन्य  occasions .
The international Boy Scout youth movement , in  अनेक   देशों  , uses it as a  बंद  to jamborees and other functions  .
The song 's Scots title  may  be translated into English literally as `` old long since '' , or more idiomatically , `` long long ago '' , `` days gone by '' or `` old times '' .
Consequently `` For  auld   लैंग  syne '' , as it appears in the first line  of  the chorus , might be loosely translated  as  `` for ( the sake of ) old times '' .
the  phrase `` Auld Lang Syne  ''  is also used  in  similar poems by Robert Ayton ( 1570–1638 )  ,  Allan  ramsay  ( 1686–1757 ) , and James Watson ( 1711 ) as  खूब  as older folk songs  predating  Burns .
Matthew Fitt  उपयोग  the phrase `` In the days of auld lang syne '' as the equivalent of `` Once upon a time ...
`` in his retelling of fairy tales in the Scots language  .
Ben Schulz , player of Leeroy Jenkins at BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins , sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins and often elongated with numerous additional letters  ,  is an Internet  मीम   नामित  for a player character created by Ben Schulz in Blizzard Entertainment 's MMORPG  ,  World of Warcraft  .
The character became  लोकप्रिय  due to a video of the game that circulated around the Internet .
the  phenomenon has since spread beyond the boundaries of the gaming community into  अन्य  online and mainstream media .
Oscar Grant was fatally shot by BART police officer Johannes Mehserle in Oakland , California , United States , in  the  early morning  घंटों  of New Year 's Day 2009 .
Responding to  रिपोर्ट्स  of a fight on  a  crowded Bay Area Rapid Transit train returning  इससे  San Francisco , BART Police officers  detained  Oscar Grant and several other passengers  on  the platform at the Fruitvale BART Station .
Officer Johannes Mehserle and another officer were restraining Grant , who was prostrate and allegedly resisting arrest .
Officer Mehserle stood and  ,  according to witnesses , said : `` Get back , I 'm gon  na  tase him . ''
तब  Mehserle drew his gun and shot Grant  एकबार  in the back ; Mehserle appeared stunned , put his  हैंड्स  to his head and exclaimed , `` Oh ,  my  God ! ''
During his court  गवाही  , Mehserle said that Grant then exclaimed , `` You shot me ! ''
ग्रान्ट  turned out to be unarmed ; he was  सुनाया  dead the next morning at  highland  Hospital in Oakland .
The events were captured on multiple digital video and cell phone  कैमरे  .
The footage was  disseminated  to media outlets and to various websites , where it was watched millions of times .
The following days saw both peaceful and violent  विरोध  .
The shooting has been variously  labeled  an involuntary manslaughter and a summary execution .
On January  13  , Alameda  काउंटी  prosecutors charged Mehserle with murder for  the  shooting .
He resigned his position and pleaded  नहीं  guilty .
the  trial began on June 10 , 2010 .
Michael Rains , Mehserle 's  दण्ड  defense attorney , argued that Mehserle mistakenly shot Grant with his pistol , intending to  उपयोग  his Taser when he saw Grant reaching for his waistband .
Pretrial filings argue that his client  किया  not commit first-degree murder and asked a Los Angeles judge to instruct the jury  to  limit  इसके  deliberations to either second-degree murder or acquittal .
Oakland civil rights attorney John Burris filed a $  25  million wrongful death claim against BART on behalf of Grant  's  family .
On July 8 ,  2010  , the jury returned its verdict  :  Mehserle was found  अपराधी  of involuntary manslaughter and not guilty  of  second-degree  हत्या  and  voluntary  manslaughter .
आरंभिक  protests against the ruling were peacefully  व्यवस्थित  ; looting , arson  ,  destruction of property , and small riots broke out after dark .
Nearly 80 people were eventually arrested .
On Friday , July  9  ,  2010   ,  the U.S. Justice  विभाग   खोली  a civil rights case against Mehserle ; the federal government can prosecute him independently for the same act under  the   पृथक  sovereigns exception  to  double jeopardy .
The Department of Justice will be working with the U.S. Attorney 's office in San Francisco and the FBI .
On November  5  ,  2010  , Mehserle was sentenced to two years , minus  समय  served .
He served his time in the  लॉस  Angeles County Jail , occupying a private  कोशिका  away  इससे   अन्य  prisoners .
He was released  on  June 13 , 2011 and is now on parole  .
Major representatives of the Harlem Renaissance .
The Harlem Renaissance was a cultural movement that spanned  the  1920s .
At  the  time , it was known as the `` New Negro Movement '' , named after the  1925  anthology by Alain Locke .
Though it was  केन्द्रित  in the Harlem neighborhood of New York  नगर  , many French-speaking black writers from African and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also influenced by the  हार्लेम   पुनर्जागरण  .
the  Harlem Renaissance is unofficially  पहचाना  to have spanned from about 1919 until the early or mid-1930s .
अनेक  of its ideas lived on  much  longer .
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro literature '' ,  as  James Weldon Johnson  पसन्दीदा  to call the Harlem  पुनर्जागरण  , was  लगाई  between 1924 ( the year that Opportunity  :  A Journal  of   नीग्रो  Life hosted a party for black writers  जहाँ  many white  प्रकाशक  were in attendance ) and 1929 ( the year of the stock market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression ) .
African States between 500 BCE and 1500 CE
Obelisk at temple of Luxor , Egypt .
c. 1200 BCE  .
African knight of Baguirmi in full padded armour suit .
The history of Africa begins with the  प्रागितिहास  of Africa and the emergence  of  Homo sapiens in East Africa , continuing into the present  as  a patchwork of diverse and politically developing  स्वदेश  states .
Some early  प्रमाण  of agriculture  in  Africa dates from 16,000 BCE , and metallurgy from about 4000 BCE .
The recorded history of early civilization arose in Egypt , and later in Nubia , the Maghreb and the Horn of Africa .
During the Middle Ages , Islam spread through the regions  .
Crossing the Maghreb and the Sahel , a major center  of  Muslim culture was  टिम्बकटू  .
Some notable pre-colonial  राज्य  and societies in Africa include the Nok culture , Mali  साम्राज्य  , Ashanti Empire , Kingdom of Mapungubwe , Kingdom of Sine , Kingdom of  saloum  , Kingdom of Baol , Kingdom of Zimbabwe  ,  Kingdom of Kongo , Ancient Carthage  ,  Numidia , Mauretania ,  the  Aksumite  साम्राज्य  , the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate .
From the  लेट  15th century , Europeans  और  Arabs took slaves from West ,  सेंट्रल  and  southeast  Africa overseas in the African slave  व्यापार  .
European colonization of Africa developed rapidly in the  हाथापाई  for Africa of the late 19th  और  early  20th   सदियां  .
Following  struggles  for independence in many parts of the continent ,  as  well as a weakened  यूरोपीय  after the Second World War ; decolonization took place .
Africa 's history has been challenging for  शोधकर्ताओं  in the field of African studies because of the scarcity  of  written sources in large parts  of  sub-Saharan Africa .
Scholarly techniques such as the recording of oral history , historical linguistics , archaeology and genetics have been crucial .
Curry Foley  थी  the first player in Major League Baseball history to hit for the cycle .
In baseball  ,   hitting  for the cycle is the accomplishment of  एक  batter hitting a single , a double , a triple , and a home run in the same game  .
Collecting the hits in that order is known as a `` natural  साईकिल  '' .
चक्र  are uncommon in Major League Baseball  (  MLB ) , and have occurred 294 times  चूंकि  the first by Curry Foley in 1882 .
The cycle is roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in MLB history ) ; it has been called `` one of the rarest '' and `` most difficult feats '' in baseball .
Based  on  2009 offensive levels , the probability  of  an average MLB player  hitting  for a cycle against an average team in a game is  लगभग  0.00590 % ; this corresponds to  परिचय  2.5 cycles in a 162-game season with 30 teams .
In other baseball leagues , the cycle is achieved less frequently .
Through September 4 , 2008 , 62 players in Nippon Professional Baseball ( NPB  )  , the top-level baseball organization in Japan , have hit for the cycle , the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara .
Two players have hit for the cycle on  the  same day once in NPB history ; this has occurred twice  in   एमएलबी  history .
One NPB  खिलाड़ी  has also hit for the cycle in an NPB All-Star game .
No player has ever hit for the  साईकिल   in   the   एमएलबी  All-Star Game or the postseason .
The main slave routes in medieval Africa .
This article discusses systems ,  इतिहास   ,  and effects  of  slavery within Africa  .
See Arab slave trade , Atlantic slave trade ,  maafa  , and Slavery in contemporary Africa for other discussions .
`` Slave transport in Africa  ''  .
Europeans usually did not  डालें   the  interior regions .
Slavery  in  Africa  रै  existed throughout the continent for many centuries  ,  and  continues  in the current day  .
प्रणालियों  of servitude and slavery were common in many parts of the continent , as they were in much of the ancient world .
In most African societies  जहाँ  slavery was prevalent ,  the  enslaved people were  largely  treated as  indentured  servants and not treated as chattel slaves .
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began , many of the local slave systems changed  और  began supplying captives  लिये   स्लेव  markets outside of Africa .
Slavery in historical Africa  थी  practiced in many  अलग  forms and some  of  these do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery  elsewhere  in  the  world .
कर्ज़  slavery , enslavement of war captives  ,   सैन्य  slavery  ,  and criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa  .
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior  of  Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions , slavery was a small part of the economic life of many societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab  और  Atlantic ) .
स्लेव  practices were again transformed  साथ  European colonization of Africa  और  the formal abolition of slavery  in  the early 1900s .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited  सूचना  about computer performance and running applications  ,  processes and CPU usage , commit  चार्ज  and memory information  ,  network activity and statistics , logged-in users , and system services ( and as  प्रायः  is the case  साथ  software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows , 3rd  पार्टी  software is available which fills the requirements  अधिक  thoroughly , e.g , `` Process  एक्सप्लोरर  '' , `` Extended Task Manager '' , `` Anvir Task Manager '' , `` Process Hacker '' , and  ``   प्रणाली  Explorer '' ) .
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities , processor affinity , forcibly terminate  प्रक्रियाओं  , and shut down , restart , hibernate or log  बंद  from Windows .
Windows Task Manager was  introduced  with Windows NT  4.0  .
Previous versions of Windows NT included the Task List application , which had far fewer features .
The task list was capable of listing currently running processes and killing them , or creating a new process .
in  Windows XP only , a Shutdown menu is also present that allows access  to  Standby  ,  Hibernate  ,  Turn off , Restart , Log Off and Switch User .
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x , Windows  95  , Windows  98  ) had a program known  as  tasks to display the programs currently running  .
This file was executed by running the taskman.exe file from  the  C : \Windows directory  .
The Troop is an American-Canadian live-action , single camera comedy  -adventure  television series about a trio of  teenagers   जो  fight and capture monsters and other supernatural phenomena  कि  invade the fictional  कस्बा  of Lakewood .
Created and executive produced by Max  burnett  , Greg Coolidge and Chris Morgan , the series premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18 , 2009 .
The second season premiered on June 25 , 2011 and Nickelodeon  रद्द   the  series midway  through  it 's second season .
The remaining episodes of season 2 were aired on Nicktoons except the last 3..
Sparsely populated  in   संबंध  to its area , the Democratic Republic  of  the Congo ( DRC ) is  घर  to a vast potential of natural resources and mineral wealth , its untapped deposits of raw minerals  हैं  estimated to be worth in  excess  of US $ 24 trillion , yet the economy  of  the DRC has declined  drastically  since the mid-1980s .
at  the time of its independence in 1960 , DRC was the second most  industrialized  country in Africa after South  अफ़्रीकी  ; it boasted a thriving mining sector and its agriculture sector was relatively  उत्पादक  .
If the viewer stares at this image for 20–60 seconds and stares at a white object , a negative afterimage will appear (  in   इस  case ,  it  will be cyan on magenta ) .
This can also be achieved by the  दर्शक  closing his/her eyes and tilting their head up  .
An afterimage or ghost image or image burn-in is an optical illusion that refers to an image continuing to appear in one 's vision after the exposure to the original image has  ceased  .
One of the most common  afterimages   is  the bright glow that seems to float before one 's eyes after  looking  into a  लाइट  source for a few seconds .
Closing the eye can help achieve a better sense of the color in its own aspect .
afterimages  come in two forms , negative ( inverted ) and positive ( retaining original  रंग  ) .
the  process behind positive afterimages is unknown , though thought  to  be related  to   neural  adaptation .
On  the  other hand , negative afterimages are a retinal phenomenon and are  खूब  understood .
Lost is an American serial  नाटक   टेलीविज़न  series that premiered on September 22 , 2004 on the American Broadcasting Company ( ABC ) .
The series was created by J. J. Abrams and Damon Lindelof , based upon  an  original pilot script titled Nowhere written by Jeffrey Lieber  .
Six  सीज़न  of the show  aired  ,  in  addition to numerous clip shows to recap previous episodes .
एबीसी  announced that Lost would end after six  सीज़न  , having  उत्पादित  a total of  121  episodes .
The series follows the past , present , and future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a plane  क्रैश  on a passenger jet , Oceanic  उड़ान  815 , flying from  सिडनी  to Los Angeles after it  क्रैश  on a tropical island  in  the South Pacific  .
The  श्रेणी  also includes stories of the lives of people already living on the island — they  शामिल  the `` Others `` , who initially antagonize the survivors , as well as a group of people who arrive on the freighter Kahana .
Each  एपीसोड   typically   सुविधाएँ  action on the island as well as a secondary storyline from another point in a character 's life .
ऋतु  6 features a detailing of the  जीवनदान  of the survivors in a different reality , as if the flight had never crashed .
In  the  following list , the term `` featured character ( s ) '' refers to the character or characters who are featured in the secondary storyline of each episode .
``  no   .
in series '' refers to the episode 's number in the  overall  series , whereas ``  no   .
in season '' refers to the  एपीसोड  's number in each particular season .
`` U.S. viewers ( million ) '' refers to the number of Americans in millions  जो  watched the episode live .
A total of 121 episodes of Lost were produced , the last of which aired  on  May 23 , 2010 .
All seasons  हैं  available on DVD in Regions  1–4  and on  blu-ray  in Regions A and B .
Flat feet  (  also called pes planus or fallen arches ) is a formal reference to a medical condition in which the arch  of   the  foot collapses  ,  with the  संपूर्ण  sole of the foot coming into complete or near-complete contact with the ground .
In some individuals ( an estimated 20–30 % of the general population ) the arch simply never develops in  एक   पैर  ( unilaterally ) or both  फीट  ( bilaterally ) .
Three studies ( see citations below in military section ) of military recruits have shown no  प्रमाण  of later increased injury , or foot problems , due to flat feet , in a  जनसांख्यिकी  of people who reach military service age without prior  पैर  problems .
However , these studies can not be used to judge possible future damage from this condition when diagnosed at younger ages .
They also can not be applied to persons whose flat feet are associated with foot symptoms , or certain symptoms  in  other parts of the body ( such as the leg or back  )  possibly referable  to  the foot .
Generation X , commonly  abbreviated  to Gen X , is the generation born after  the  Western post-World  युद्ध  II baby boom .
Demographers , historians and commentators use beginning birth dates  इससे   the  early 1960s to the early 1980s .
The  पद  was popularized by Douglas Coupland 's 1991 novel Generation X  :  Tales for an Accelerated  संस्कृति  .
Before that , it had been used for various subcultures  or  countercultures after the 1950s .
Pressure ulcers , also known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores , are  स्थानीयकृत  injuries to the skin  and/or  underlying tissue usually over a bony prominence , as a result of  दबाव  , or pressure in  संयोजन  with shear and/or friction .
Most commonly this will be  the  sacrum , coccyx , heels or the hips , but  अन्य  sites such as the elbows , knees , ankles or the back of the cranium can  be   प्रभावित  .
The cause of pressure  छाले  is pressure applied  to  soft  ऊतक  so that blood flow to  the  soft tissue is completely or partially  obstructed  .
shear  is also a  कारण  ; shear pulls on blood vessels  कि  feed  the   स्किन  .
Pressure ulcers most commonly develop in persons who are not  चलती   परिचय  or are confined to wheelchairs .
it  is widely believed that other factors can influence the tolerance of  स्किन  for pressure and  shear  thereby increasing the risk of  दबाव  ulcer development .
These factors are  protein-calorie   कुपोषण  , microclimate ( skin wetness caused by sweating or incontinence )  ,  diseases that reduce  रक्त  flow to the skin  ,  such  as  arteriosclerosis or diseases that reduce the feeling in the skin , such  as  paralysis or neuropathy  .
The healing of pressure  छाले  may be slowed by the age  of  the person , medical conditions ( such as arteriosclerosis ,  मधुमेह  or infection ) , smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs .
Although often prevented and treatable if  मिला  early  ,   दबाव  ulcers can be very difficult to prevent in critically ill patients , frail elders , wheelchair users ( especially where spinal injury  is  involved ) and terminally ill patients .
प्राथमिक  prevention  is  to redistribute pressure  by  turning the patient  regularly  .
The benefit  of  turning to avoid further sores is well documented since at least the 19th century .
In addition to turning and re-positioning  the  patient in bed or  व्हीलचेयर  , eating a balanced diet with adequate  प्रोटीन   और  keeping the skin free from  एक्सपोज़र  to  मूत्र  and stool is  बहुत  important .
The prevalence of pressure ulcers in hospital settings is high , but improvements are being made .
According to the  2010  IPUP (  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   दबाव  Ulcer Prevalence Survey ) conducted  in  Canada , there  थी  a significant decrease in the overall facility-acquired prevalence of pressure ulcers from 2009-2010 .
Ulcers were most commonly  पहचाना  at the sacral/coccyx ulcer location ; however , heel ulcers were the most common facility-acquired location in the survey .
Overboard is a 1987 American romantic comedy film starring Goldie Hawn  और  Kurt Russell .
It was directed by Garry Marshall , produced by Roddy McDowell , and loosely inspired  by  the 1974 Italian film Swept Away .
In turn , Overboard  थी  adapted into the 2006 South Korean  टेलीविज़न  series , Couple or Trouble .
ग्रीन  Bay is a city in and the county seat of Brown County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin  ,  located at the head  of  Green Bay , a sub-basin  of   झील  Michigan , at the mouth of  the  Fox River .
It has  an  elevation of above sea level and is located north of Milwaukee .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 104,057  at  the 2010 census .
It is the third-largest city in  the  state of  विस्कॉन्सिन  , after Milwaukee  और   मैडिसन  .
It  is  also the third-largest city on the west  shore  of Lake Michigan , after Chicago and Milwaukee .
Green Bay is home to the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League , making it by far the smallest metropolitan area in the USA to host a major professional sports franchise .
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay  महानगर  Statistical Area , which covers Brown , Kewaunee , and Oconto Counties and had a combined population  of  282,599 at the 2000 census .
Green Bay is an  औद्योगिक  city with several  meatpacking   और   पेपर  plants  ,  and a port on Green Bay , an arm of Lake Michigan that locals call the Bay of Green Bay , to avoid conflating it  साथ  the eponymous city .
It is home to the National Railroad Museum ; the Neville Public Museum ,  साथ  exhibitions of art , history , and science ; and  the  University of Wisconsin–Green Bay .
Luteinizing  हार्मोन  ( LH ,  भी  known as  lutropin  and sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone produced by gonadotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland .
In females , an  अधि  rise of LH ( `` LH  surge  '' ) triggers ovulation and development of the corpus luteum .
In males  ,  where LH had also been called interstitial cell-stimulating hormone  (  ICSH ) , it stimulates Leydig cell production  of  testosterone .
It acts  synergistically  with FSH .
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  (  April 16 ,  1971  – March 31 , 1995 ) , known simply as Selena , was an American  singer-songwriter  .
She was named the `` top Latin artist of the '90s ''  और  `` Best  selling  Latin artist of the decade '' by Billboard for her fourteen top-ten singles in the Top Latin Songs chart , including  सात   number-one  hits .
Selena had the most successful singles of 1994 and 1995 , `` Amor Prohibido `` and `` No Me Queda Más `` .
She was called `` The Queen  of  Tejano  म्यूज़िक   ``  and the  मैक्सिकन  equivalent of Madonna .
Selena released her first album , Selena y Los Dinos ,  at   the  age  of  twelve .
She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano  म्यूज़िक  Awards and landed a recording contract  साथ  EMI a few years later .
Her fame grew throughout  the  early 1990s  ,  especially in Spanish-speaking  देशों  , and  वो  had begun recording in English as well .
Selena was murdered  at  the age of 23  on  March 31 , 1995 by Yolanda Saldívar , the former president of her fan club .
On April 12 , 1995  ,  two weeks  बाद  her death , George W. Bush , governor of Texas at the time , declared her birthday ``  सेलिना  Day '' in Texas .
Warner Bros.  उत्पादित  Selena , a film based  on  her  जीवन  starring Jennifer Lopez , in 1997  .
Selena 's life was also the basis of the musical Selena Forever starring Veronica Vazquez as  सेलिना  .
In June 2006  सेलिना  was commemorated with a  life-sized  bronze  प्रतिमा  ( Mirador de la Flor in Corpus Christi , Texas  )  and a Selena museum opened there .
She has sold over 60 million albums worldwide , making her one of the best-selling  कलाकारों  of all time .
She is also the only  मादा  artist to have five albums  in  U.S . Billboard 200 at  the   वही  time  .
German Stahlhelm from World War II
Insignia of the Bolivian Army Colorados regiment , showing a Stahlhelm and two crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm  (  plural , Stahlhelme ) is German for `` steel helmet '' .
The  इम्पीरियल  German Army began to replace the traditional boiled-leather Pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) with the Stahlhelm during World War I in 1916 .
The  पद  Stahlhelm refers  दोनो  to a generic steel helmet , and more specifically to the distinctive ( and iconic ) German design .
The Stahlhelm , with its distinctive  ``  coal scuttle  ``  shape , was an instantly recognizable icon  लिये  military  imagery  and became  a  common element of military propaganda on both sides  ,  just like the Pickelhaube before it  .
Its name was also used by the Stahlhelm  ,  a paramilitary nationalist organization established at the end of 1918 .
Glow-in-the-dark may refer to:
Bioluminescence , the production and emission of light by  a  living organism
Chemiluminescence , is  the  emission of light (  संदीप्ति  ) without emission of heat
Phosphorescence , a specific type  of  photoluminescence related to fluorescence
Radioluminescence , production of luminescence in a material by the bombardment of ionizing radiation
Glow in the Dark Tour , a 2008 concert tour  by   kanye  West
Frankfurt Airport serves  as  a  हब  city for Lufthansa and receives flights from Star Alliance carriers .
Airline hubs are airports ranked  as  large , medium , small , and  non-hubs  as one of the FAA airport categories which  हैं  re-evaluated every year based on number of commercial passengers .
the   अधिक  common but informal use for the phrase airline hub is an airport that an airline uses as a transfer point to get passengers to  उनके  intended destination .
It  is  part  of  a hub and spoke model , where travelers moving between airports not served by direct  फ़्लाइट  change planes en route to their destinations .
This is as opposed to the Point to Point model .
Many hubs of the airlines are also situated at airports  in  the cities of  the  respective head  कार्यालयों  .
Some airlines may use  तभी  a single hub , while other airlines use multiple hubs .
Hubs  हैं  used for both passenger flights as well as cargo flights .
Many airlines also use  फ़ोकस  cities , which function  much  the  वही  as hubs .
एयरलाइंस  may also use secondary hubs  ,  a non-technical  पद  for large focus cities .
A hub in the middle  of  a  रूट  is more effective than at either end  as  connecting traffic more easily fills the  प्लेन  - passengers prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route .
Hollow Lacedaemon  .
Site  of  the Menelaion , the shrine to Helen and Menelaus constructed anciently in the Bronze Age city that  stood  on the hill of Therapne on the left  बैंको  of the Eurotas River overlooking the future site of Dorian Sparta .
Across the valley the successive ridges  of  Mount Taygetus  हैं  in evidence .
Sparta  (  Doric Greek : ;  अटारी  Greek : ) , or Lacedaemon , was a prominent city-state in ancient  यूनानियों  , situated on the banks of the Eurotas River in Laconia , in south-eastern Peloponnese .
It emerged as a political entity around the 10th century BC , when the invading Dorians subjugated the local , non-Dorian population .
Around 650 BC  ,  it rose to become the dominant  सैन्य  land-power in ancient  यूनानियों  .
Given  इसके  military pre-eminence , Sparta was recognized  as  the overall leader of the combined Greek forces  दौरान  the Greco-Persian Wars .
between  431  और  404  bc  , Sparta was the principal enemy of Athens  दौरान  the  peloponnesian  War  ,  from  जिससे  it emerged victorious , though  at  great cost .
Sparta 's defeat by Thebes in the Battle of Leuctra  in  371  bc  ended Sparta 's prominent role in Greece .
However , it maintained its political independence  जबतक  the Roman conquest of Greece in 146 BC .
It then underwent a long period of decline , especially in the Middle Ages , when many Spartans moved to live in Mystras .
Modern Sparta is  the  capital of the Greek regional unit of Laconia and  a  center for the processing of goods such as citrus  और  olives .
Sparta was unique in ancient Greece for its social system and  संविधान  ,  जिससे  completely focused on military training and  excellence  .
Its inhabitants were classified  as  Spartiates (  spartan  citizens , who enjoyed full rights ) , Mothakes ( non-Spartan free men raised  as  Spartans  )  , Perioikoi  (  freedmen ) , and  helots  ( state-owned serfs , enslaved non-Spartan local population ) .
Spartiates underwent  the  rigorous agoge training and education regimen , and Spartan phalanges  यहूद  widely considered to be among the best in battle .
Spartan women enjoyed considerably more  अधिकारों  and equality to men than elsewhere in the classical  संसार  .
Sparta was the subject of fascination in its  अपना  day , as well as in the West following the revival of  शास्त्रीय  learning .
This love or admiration of Sparta is known  as  Laconism or Laconophilia .
Fantasy football  is  an interactive competition in which users compete against each other as general managers of virtual teams .
the  players that an  व्यक्तिगत  is able to manage  हैं  professional American  फ़ुटबॉल  players in the  नेशनल  Football League .
The different actions people are  समर्थ  to make are  drafting  , trading , adding or dropping players , and changing rosters .
due  to the growth of the Internet , Fantasy football has vastly increased in popularity  ,  particularly because Fantasy football providers such as ESPN , Yahoo , CBS , and the NFL itself are able to keep track of  आंकडे   entirely  online , eliminating the need to check box scores and newspapers regularly to keep track of players .
Most leagues have a single week championship in Week 16 of the NFL  ऋतु  .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based on UN 2010 projections (  रेड  , orange , green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black  )  .
Actual recorded population  आंकड़े   हैं  in blue .
According to  the  highest estimate  ,  the world population may rise to 16 billion by  2100  ; according to the lowest estimate , it may decline  to  6 billion .
The  संसार   जनसांख्यिकी  is  the  total number of  जीना  humans on Earth .
As of today ,  it  is estimated to  क्रमांक  billion by the United  राज्य  Census Bureau ( USCB  )  .
the  USCB estimates that the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12 , 2012 .
According to a  पृथक  estimate by the United Nations  जनसांख्यिकी  Fund , it reached this milestone on October 31 , 2011 .
The world population has  अनुभवी  continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine and the  ब्लैक  Death in 1350 , when it stood  at  around 370 million .
The  उच्चतम   दरों  of growth – global population  increases  above 1.8 %  प्रति  year – were seen briefly during the  1950s  , and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963  ,  and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births  यहूद  highest in the late 1980s at  परिचय  138  लाख  ,  और  are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million  ,  while deaths number 56 million per  साल  ,  और  are expected to increase  to  80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ) , with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term estimates  भविष्यवाणी  further growth , stagnation , or even  overall  decline in the global population by 2150 .
Some  विश्लेषकों  have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth , citing the growing pressures on  the  environment , global food supplies ,  और   उर्जा  resources  .
Skeletal muscles homo sapiens
This  is  a table  of  muscles of the human anatomy .
There  हैं  approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the  ठेठ  human , and almost every muscle constitutes one  भाग  of  a  pair of identical bilateral muscles , found  on  both sides , resulting in  लगभग  320 pairs of  मांसपेशियां  , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles differently , e.g . regarding what is defined  as  different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
Examples range from 640 to  850  .
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into  a  number of groups which include muscles relating to the head and neck , muscles of the torso  or  trunk  ,  muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
the  action refers to the  कार्रवाई  of each muscle from the standard anatomical position .
In other positions , other actions may be performed .
A gold bar is a quantity of refined metallic gold of any shape that is made by a bar producer meeting standard conditions of manufacture , labeling , and record keeping .
Larger gold bars that are produced by pouring the  molten  metal into molds are  पुकारा  ingots .
छोटी  bars may be manufactured by  minting   or  stamping from appropriately rolled gold  चादरें  .
The standard gold bar held as gold reserves by central banks and traded among  bullion  dealers is  the  400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces ) Good Delivery gold bar .
the  kilobar , which is  to  say 1000 grams  in  mass , is the bar that is more manageable and is used extensively for trading and investment .
The premium on these bars when traded is very low over the spot value  of  the gold making it ideal for small transfers between  बैंको  and traders .
Most kilobars are  चपटा  , although some investors ,  विशेषकर  in Europe , prefer the brick shape .
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' Manning  iii  ( born May  19  , 1949 ) is a former American football  क्वार्टरबैक  in the National Football League  ,  playing for the New  ऑरलियन्स  Saints from  1971   to  1982  ,  then for the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings .
He is the father of current Denver Broncos  क्वार्टरबैक  Peyton Manning , current New York Giants  starting  quarterback Eli Manning , and  पूर्व   ओले  Miss  receiver  Cooper Manning .
Advocacy is a political  प्रक्रम  by an individual or group which  aims  to  influence  public-policy and resource allocation decisions  भीतर  political , economic , and social systems and institutions .
Advocacy can  शामिल  many activities that a person  or  organization undertakes  सहित  media campaigns , public speaking , commissioning  और  publishing research or polls or the filing of an amicus brief .
Lobbying (  प्रायः   by  lobby groups ) is a form of advocacy  जहाँ  a direct approach is made to legislators on an issue which  plays  a significant role in modern politics .
शोध  is beginning to explore how advocacy groups in the U.S. and Canada are using social media  to  facilitate civic engagement and collective action .
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish  :  Bandera de México ) is  a  vertical  तिरंगा  of green , white , and  रेड  with  the  national  कोट  of arms charged in  the  center of the white stripe .
While  the  meaning of  the  colors has changed over time , these  तीन  colors were  अपनाया  by Mexico following independence from Spain during  the  country 's War of Independence , and subsequent First Mexican Empire .
the  current flag was adopted in 1968 , but the overall design has been used since 1821 , when the First National Flag was created .
The current law of national symbols  ,   विधि  on the National Arms , Flag , and Anthem ,  कि  governs the use of the  नेशनल  flag has been in place since 1984 .
Red , white , and green are the colors of the national liberation army in Mexico .
The central emblem is the Aztec pictogram for Tenochtitlan ( now Mexico City ) , the center of their empire .
It recalls the legend that inspired the Aztecs to settle on what was originally a lake-island .
The form of the coat of arms was most recently revised in 1968 .
A ribbon in the national colors is at the bottom  of  the  कोट  of arms  .
Throughout history , the flag has changed four  टाइम्स  , as the design of the coat of arms and the length-width ratios of the flag  have   महरूम  modified .
However , the coat of arms has had the same features throughout : an eagle ,  पकड़कर  a serpent in its talon , is perched on  शीर्ष  of a prickly pear cactus ; the cactus is situated on a rock that rises above  a  lake .
The coat of arms is  निकला  from an Aztec legend that their gods told them  to  build  a   नगर   जहाँ  they spot an eagle on a nopal  खाने  a serpent ,  जिससे  is now Mexico City .
The current national flag ,  the  Fourth National Flag , is also used as the Mexican naval ensign by  जहाजों  registered in Mexico .
A destination marketing organization or convention and visitor bureau promotes a town , city  ,  region , or country in order to increase the number of visitors .
it  promotes the  विकास  and marketing of a destination ,  focusing  on convention sales , tourism marketing , and services .
Such organizations promote economic development of a destination  by  increasing visits from tourists and  कारोबार  travelers , which generates overnight lodging for a destination , visits to restaurants , and shopping revenues .
Convention and visitor bureaus are the most important tourism  विपणन  organizations in  उनके  respective tourist  गंतव्यों  , as  वे  are directly responsible for  विपणन  the  गंतव्य  brand through travel and  पर्यटन  ``  उत्पाद  awareness '' to  विज़िटर  .
DMOs produce billions of dollars in direct and indirect  आय  and  कर  for their destinations ' economies with their marketing and sales expertise .
Destination marketing organizations are often called travel , convention , visitors ,  or  tourism  bureaux   ,  welcome centers , information centers and more .
Regardless of the name , these organizations offer many services to the traveling public  .
The elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis )  is  one of the largest species of deer in the world , and one of the largest land mammals in North America and eastern Asia .
It  थी  long believed to be a subspecies of the European red deer ( Cervus elaphus ) ,  लकिन  evidence from a 2004  पढ़ाई  of the mitochondrial DNA indicates that  the  two are distinct species .
This animal should not be confused with the  larger  moose ( Alces alces ) , to which the name `` elk  ''  applies in Eurasia .
Apart  इससे  the moose , the only other member of the deer family to rival the elk in  आकार  is  the  south Asian sambar ( Rusa unicolor  )  .
नीलगाय  range  in  forest  और  forest-edge habitat  ,  feeding on grasses , plants  ,  leaves  ,  and bark .
Although native to North America  और  eastern Asia , they have adapted well to countries where they have been introduced , including Argentina  ,  Australia  ,  and New Zealand .
Their great adaptability  may  threaten endemic species  और  ecosystems into which they have been introduced .
Male  नीलगाय  have large antlers which are shed each year .
Males also engage in ritualized mating behaviors during the rut , including posturing , antler wrestling ( sparring ) , and bugling , a loud series of vocalizations which establishes dominance over other males  और  attracts females .
Elk  हैं  susceptible to a number of infectious diseases , some of  जिससे   can  be transmitted to livestock .
Efforts to  eliminate  infectious diseases from elk populations , largely through vaccination , have had mixed success .
Some cultures revere the elk as  a  spiritual force .
In parts of Asia , antlers  और   उनके  velvet are used in traditional medicines .
नीलगाय  are  hunted  as a game  प्रजाति  ; the meat is leaner and higher in protein than beef or chicken .
The George Washington University ( GW , GWU , or George Washington )  is  a comprehensive private , coeducational research university located  in  Washington , D.C. .
It awards certificates , Bachelor degrees , Masters degrees , and PhDs across several dozen disciplines .
the  university was chartered by  an  Act of Congress  on  February 9 , 1821 as The Columbian  कॉलेज  in the District of Columbia .
The  शेर   (  Panthera leo ) is one of the four big cats in the genus Panthera and a  सदस्य  of the family Felidae .
साथ  some males exceeding in weight , it is the second-largest  जीना  cat after the tiger .
जंगली  lions currently exist in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia ( where an endangered remnant population resides in Gir Forest National Park in India  )  while other types of lions have disappeared from North Africa and Southwest Asia  in  historic times .
Until  the  late Pleistocene , about 10,000 years ago , the lion  थी  the most widespread large land mammal after humans .
They were found  in  most of Africa , across Eurasia  इससे  western Europe to India , and in the Americas from  the  Yukon to Peru .
The lion is a vulnerable species , having seen a major population decline of 30–50 % over the past  दो  decades in its African range .
Lion populations are untenable outside designated reserves  और  national parks .
Although the cause of the decline is not fully understood ,  आवास  loss and conflicts with humans are currently the greatest causes of concern .
Within Africa , the West African lion population is particularly endangered .
Lions live for  10–14  years in the wild , while in captivity they can live longer than 20 years .
In the wild , males seldom live longer than 10 years , as injuries  sustained  from continual fighting with rival males greatly reduce their longevity .
They typically inhabit savanna and  घासभूमि  , although they may take to bush and forest .
शेर  are unusually social compared to  अन्य   बिल्लियों  .
A pride of lions  consists  of related females and offspring and a small number of adult males .
Groups of female lions typically hunt together , preying mostly on large ungulates .
Lions are apex and  keystone  predators , although they scavenge as opportunity allows .
While lions do  नहीं  typically hunt humans , some have  महरूम  known to do so .
Sleeping mainly during the day , lions are primarily nocturnal , although bordering on crepuscular in nature .
Highly  distinctive  , the male lion is easily recognised by its mane , and its face is one of the most widely recognised animal symbols in human culture .
Depictions have existed from the Upper Paleolithic period , with carvings and paintings from the Lascaux and  chauvet  Caves , through virtually all ancient and medieval cultures where they  एकबार  occurred .
It has been extensively depicted in sculptures , in paintings , on national flags , and in contemporary films and literature .
Lions have been  रखा  in menageries since the time of the Roman Empire  ,  and have been a key species  sought   लिये  exhibition in zoos over the world  चूंकि  the late 18th century .
Zoos are cooperating worldwide in breeding programs for the endangered Asiatic subspecies .
In  the  history of video games , the seventh generation of consoles is the previous generation  ,  and includes consoles released since late by Nintendo , Microsoft , and Sony .
For home consoles , the seventh generation began on 22 November 2005  साथ  the release of Xbox 360 and continued with the release of PlayStation 3 on 11 November 2006  ,  and Wii on 19 November 2006 .
Each new console introduced  a  new type of breakthrough in  प्रौद्योगिकी  .
The Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at HD resolutions , the PlayStation 3 offered , in addition to FHD gaming , HD movie playback  via  a built-in  3d  Blu-ray Disc player , and the Wii focused on integrating controllers with movement sensors as well as joysticks .
joining  Nintendo in the motion market , Sony released the PlayStation Move in September 2010  .
The PlayStation Move  सुविधाएँ  motion sensing gaming  ,  similar to that of  the  Wii .
microsoft  also joined Sony and Nintendo , with its Kinect .
Unlike the other two systems ( PlayStation 3  और  Wii ) , Kinect does not use any controllers of  कोई   sort  and  makes  the users the `` controller . ''
Having sold 8 million units in  इसके   पहला  60 days on the  मार्केट  , Kinect has claimed the Guinness World Record of being the `` fastest selling consumer electronics device '' .
While the Xbox 360 offers wired controllers  as  a standalone product , all  प्लेस्टेशन  3 controllers can  be  used in wired and wireless configurations .
Starting with handheld consoles , the  सातवाँ  generation began on 21 November 2004 with the North American introduction of the Nintendo DS as a `` third pillar '' , alongside Nintendo 's existing Game Boy Advance and GameCube consoles .
The Nintendo DS  (  NDS ) features a touch screen and  built-in  microphone ,  और   supports  wireless IEEE 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards .
Additionally , the  संशोधित  version  of  the NDS , the DSi  ,  features two built in cameras , the ability to download games from the DSi store ,  और  a  वेब  browser .
The PlayStation Portable , or  psp  , released later the same year  on  12 December 2004 , followed a different pattern .
It became  the  first handheld  वीडियो  game console to  उपयोग  an optical disc format , Universal Media Disc ( UMD ) , as its primary  भंडार  media .
Sony also  दिया  the PSP robust multi-media  काबिलियत  , connectivity with the PlayStation 3  और  other PSPs , and Internet connectivity .
The Nintendo DS likewise has connectivity to  the  internet through the Nintendo  wi-fi  Connection and  निन्टेंडो   ds  Browser , as well as wireless connectivity to other DS systems and Wii  consoles  .
Despite high sales numbers for  दोनो  consoles , PlayStation Portable sales have  consistently  lagged behind those of the  निन्टेंडो  DS ; nevertheless , the PlayStation Portable has the distinction of being the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming system .
Sgt . Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club  बैंड   (  often shortened to Sgt . Pepper ) is the eighth studio album by English rock band the Beatles .
released  in June 1967 , the album included songs such as `` With a Little Help from My Friends `` , `` Lucy  in  the Sky with Diamonds ``  ,  and `` A Day in the Life `` .
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ) , Sgt . Pepper further departed from the conventional pop rock idiom of  the   समय  and incorporated balladry , psychedelic , music hall , and symphonic influences .
During the Sgt . Pepper sessions , the group improved upon the quality of their music 's production while exploring experimental recording techniques .
Producer George Martin 's innovative approach included the use of an orchestra .
Widely acclaimed and imitated , the album cover , designed by English pop  कलाकारों   पीटर  Blake and Jann Haworth , was inspired  by  a sketch by Paul McCartney that depicted the band posing in front  of  a collage  of  some of their favourite celebrities .
Sgt . Pepper was a worldwide  नाजुक  and commercial success , spending 27 weeks at the top of the UK Album Chart and 15 weeks at number one on the US Billboard 200 .
A seminal work in the emerging psychedelic rock style , the album was critically acclaimed upon release and won  चार  Grammy Awards in 1968 .
With an estimated 32 million copies sold , it is  एक  of  the  world 's best selling albums .
Sgt  .  Pepper is considered by many to be the  सबसे  influential and famous rock  एल्बम  ever , and has been named the greatest album  of  all time by both All  समय  Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone .
The temporal lobe is a region  of  the cerebral cortex that is located beneath the lateral fissure on both cerebral hemispheres  of  the mammalian brain .
The temporal lobes are involved in the retention of visual memories , processing  संवेदी  input , comprehending language  ,  storing new memories , emotion , and deriving meaning .
The human lungs are the  अंगों  of  श्वसन  in humans .
Humans have two lungs , a right lung and a left lung .
The right lung consists  of  three lobes while the left lung is slightly smaller consisting of only two lobes ( the left lung has a `` cardiac notch '' allowing  स्पेस   लिये  the heart  भीतर  the  छाती  ) .
Together , the lungs contain approximately of airways  और  300 to 500 million alveoli  ,  having  a  total surface area of about (  )  in adults — roughly  the   वही  area as one side of a tennis court .
Furthermore , if  सब  of the capillaries that surround  the  alveoli were unwound and laid end to end , they  होता  extend for about  .
Each lung weighs  ,  therefore making the  संपूर्ण  organ about .
Human lungs
The trachea divides into two bronchi ( one for each side ) at the level of T4 .
This junction is also  ज्ञात  as the carina .
The conducting zone contains the trachea , the bronchi , the bronchioles , and the terminal bronchioles The respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles ,  the  alveolar  नलिकाएं  , and the alveoli .
the   conducting  zone  और  the respiratory stuffers (  लकिन  not the alveoli  )  are made up of airways .
The conducting zone has no gas exchange  साथ  the blood , and is reinforced with cartilage in order to hold open the airways .
The conducting zone warms  the  air to and humidifies the air .
It also cleanses the air by removing particles via cilia located  on  the walls of all the passageways .
The lungs are surrounded by the rib cage .
The  respiratory  zone is the  साईट  of gas exchange with blood  .
The sympathetic nervous system via noradrenaline  एक्टिंग   on  the beta receptors causes bronchodilation .
The parasympathetic nervous system  via   acetylcholine  , which acts on  the  M-3  muscarinic  receptors , maintains the resting tone of  the  bronchiolar smooth muscle .
This action is related  ,  although considered  पृथक   इससे  bronchoconstriction .
Many other non-autonomic nervous and biochemical stimuli , including carbon  डाइऑक्साइड  and oxygen , are also involved in the regulation process .
The pleural cavity is  the  potential space  between  the parietal  pleura  , lining the inner wall of the  thoracic  cage , and the  visceral  pleura lining the lungs .
the  lung parenchyma is strictly used to refer solely to alveolar tissue with respiratory bronchioles  ,  alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles .
However , it often includes any form of lung tissue ,  भी  including bronchioles , bronchi , blood vessels and lung  interstitium   .
The margarita is a Mexican cocktail consisting of tequila mixed with Cointreau or similar orange -flavoured liqueur and lime or lemon juice , often served  साथ  salt on the glass rim .
It is  the  most common  tequila-based  cocktail  in  the United States .
the   पेय  is  परोसा  shaken with ice  (  on the rocks ) , blended with ice ( frozen  मार्गरिटा  )  ,  or without ice ( straight up ) .
Two bottles of red Burgundy wine  इससे  Gevrey-Chambertin ,  côtes  de Nuits
Burgundy is a dark red color associated  साथ  the Burgundy wine of the same name , which in turn is named after the Burgundy region of France .
The color burgundy is similar to other  शेड्स  of dark red such as maroon .
जब  referring to the color  ,  `` burgundy '' is usually not capitalized .
The first recorded use of `` burgundy  ''  as a  रंग  name in English was  in  1881  .
Grave of  an  unknown  अंग्रेजों   सिपाही  , killed in  1943  during the Battle of Leros .
Because his identity is unknown  ,  he is missing in action .
Grave of an unknown  अमरीकी  soldier in Oise-Aisne Cemetery .
Killed in 1917
Grave of an unknown paratrooper , killed in the Battle of Arnhem , 1944 .
Photographed in  अप्रैल   1945
क़ब्रों  of 11 unknown British soldiers killed during World War II , in Rhodes CWGC war cemetery
वॉल  crypts containing remains of unknown Italian soldiers killed during World  युद्ध  II , in a Rhodes  कब्रिस्तान
Some of the 72,000 names inscribed on the Thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the  somme
Graves of unknown French soldiers  मारे  during World  युद्ध   एक   .
Each concrete cross has a metal plaque bearing the word `` Inconnu '' i.e  .   ``  Unknown ''
Ossuary at the Gallipoli  रणभूमि  , containing the remains of 3000 unidentified French soldiers who died in 1915
Graves of unknown Eritrean Ascaris  मारे  in 1941 during the Battle of  keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is a casualty Category assigned under the Status of Missing to armed services personnel who are reported missing during active service .
They may have been killed ,  wounded  ,  become  a prisoner of  युद्ध  , or deserted .
If deceased ,  neither  their remains nor grave  can  be positively identified .
Becoming MIA has been an occupational risk for service personnel for as long as there has been warfare .
Chamber of Commerce Building in Center .
This building is the original jail , built along with the Historic Courthouse .
Both sit on the Town Square .
The  रिओ  Theater in Center
पहला  Baptist Church  at  117  कोरा  Street in Center is located next to the downtown section .
First Christian Church at 124 Cora Street in Center is one of the oldest congregations in the  जातियाँ  .
बीच  is  a  city in Shelby County , Texas  ,  United States .
The population  थी  5,193  at  the 2010 census .
It is the county seat of Shelby County .
It  is  named for its location near the  बीच   of  Shelby County , not for its location in Texas as it  is  located  निकट  the Louisiana border .
Intense red-eye effect in blue eyes with dilated pupil
The red-eye effect in photography is the common appearance of red pupils in color photographs of eyes .
It  occurs   जब   using  a photographic flash  बहुत  close to the camera lens ( as with  सबसे  compact cameras ) , in ambient low light .
The effect appears in the eyes of humans and animals that have tapetum lucidum .
Theatrical followspot operators , positioned nearly coincidentally with  a  very bright light and somewhat distant from the actors , occasionally witness red-eye in actors on stage .
The effect is not visible to the rest of the audience because it is reliant on the  बहुत  small angle between the  followspot  operator  और  the light .
The University of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   ,   सांता  Barbara ( commonly referred to as UC Santa Barbara or UCSB ) is a public research university and one of the  टेन  general campuses of the University of California system .
The main campus is located on a site in Goleta ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , United States , from Santa Barbara and northwest  of  Los Angeles .
Tracing its  जड़ें   वापस  to 1891 as an  स्वतंत्र  teachers ' college , UCSB joined  the  University of California system in 1944 and is the third-oldest general-education campus in the system .
UCSB is  एक  of America 's Public Ivy universities , which recognizes  शीर्ष  public research universities in the United States .
The university is a comprehensive doctoral university and  is  organized into five colleges and schools offering 87  undergraduate  degrees and 55 graduate degrees .
The campus is the 6th-largest in the UC system by enrollment with 18,977 undergraduate and 2,950 graduate students .
In 2012 , UCSB was ranked 41st  among  `` National Universities ''  और  10th among public universities  by   u.S.  News &  संसार  Report .
The university was  भी  ranked 35th worldwide by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings and 34th worldwide ( 6th worldwide for engineering ) by the Academic Ranking of World Universities in  2012.  < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 ''  >
uc  Santa Barbara is a `` very high activity '' research university and spent  $  191.2 million on research expenditures in  the  2007 fiscal year , 97th-largest in the United States .
UCSB houses twelve national research centers  ,  including the renowned Kavli  संस्थान  for Theoretical Physics .
UCSB faculty  शामिल  five Nobel Prize laureates , one Fields Medalist , 29 members of  the  National Academy of Sciences ,  27  members of the National Academy of Engineering  ,  and 31 members  of  the American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
UCSB was  the   no  . 3 host on the ARPAnet and was elected to the Association of  अमरीकी  Universities in 1995 .
The UC Santa Barbara Gauchos compete  in  the NCAA Division I Big West Conference .
The Gauchos have won NCAA national championships in men 's soccer and men 's water polo .
Saint Joseph with the Infant Jesus by Guido Reni
Saint Joseph  's  Day , March  19  , the Feast of St. Joseph is in Western Christianity the principal feast day of Saint  जोसेफ  , Spouse  of  the Blessed Virgin Mary  .
He is  भी  the step-father of Jesus of Nazareth /Jesus Christ  .
It has the rank of a solemnity  in  the Roman Catholic Church ; Catholics who follow the Missal of 1962 celebrate it as  a  first class feast .
Previous to 1962 it was celebrated  as  a feast of the rank of  दोगुना  of the first class .
It is a feast or commemoration in  the  provinces  of  the Anglican Communion , and a feast or festival in the Lutheran  गिरिजाघर  .
Saint  जोसेफ  's  दिन   is  the Patronal Feast day for Poland  as  well as for Canada , persons named Joseph , Josephine , etc. , for  धार्मिक  institutes , schools and parishes bearing his name , and for carpenters  .
It is  भी  Father 's Day in some Catholic countries , mainly  स्पेन  , Portugal , and Italy  .
March 19 was dedicated to Saint Joseph in several Western calendars by the tenth century , and  इस  custom was established in Rome by 1479 .
Pope St. Pius V extended its use to the entire Roman Rite by  उसके  Apostolic Constitution Quo Primum ( July 14  ,  1570 ) .
Since 1969 , Episcopal Conferences may , if they wish , transfer it to a  तिथि  outside Lent .
Between  1870   और  1955  ,  a feast was celebrated in honor of St. Joseph  as  Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary and Patron of  the  Universal Church , the latter title having been  दिए  to him by Pope Pius IX  .
Originally celebrated on the third Sunday after Easter with an octave , after Divino Afflatu of St. Pius X  (   देखिए  Reform of the Roman Breviary by Pope Pius X ) , it was moved to  the  preceding Wednesday .
the   feast  was also retitled The  solemnity  of Saint Joseph .
This celebration and its accompanying octave was abolished during the modernisation and simplification of rubrics under Pope Pius XII in 1955 .
It is still maintained  by  Catholics who follow the missal of 1962 or earlier missals .
As the traditional holiday  of   the  Apostles Ss . Philip and James , May 1 , had faded from the  मेमोरी   of  most Catholics by the mid-twentieth century ,  कि  of Joseph the Worker was created  in  order to coincide with  the  celebration of international Labour  दिन  ( May Day ) in many countries .
The feast of Ss . Philip and  जेम्स  , which had been celebrated  on   कि  date since the sixth century , was moved from its traditional place .
In the new calendar published in 1969 , the feast , which at one time occupied the highest possible  रैंक  in the Church calendar , was reduced  to  an  वैकल्पिक  Memorial , the lowest rank for a saint 's day .
The Eastern Orthodox Church celebrates Saint Joseph on the  संडे  after Christmas .
Mariah Carey ( born March 27 , 1970 ) is an American singer , songwriter , record producer , actress , and philanthropist .
Under the guidance of  कोलंबिया  Records executive Tommy Mottola , Carey released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and  शाखित  four consecutive number one singles on the  u.s  . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
Following  उसके  marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records Emotions  (  1991 ) , Music Box ( 1993 ) , and Merry  क्रिसमस   (   1994  ) , Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act .
Daydream ( 1995 )  बना  music history when its second single `` One Sweet  दिन  `` , a duet with Boyz II Men ,  खर्च   a  record sixteen weeks on  शीर्ष  of the Billboard Hot 100 , and remains the longest-running number-one song in  u.S.  chart history .
During the recording  of   the  album , Carey  began  to deviate from her R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop .
This musical change became evident with the release of  तितली  ( 1997  )  , at which time Carey had  अलग  from Mottola .
Carey left Columbia in 2000 , and signed a record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin Records .
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ) ,  वो   suffered  a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized  लिये  severe exhaustion .
Following  the  film 's poor reception , she  थी  bought out of  उसके  recording contract for $ 50 million , which led to a decline in her career .
She signed a  multi-million   डालर  contract deal with Island Records in 2002 , and after an unsuccessful period  ,  returned to the top of  म्यूज़िक   चार्ट  with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ) .
Its second single `` We Belong  साथ  `` became her  सबसे  successful single of the 2000s , and was  बाद  named `` Song of the Decade  ''   by  Billboard .
Carey once again  ventured  into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was  awarded  the  ``  Breakthrough Performance  पुरस्कार  '' at the Palm Springs  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Film Festival , and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations .
In a career spanning over two decades , Carey has  बेची  more than 200 million records worldwide , making  उसके  one of the best-selling music  कलाकारों  of all time .
In 1998 ,  वो  was honored as the  संसार  's best-selling  रिकॉर्डिंग  artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards  .
Carey  थी  also named the  best-selling  female artist of the  मिलेनियम  in 2000 .
According to  the   रिकॉर्डिंग  Industry Association  of  America , she is the third best-selling female artist in the United States ,  साथ  63.5 million  certified  albums .
With the release of ``  टच  My Body ``  (  2008 ) , Carey gained her eighteenth number one single in the United States , more than any other solo artist .
in  2012 , Carey was ranked second on  vh1  's list of the  ``  100 Greatest Women in Music  ''   .
Aside from her commercial accomplishments , Carey has won five Grammy Awards , 17 World Music Awards , 11 American Music Awards  ,  and 31 Billboard Music Awards .
Referred to  as  the ``  songbird  supreme '' by the Guinness World Records , she is  famed  for her five-octave vocal range , power , melismatic style and signature use  of   the  whistle register  .
A bumblebee is any member of the bee genus Bombus , in the family Apidae .
There are over 250 known species , existing primarily in the Northern Hemisphere although they also occur in South America .
They have  महरूम  introduced to New Zealand and the Australian state of Tasmania .
Bumblebees are social insects that are  characterised  by black and yellow body hairs  ,  often in bands .
However , some species have orange or red on their bodies , or may be entirely  ब्लैक  .
Another obvious ( but not unique ) characteristic is the soft  प्रकृति  of the hair ( long , branched setae )  ,  called pile , that covers their entire body , making them appear and feel fuzzy .
They are best distinguished from similarly large ,  फजी  bees by the form of the female hind leg , which is  परिवर्धित  to form a corbicula :  a  shiny  concave  surface that is bare ,  लकिन  surrounded by a fringe of hairs used to transport pollen ( in similar bees ,  the  hind leg is completely hairy , and pollen grains are wedged into the hairs for transport )  .
Like their relatives the honey bees , bumblebees feed on nectar  और  gather pollen to feed their  यंग  .
A man openly carrying a handgun in a Burger King in Eagle ,  कोलोराडो   .
In the United States , open carry is shorthand terminology for ``  खुलकर  carrying a firearm in public '' , as distinguished from concealed carry , where firearms can not be seen by the casual observer .
The practice of open carry ,  जहाँ  gun owners openly carry firearms while they go about their daily business , has seen  an  increase in the U.S. in recent years .
This has been marked by a  क्रमांक  of organized events intended to increase the visibility of open carry and public awareness about the  अभ्यास  .
Proponents  of   खोलें  carry point to history and statistics , noting that criminals usually  छिपाते   उनके   हथियार  .
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org , GeorgiaCarry.org and some participants of the Free  राज्य  Project , open carry has seen a revival in recent years , but it is not yet clear if this represents  बस  a short-term trend  .
The gun rights community has been mixed in its response .
Alan  gottlieb  of the Second Amendment Foundation and the NRA  have  been cautious in expressing support , while special-interest  समूह  such as the  aforementioned  OpenCarry.org and GeorgiaCarry.org , and certain national groups such  as  the Gun Owners of America ( GOA ) have been more outspoken in favor of the practice  .
खोलें  carry is strongly opposed by gun control groups such as the Brady Campaign and the Coalition to Stop  गन  Violence .
The Cattenom  नाभिकीय  Power Plant in France .
France produces around three quarters of its electricity by nuclear power .
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant in Germany .
Chancellor Angela  मार्केल  's coalition announced on May 30 , 2011 , that Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022 , in a policy reversal following  जापानी  's  फुकुशिमा  Daiichi nuclear disaster .
Currently , 68 reactors are under construction in 15 countries .
Nuclear power stations operate in thirty countries .
In 2010 , before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear  विपत्ति  , it was reported that an average of  परिचय  10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year , although according to the World  नाभिकीय  Association , of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009 , only five actually came on stream .
As of June 2011 , Germany and Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power  .
as   of   जून  2011 , countries such as Australia , Austria , Denmark , Greece , Ireland ,  इटली   ,  Latvia , Liechtenstein , Luxembourg , Malaysia , Malta , New  जीलैंड  , Norway and Portugal  remain  opposed  to  nuclear power .
Color motion  चित्र   फिल्मी   refers  both to unexposed color photographic film in a format suitable for use in a motion picture camera  ,  and to finished motion picture film , ready for  उपयोग  in a projector , which  bears  images  in  color  .
The  पहला  color cinematography was by means of additive color systems such as the one patented in England by Edward  रेमंड  Turner in  1899  and tested in 1902  .
A simplified additive  प्रणाली  was developed by George Albert Smith and successfully commercialized in 1909 as Kinemacolor .
These early systems used black-and-white film  to  photograph and project two or more component images through different color filters .
Still  इससे  footage recorded by  एडवर्ड  Turner in 1902
With the present-day technology , there are two distinct processes :  eastman  Color Negative 2 chemistry ( camera negative  स्टॉक्स  , duplicating interpositive  और  internegative stocks ) and Eastman Color Positive 2 chemistry ( positive prints for direct projection  )  , usually abbreviated as ECN-2 and ECP-2 .
Fuji 's  उत्पाद  are compatible with ECN-2  और  ECP-2 .
Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas ( born October 13 ,  1980  ) is an American singer-songwriter , record producer , and actress .
Ashanti is most famous  लिये  her eponymous debut album , which  प्रदर्शित  the hit song `` Foolish `` , and sold over 503,000 copies in its first week of release throughout the  u.S.  in April 2002 .
The album set a Soundscan record as the biggest opening week sales for a new female artist , outselling debuts by Alicia  कुंजियाँ  and Lauryn Hill .
In the same  सप्ताह  , she became the first female performer to simultaneously hold the top two places  on  the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart with `` Foolish '' , and `` What 's Luv ? ``
( with Fat  जो  ) .
Ashanti broke records again  by  having  तीन  top ten songs , `` Foolish , '' `` What 's Luv ? '' and `` Always on Time  ``  , on the Billboard Hot  100  charts in the same week , being the first woman to accomplish this feat and being second only  to  the Beatles .
In 2003 , the self-titled  डेब्यू  album won Ashanti her first Grammy Award for Best Contemporary R  &  B album .
As of April 1st 2013 , Ashanti has sold over 27.7 million records worldwide .
Ashanti ended the decade ( 2000–09 ) as the third top new R & B artist behind Alicia Keys and  बेयोंस  .
She also ended the decade at number 38 on the Top Artist of the Decade list  .
She is currently on the list of The Twenty Best Selling Music Singles Since 1990 for her single Foolish for selling 7.2 million copies to-date .
Ashanti has an estimated net worth of $ 40 million dollars [ USD ] .
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It Funny ( Murder Remix ) `` , which reached number one on  बिलबोर्ड  Hot  100   ,  which was also in the top 10 chart  at  the same  समय  as `` Foolish '' , `` Always on Time '' ( with Ja Rule )  ,  and `` What 's Luv '' ( with  मोटे  Joe ) .
Later that year  ,  she was acclaimed as the `` Princess Of Hip-Hop & R & B '' by  उसके  label and capped  बंद  her successful  डेब्यू  by winning eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards .
Within seven years of Ashanti 's career , she has scored 16 top 40 hits on the Hot 100 .
Ashanti has endorsed numerous products including Gap , Herbal Essences and Mudd Jeans  .
ashanti  cites Whitney Houston  ,  Janet Jackson , Prince , Madonna  ,  Tupac Shakur , Mary J. Blige , Ella Fitzgerald , Smokey  रॉबिन्सन  , Donna Summer , and Blue Magic as her musical influences .
Praised  as  a gifted songwriter by her peers and critics  alike  , Ashanti has written/co-written the  बल्क  of all her  म्यूज़िक  .
She is currently working on her own  प्रकाशन  company entitled Written Entertainment .
She released her fourth studio album  हकदार  The Declaration on June 3 , 2008 and is  फिलहाल  in the  स्टुडियो  working  on  her fifth .
She also performed the charity  धुन  `` Just Stand Up `` alongside 15 other female singers for  the   ``  Stand Up to  कर्कट  '' live television special which helped raise $ 100 million dollars for cancer research .
The United States Army Air Forces ( USAAF or AAF  )  was the military aviation arm of the United States of America  दौरान  and  तत्काल  after World War II , and the direct predecessor of the  संयुक्त  States Air Force .
the  AAF was a component of the United  राज्य  Army , which in 1942 was divided functionally by executive order into three autonomous forces : the  फौज  Ground Forces , the  सेवाएं  of Supply ( which in 1943 became the Army Service Forces ) , and the AAF .
Each of these forces had a commanding general  जो  reported directly  to  the Chief of Staff of the United States Army  .
The AAF administered all parts of military aviation formerly distributed among the Army Air Corps , General  मुख्यालय  Air Force , and ground forces corps area commanders , and thus became the  पहला  air organization  of  the U.S. Army to control its own installations and support personnel .
In practice , the AAF was virtually autonomous inside the Army .
The  शिखर  size of the AAF  थी  over 2.4 million men and women in service and nearly 80,000 aircraft in 1944 , and 783 domestic bases in December 1943 .
By VE Day it had 1.25 million men stationed overseas and operated from more than 1,600 airfields worldwide .
The Air Corps became the  फौज  Air Forces in June 1941  to  provide the air arm a greater autonomy in which to  विस्तार  more efficiently , and  to  provide a structure for the additional command echelons  जरूरी  by a vastly  increased   फ़ोर्स  .
Although other nations already had separate air forces independent  of  the army  or  navy ( such as the British Royal Air Force and the German Luftwaffe ) , the AAF  remained   a   भाग  of the United  राज्य  Army until the United States Air Force came into being in September 1947 .
However , in its expansion and conduct  of  the war , the AAF became more than just an arm of the greater  संगठन  .
By the end of  संसार  War II the AAF had become virtually an independent service .
By regulation and executive order , the AAF was a subordinate agency of the War Department tasked only with organizing , training , and equipping combat units , limited in responsibility to the continental United  राज्य  , as were the Army Ground Forces and the Army Service Forces .
In reality  ,   मुख्यालय  AAF controlled the conduct of  सब  aspects  of  the air war in every part of the world , determining air policy and issuing orders  बगैर  transmitting them through the Chief of Staff .
This `` contrast between theory and  फैक्ट  is ... fundamental to an understanding of the AAF . ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a federal freedom of information law that allows for the  पूरा   or  partial disclosure of previously unreleased information  और  documents  नियंत्रित   by   the  United States government .
The Act defines agency records subject  to   प्रकटीकरण  , outlines mandatory disclosure procedures and grants nine exemptions to the statute .
It was originally signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson , despite his misgivings , on July 4 , 1966 as  और  went into effect the  following  year .
The Federal Government 's Freedom of Information Act should not be  उलझन  with the different and varying Freedom of Information Acts passed  by  the individual states  .
Many  of  those state acts may be similar but not identical to the federal act .
The European  संघ  ( EU ) is an economic and political union of 27 member states that are located primarily in Europe .
The  eu  operates through a system of supranational independent institutions  और  intergovernmental negotiated decisions by the member states .
Institutions of the  eu   शामिल   the  European Commission , the  परिषद   of  the European Union  ,  the European Council , the Court of Justice of the European  संघ  , the European Central  बैंको  , the Court of Auditors , and the European Parliament .
The European  पार्लियामेंट  is elected every five years by EU citizens .
The EU 's de facto capital is Brussels .
The EU traces its  origins  from  the   यूरोपीय  Coal  और  Steel Community ( ECSC ) and the European Economic Community ( EEC ) , formed by the Inner Six countries in  1951  and 1958 respectively .
In the intervening years the community and its successors have grown in size by the accession of new member states and in power  by  the addition of policy areas to its remit .
The Maastricht Treaty established the European Union under its current name  in  1993 .
The latest major amendment to  the  constitutional basis  of  the EU  ,   the  Treaty of Lisbon , came into force in 2009  .
The EU  रै  developed a  सिंगल   मार्केट  through a standardised system of laws that apply in  सब   सदस्य  states .
Within the Schengen Area (  जिससे  includes 22 EU and 4 non-EU  राज्य  ) passport controls  have  been abolished .
EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people , goods , services , and capital , enact legislation in justice and home affairs , and maintain common policies on trade , agriculture , fisheries  और  regional development .
A monetary union , the eurozone , was established in 1999 and is composed of 17  सदस्य  states .
Through the Common Foreign and  सुरक्षा  Policy the EU has developed a role  in  external relations  और  defence  .
Permanent  राजनयिक  missions have been established around the world  .
The EU is represented at the United Nations  ,  the WTO , the G8 and the G-20 .
With a  संयुक्त  population of over 500 million inhabitants , or 7.3 % of the world population ,  the  EU , in 2012 , generated a nominal gross domestic  उत्पाद  ( GDP  )  of 16.584 trillion US dollars , representing approximately 20 % of the global GDP when measured in terms of purchasing power parity , and represents the largest nominal  जीडीपी  and GDP PPP in the world .
The EU was the recipient of the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize .
The Wales national rugby league team  represent  Wales  in  international  रग्बी  league football matches .
Currently the team is seventh in the RLIF World Rankings .
The team were run under the auspices of the Rugby Football League , but an independent body , Wales  रग्बी   लीग   ,  now  रनों   the   टोली  from Cardiff .
A total of  तीन  Welsh players have been entered into the Rugby League Hall Of Fame .
समान  to many other Welsh national sporting  टीमों  , Wales strip has been primarily red for many years , including now .
However in their last  संसार   कप  campaign in 2000 they did  पहनें  a shirt featuring the Welsh flag , adding a touch of green and  श्वेत  .
The team is known as `` The Dragons '' and so the teams  लोगो  on the shirt is  a  red dragon .
The team date back to 1907 , making them the third oldest national side  बाद  England and  नई  Zealand .
And it was a touring New Zealand side that Wales first played against in 1908 , winning 9-8 at  aberdare  .
Since then Wales have  regularly  played England , since  1935  France , as well as  सत्कार  the touring Australia and New Zealand teams ,  हालांकि  they rarely toured themselves ,  नहीं  playing a match in the Southern Hemisphere until 1975 .
For  twenty-six  years Wales competed against their two biggest rivals , England and France , in the European Nations Cup , winning the trophy four  टाइम्स  .
Wales have also competed in the World Cup  on   तीन  occasions  ,  the first time being in 1975 .
In 1995  और   2000  they had their most successful tournaments to date ,  surprisingly  making the Semi-Finals on both occasions before being beaten by England and Australia respectively .
Wales failed to qualify for the 2008 World Cup  ,  being the second highest ranked side not to do so , having  खोया  to Scotland on points difference over two matches .
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became the new head coach and appointed Lee Briers as captain ,  having  played  लिये  Wales since  1998  .
In recent seasons Wales have taken  विशाल  strides under former player Iestyn  हैरिस  who has coached Wales to back to back European Cup successes , which culminated in a Four Nations appearance  in  2011 .
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the function of the  myocardium  ( the heart muscle ) for any reason , usually leading to heart failure ; common symptoms are dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and  परिधीय  edema (  सूजन  of the legs )  .
People with cardiomyopathy  हैं  often at risk of dangerous forms of irregular  दिल  beat and sudden cardiac death .
the  most common form of cardiomyopathy is dilated cardiomyopathy .
Fuck in its  शाब्दिक  meaning refers to the act of sexual  मैथुन  .
It is an English word that is  प्रायः  used as a profanity ,  either  to denote disdain or as  an  intensifier .
The origin  of  the word is obscure .
It is usually considered to be first attested  to  around 1475 , but it may be  considerably  older .
In modern usage , fuck  और  its derivatives  (  such as  कमीने  and  fucking  ) can be used in the position of a noun , a verb , an adjective or an adverb .
There are many common phrases which make use of the word , as well as a number of compounds incorporating it ,  ऐसे  as motherfucker .
Note : this article adopts the  u.S.  Department of Transportation 's definition of  a  passenger vehicle , to mean a car or truck , used for passengers , excluding buses and trains .
The United States is home to the largest passenger vehicle market of any country in the  संसार  .
Overall , there were an estimated 254.4 million registered passenger vehicles  in  the United States  according  to a 2007 DOT study .
This number , along with the average age of vehicles , has increased steadily since 1960 , indicating a  growing  number of vehicles per capita .
The Chinese car market , however  ,  is poised to  जल्द  exceed the  संयुक्त  States ; by  the  end of 2012 , there were over 240  लाख  cars  on  the road in China .
The United States is also home to three large vehicle  निर्माताओं  : General Motors , Ford Motor Company and Chrysler , which have  historically  been referred to as the `` Big Three . ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the top three ;  लकिन   is  number five , behind Toyota and  होंडा  .
The motor car has clearly become an integral part of American life , with vehicles outnumbering  licensed  drivers .
Clinical laboratory in a Hospital setting showing several automated analysers .
A medical laboratory or clinical laboratory is a laboratory where tests are done on clinical  नमूनों  in order to get information about the health of  a  patient as pertaining to the diagnosis , treatment  ,  and prevention  of  disease  .
In poker  ,  players  construct  hands of five cards according to predetermined rules , which vary according  to  which variant of poker is being played .
These  हैंड्स  are compared using a hand ranking system  कि  is  मानक  across all variants of poker , the player with the highest-ranking hand winning that particular  सौदे  in most variants of  पोकर   .
In some variants  ,  the lowest-ranking hand can win or tie  .
These hand rankings  हैं  also used in some other card  खेल  , and in poker  dice   .
The ranking of a particular hand is increased by including multiple cards of the same card rank , by  सब  five cards being from the  वही  suit , or  by  all five cards being of consecutive rank .
The relative ranking of the various hand categories is  आधारित   on   the  probability of being randomly dealt such a hand from a well- shuffled deck .
Bruce Randall Hornsby ( born November 23  ,  1954 ) is an American virtuoso ; a singer , pianist , synthesizer , accordion , and dulcimer player , and songwriter .
Known for the spontaneity and creativity of his live performances , Hornsby draws frequently  इससे  classical  ,  jazz , bluegrass , folk , Motown , gospel , rock , blues , and jam band musical traditions with his songwriting and the seamless improvisations contained within .
Hornsby 's recordings have been recognised on a number of occasions with industry awards  ,   सहित  the Best New Artist Grammy in 1987 with Bruce Hornsby and the Range , the Best  ब्लूग्रास  Recording Grammy in 1990 , and the Best Pop Instrumental Grammy in 1993 .
Hornsby has  भी  achieved recognition for his solo albums and performances , his  touring  band Bruce Hornsby  और  the Noisemakers , his bluegrass project with Ricky Skaggs and his appearances as a session- and guest-musician .
He also collaborated with  आभारी  Dead and was a member of the band from September 1990  to  March 1992 , playing at over one  सौ  shows  दौरान  that  काल  .
Sugarcane  वृक्षारोपण  in rural Cuba
Agriculture in Cuba has played an  महत्वपूर्ण  part in the economy for several hundred years .
Agriculture contributes less than  10  percent to the gross domestic  उत्पाद   (  GDP ) , but it employs roughly 20 percent of  the  working population .
About 30 percent of the  देश  's land is used for crop cultivation .
The inefficient agricultural industry in Cuba has led to the need to import large amounts of foods .
क्यूबा   अभी  imports about 80 % of the food it rations to the public .
The rationing  कार्यक्रम   खाते  for about  a  third of the  खाना  energy the average Cuban consumes .
Overall , however , Cuba is dependent on imports for only 16  %  of  इसके  food .
right
Mega Millions ( initially called The Big Game Mega Millions as the successor of The Big Game ) is an American multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game .
the   पहला  ( The Big  खेल  )  आचमन  Millions drawing was in 2002 ( see  नीचे  ) .
The minimum  आचमन  Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000 , paid in 26 equal  वार्षिक  installments (  जबतक   the  cash option is chosen ) ;  प्रायः  , the  जैकपॉट  increases when there is no top-prize winner .
However  ,  despite no jackpot winner for the $ 12,000,000 December 18 , 2012 drawing  ,  the jackpot  remained  at $ 12,000,000 for the drawing to be held on December 21 .
( See below for information on how the game 's  जैकपॉट  is funded . )
Reflecting common practice  among  American lotteries  ,  the jackpot  is  advertised  as  a nominal value of annual installments .
A cash value option ( the usual choice ) , when chosen  by   a  jackpot winner ( see  नीचे  ) , pays the approximate present value of the installments  .
Mega Millions currently  उपयोग  a  5/56  ( white balls ) plus 1/46  (  the Mega Ball ) double matrix  to  select its winning numbers .
Each game costs $  1  .
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions  (  California is the exception ) , there is an option  ,  called Megaplier  (  such games are $ 2 each ) where non-jackpot prizes are multiplied by 2 , 3 , or 4 .
The Megaplier  थी  made available to  सब  Mega Millions jurisdictions in January 2011 ;  it  began as a Texas -only option .
Mega Millions is drawn at 10:59 p.m. Eastern time Tuesdays and Fridays , including holidays .
Mega Millions is administered  by  a consortium of its 12 original lotteries and the drawings  हैं  held at WSB-TV in  अटलांटा  , Georgia .
supervised by the Georgia Lottery .
The largest jackpot in Mega Millions , as well as in American lottery  इतिहास  , was $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( with a cash  विकल्प  of $ 474,000,000 ) for the March 30 , 2012  आरेखण  in  जिससे  there were  तीन  jackpot-winning tickets ; one each in Illinois , Kansas , and  मेरीलैंड  .
सब  three tickets had been claimed as of April  18  , with each set of winners choosing the cash option .
is a Japanese manga series created by writer Tsugumi Ohba  और  manga artist Takeshi Obata .
The main character is Light Yagami , a high school student  जो  discovers a supernatural notebook , the `` Death Note '' , dropped on Earth by a  shinigami  ( a god of death )  नामित  Ryuk .
The  मौत  Note  अनुदान   इसके  user the ability  to  kill  anyone  whose name and face they know , by writing the name in the notebook while  picturing  their face .
The series centers around Light 's  attempt  to create and rule a world `` cleansed of evil ''  as  `` God '' using the notebook , and the efforts  of  a detective known as L to stop him .
Death Note was first serialized  in  108 chapters by Shueisha in the  जापानी  manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from December 2003  to  May 2006 .
The series was also  प्रकाशित  in tankōbon format in Japan starting in May 2004 and ending in October 2006 with a total of  तेरह  volumes .
The anime series aired in Japan  इससे  October 3 ,  2006  , to June  26  , 2007  .
Composed of  37  episodes , the anime was developed by Madhouse and directed by Tetsuro Araki .
a  light novel based on the series , written by Nisio Isin  ,  was released in Japan .
Additionally , various video  खेल   have  been  प्रकाशित  by Konami for Nintendo DS .
The series was adapted into live-action films released in Japan on June  17  , 2006  ,  November 3 , 2006 , and February 2 , 2008 .
Viz Media licensed  the  Death Note manga in North  अमेरिका  and has published all the twelve  आयतन  from the series , a 13th volume which serves as a `` reader 's guide '' , as well as the light novels  .
The episodes from the anime first appeared in  उत्तर  America as downloadable by IGN .
Viz  बाद  licensed the anime series and it aired on Bionix  in  Canada and on Cartoon Network in  the  United States .
The live-action films briefly played in certain North American theaters since 2008 .
However , none of the video games have thus far been published in North  अमेरिका  or Europe .
Death Note is one of  साप्ताहिक  Shōnen Jumps best-selling manga series of all time ,  साथ  sales over 26.5 million copies .
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening  ``   )  , also known as All Hallows ' Eve , is a yearly celebration observed in a number  of  countries on October 31  ,  the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas .
According to many scholars  ,  All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally influenced by western European harvest festivals ,  और  festivals of  the  dead with possible pagan roots , particularly the Celtic Samhain .
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of  samhain  and has  solely  Christian roots .
Typical  त्यौहार  Halloween activities include trick-or-treating  (  also  ज्ञात  as `` guising `` ) , attending costume parties , carving pumpkins into  jack-o'-lanterns  , lighting bonfires , apple bobbing , visiting haunted attractions , playing pranks , telling scary stories , and watching horror films .
New York City taxicabs during Midtown rush hour in Manhattan
The taxicabs of New York City , with  उनके  distinctive yellow paint , are  a  widely  पहचाना  icon of the city .
Taxicabs are operated by private companies  और  licensed by the New York  नगर  Taxi and Limousine Commission ( TLC )  .
it  also oversees  over  40,000 other for-hire vehicles , including `` black cars '' , commuter vans  और  ambulettes .
`` Medallion taxis , '' the familiar yellow cabs  ,  are the  तभी   वाहनों  in the  नगर  permitted to pick  up  passengers in response to  a  street hail .
Schematic cross section of part of leaf  ,  xylem shown  as  red circles at figure 8 .
Xylem is one of the two  प्रकार   of   हस्तांतरण  tissue in vascular plants ( phloem  is  the other ) .
The word xylem is derived from the Greek  शब्द  ξύλον ( xylon ) , meaning `` wood  ''  ;  the  best-known xylem tissue  is   लकडी  , though it is found throughout the plant .
Its basic function is to transport water , but it also transports some nutrients through the plant .
U.S. women  suffragists  demonstrating for the right to vote , February 1913  .
महिलाओं  's suffrage also known as woman  suffrage  is the right of women to vote and to run for office .
Limited voting rights were gained by women in  स्वीडन  , Finland and some western U.S. states in the late 19th century  .
International organizations were  formed  to  निर्देशांक  efforts , especially the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Council of Women ( 1888 ) and the International Woman Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ) .
in   1893  , New Zealand , then a self-governing British colony , granted adult women the right to vote  और  the self-governing British colony of South Australia did the same in 1895 , but also permitted women to run for office .
ऑस्ट्रेलिया  federated in 1901  ,  and women acquired the right to vote and stand in federal  चुनावों   इससे  1902 ,  हालांकि  uneven restrictions on Aboriginal women voting in national elections  यहूद   नहीं  completely removed until 1962 .
The first European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the Grand Duchy of Finland , then part of the Russian Empire , which also produced the world 's first female members of parliament  in  the 1907 parliamentary elections .
Norway followed  ,  granting full women 's suffrage  in  1913 .
In most Western countries , women 's suffrage came after World I War I I , with some important late adopters being France in 1944 and Switzerland in 1971 .
Women 's suffrage has  generally  been recognized after  राजनैतिक  campaigns to obtain it were waged .
In many countries it was granted before universal suffrage .
महिलाओं  's suffrage is  explicitly  stated as a right under  the  Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women , adopted by the United Nations in 1979 .
The Thirteenth Tale ( 2006  )  by Diane Setterfield is a gothic  सस्पेंस  novel , the author 's first published book  .
Jehovah 's Witnesses is  a  millenarian restorationist Christian denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs distinct from mainstream  christianity  .Sources for descriptors : • Millenarian : • Restorationist : •  ईसाई  : • Denomination : The organization  रिपोर्ट्स  worldwide membership of over 7.78 million adherents involved in evangelism  ,  convention  उपस्थिति  of over 12 million ,  और  annual Memorial attendance of over 19 million  .
They are directed by the  शासी  Body of  यहोवा  's Witnesses , a group of elders in Brooklyn , New York , that establishes all doctrines  .
यहोवा  's Witnesses ' beliefs are based on their interpretations of the Bible and they  prefer  to use their own translation , the New  संसार  Translation of the Holy Scriptures .
They believe that the destruction  of  the present world system at Armageddon is imminent , and that the establishment of  परमेश्वर  's kingdom on earth is the  तभी  solution for all problems  faced  by mankind  .
The group emerged  इससे  the Bible Student movement —founded in the late  1870s  by Charles Taze Russell with the formation of  zion  's Watch Tower Tract Society —with significant organizational  और  doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin  रदरफोर्ड  .
The name Jehovah 's witnesses , based on Isaiah 43:10–12 , was  अपनाया  in 1931  to  distinguish themselves from other Bible Student groups and symbolize a break with the legacy of Russell 's  परंपराओं  .
Jehovah 's  गवाह  are best  ज्ञात  for their door-to-door preaching , distributing literature such as The Watchtower and Awake  !
, and refusing military service and blood transfusions .
They consider use of the name Jehovah vital for proper worship .
They reject Trinitarianism , inherent immortality of the soul , and  hellfire  , which they  consider  to be unscriptural doctrines .
They do not observe Christmas , Easter ,  जन्मदिन  , or other holidays and customs they consider  to  have pagan origins incompatible with Christianity  .
Adherents commonly refer to their  देह   of  beliefs as `` the truth ''  और  consider themselves to be  ``   in  the truth '' .
They consider secular society to be morally  भ्रष्ट  and  अंतर्गत  the influence of Satan , and most limit their social interaction with non-Witnesses .
Congregational disciplinary actions include  disfellowshipping  , their term for formal expulsion and shunning .
Baptized individuals who formally leave  हैं  considered disassociated and  हैं  also shunned .
Disfellowshipped  और  disassociated individuals may eventually be reinstated if deemed  repentant  .
The  धर्म  's position regarding conscientious objection to military service and refusal to salute national flags has  brought   it   into  conflict with some governments .
Consequently , Jehovah 's Witnesses have been persecuted and  उनके  activities are  बैन   or  restricted in some countries .
Persistent legal challenges by Jehovah 's Witnesses have influenced  विधान  related to civil rights in several countries .
Last Tango in Paris ( ) is a 1972 Franco-Italian romantic  नाटक  film directed by Bernardo Bertolucci which portrays  a  recent American widower who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a young , betrothed Parisian woman .
It stars Marlon Brando , Maria Schneider , and Jean-Pierre Léaud .
The  फिल्मी  's raw portrayal of sexual violence and emotional turmoil led to international controversy and drew various levels of  सरकारी  censorship .
The MPAA gave the film an X rating upon release in the United States .
After revisions were made to the MPAA ratings code , it was classified as an NC-17 in 1997 .
MGM released a censored R-rated cut in 1981 .
The film has its  nc-17  rating for `` some explicit sexual content . ''
Windows  xp  is an operating system produced by Microsoft for use on personal computers , including home and business desktops  ,  laptops  और  media centers  .
पहला   released  to computer manufacturers on  अगस्त  24 , 2001  ,  it  is  the second most popular version of Windows  ,  based on  संस्थापित  user base .
The name `` XP '' is short for `` eXPerience '' , highlighting the enhanced user experience .
Windows  xp  , the successor to Windows 2000  और  Windows ME , was the first consumer-oriented operating system produced by Microsoft to be built on the  खिड़कियाँ  NT kernel .
Windows XP was released worldwide  लिये  retail sale on October 25 , 2001 , and over 400 million copies  यहूद  in use in January 2006 .
it  was succeeded by Windows Vista in January 2007 .
Direct OEM and retail sales of Windows XP  ceased  on June 30 , 2008 .
Microsoft continued to sell  खिड़कियाँ  XP through their  प्रणाली  Builders ( smaller OEMs who sell  समवेत  computers ) program until  जनवरी  31 , 2009 .
On April 10 ,  2012   ,  Microsoft reaffirmed that extended  support  for Windows XP  और  Office 2003 would end on April 8 , 2014 and suggested  कि  administrators begin preparing to migrate  to  a newer OS .
the  NT -based versions of  खिड़कियाँ   ,  which are programmed in C  ,  C++ , and assembly , are  ज्ञात  for their improved stability  और  efficiency  over  the 9x versions  of  Microsoft Windows .
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical user interface , a change Microsoft promoted as  अधिक  user-friendly than previous versions of Windows .
In an  attempt  to further ameliorate the `` DLL hell `` that plagued the past versions of Windows , improved side-by-side assembly technology  in   खिड़कियाँ   xp   allows  side-by-side installation  ,  registration and servicing of multiple versions of globally shared software components in full isolation .
It is also the first version  of  Windows to use product activation to combat illegal copying .
During Windows XP 's development  ,  the  प्रोजेक्ट  was codenamed ``  whistler  '' , after Whistler , British Columbia , as many Microsoft employees  skied  at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort .
According  to  web analytics data generated by Net Applications , Windows XP was the most widely  प्रयुक्त  operating system until  अगस्त  2012 , when Windows 7 overtook it .
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99  %  , having decreased almost every month since at least November 2007 , the first month for which statistics  हैं  publicly available from Net Applications .
`` Por una Cabeza '' is an  अर्जेंटाइन  tango with  म्यूज़िक  and lyrics written in 1935 by Carlos Gardel and Alfredo Le Pera  क्रमशः  .
The name is a Spanish horse-racing phrase  अर्थ  `` by a head '' , which refers to a horse winning a race by the length of one head .
The lyrics speak of a compulsive horse-track gambler who compares his  व्यसन  for horses with his attraction to  महिलाओं  .
Alfredo Le Pera was a Brazilian from São  पाउलो   ,  a much Italian-influenced area  in  Brazil , and also the birthplace of Zequinha de Abreu , composer  of  Tico-Tico no Fubá .
Le Pera and Gardel died in an airplane crash in Medellín , (  कोलंबिया  )  ,  on June 24 , 1935 .
Por una Cabeza
The tango has since been performed by numerous tango orchestras .
Tango scenes with `` Por una  cabeza  '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ) , Scent of  a  Woman ( 1992  )  , Schindler 's List ( 1993 ) ,  सच्चा   झूठ  ( 1994 ) , Titanic ( 1996 ) , Bad Santa  (  Uncut Version , 2003 ) , All  the  King 's Men (  2006  ) , Planet 51 ( 2009 ) , episode 37 of Nip/Tuck ( 2003–2010  )  ,  एपीसोड  9 of South Korean drama series Sweet Spy ( 2005–08 ) , the  शुरूआत  and ending  क्रेडिट  of the South Korean drama broadcast I 'm Sorry , I Love You ( 2004 ) , and the episode `` Down the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007  )  .
In the movie Frida ( Salma  हायेक  , 2002  )   ,  Gardel is heard singing it on a radio  .
It is also quoted in David Del Tredici 's  ``  Good News  !
Nilda is Back '' ( from the song cycle Miz Inez Sez ) .
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ) ,  the  tango is performed by the `` The  टैंगो  Project '' , who actually appear in  the  dancing scene starring  al  Pacino ( the recording used  is  available on  एक  of their  cd  albums ) .
John Williams arranged a version  of  the piece that  appears  on  the  album `` Cinema Serenade '' with the violin solo performed by Itzhak Perlman .
Perlman and Williams ( conducting ) have also performed the piece together  in   सजीव  concerts .
In 2012 a dance version was released by the group `` Da Carrera '' featuring the original vocal recording by Carlos Gardel .
The baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is one of the body 's homeostatic  mechanisms  for maintaining blood pressure .
It provides a  ऋणात्मक  feedback loop in  जिससे  an elevated blood pressure reflexively causes heart rate to decrease therefore causing blood pressure to decrease ; likewise  ,  decreased  रक्त  pressure activates the baroreflex , causing heart rate  to  increase thus causing an increase in blood pressure .
The system relies  on  specialized neurons , known as baroreceptors , in the aortic arch , carotid  साइनस  , and elsewhere to monitor changes in  रक्त  pressure  और   रिले  them to the brainstem .
Subsequent changes in  रक्त   दबाव  are mediated by  the  autonomic nervous system .
Atrial natriuretic peptide forms a parallel negative feedback  लूप  in  an  endocrinological contrast to the renin-angiotensin system .
The Loma Prieta earthquake , also known  as  the Quake of '89 and the  संसार  Series Earthquake , was a major  भूकंप  that  struck  the San Francisco Bay Area of California on October 17 , 1989 , at 5:04 pm local time .
caused  by a slip along the  सैन  Andreas Fault , the quake lasted 10–15 seconds and measured 6.9 on both the moment magnitude scale ( surface-wave magnitude 7.1 ) and on the open-ended Richter Scale .
The quake killed 63 people throughout northern California , injured  3,757  and left some 3,000–12,000  लोगों  homeless  .
The earthquake occurred during the warm-up practice for the third game of the 1989 World Series , featuring both of  the  Bay Area 's Major League Baseball teams , the  ओकलैंड  Athletics and the San Francisco Giants .
Because of game-related sports coverage ,  इस  was the first major earthquake in the United States to have its initial jolt broadcast live  on  television .
साहूकार  in the standard Staunton pattern
The  साहूकार   (  ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and  in  most circumstances the weakest  टुकड़ा  in the game of chess , historically representing infantry or , more particularly , armed peasants or pikemen .
In  शतरंज  , each player begins the game  साथ  eight pawns , one on each square of the rank immediately in front of the other pieces .
( In algebraic notation ,  the  white  प्यादे  start on a2 , b2 ,  c2  , ... , h2 , while black pawns start  on  a7 , b7 , c7 ,  ...  , h7  .   )
Individual pawns are referred to by the file on which they stand .
For example , one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn ''  or  `` Black 's b-pawn '' , or less commonly ( using descriptive notation  )  , `` White 's king 's bishop pawn ''  or  ``  ब्लैक  's queen 's knight pawn '' .
It  is  also common to refer to a rook  साहूकार  , meaning any  साहूकार  on the a- or h-file , a knight pawn ( on the b- or g-file  )  , a bishop pawn ( on the c- or f-file ) , a queen pawn ( on the d-file ) , a king pawn ( on the e-file )  ,  and a central pawn ( on either the d- or e-file ) .
The  सैन्य  forces of the world have differing approaches to the enlistment of  homosexual  ( gay and lesbian ) and bisexual individuals .
The armed  शक्तियां  of most  विकसित  countries have now removed policies excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with strict policies on sexual harassment ) .
Nations that permit gay people to serve openly in  the  military  शामिल  the 4 of the 5 members of the  un  Security Council ( United States , United Kingdom , France , and Russia )  ,  the Republic of China ( Taiwan  )  ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , Israel , South Africa , Argentina , and  सब  NATO members excluding Turkey .
हाइड्रोजन  production is the family  of  industrial methods for generating hydrogen .
Currently  the   प्रबल   प्रौद्योगिकी  for direct production is steam reforming from hydrocarbons .
अनेक  other methods are known including electrolysis  और  thermolysis .
In 2006 ,  the  United  राज्य  was estimated to have a production capacity of 11 million tonnes of  हाइड्रोजन  .
5 million tonnes of hydrogen  यहूद  consumed on-site in oil refining , and in  the  production of ammonia ( Haber process ) and methanol ( reduction of  कार्बन  monoxide  )  .
0.4 million tonnes were an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali  प्रक्रम  .
Hydrogen production is an estimated $ 100 billion industry .
A basis point ( often denoted as bp , colloquially referred to in the plural as `` bips ''  ,  also  ज्ञात  as  a  `` beep  ''   )  is  a  unit equal  to  one hundredth of a percentage point  ,  or one part per ten thousand , 1/10000 .
The same unit  is  also ( rarely ) called a permyriad , literally meaning 'for ( every ) myriad ( ten thousand ) ' , and in that context  is  written with which looks like a percent sign ( % ) with two extra zeroes at the end  (  like a  stylized  form of the four zeros in  the  denominator  ,  although it originates as a natural extension of the percent ( % )  और  permille ( ‰ ) signs ) .
A basis point is defined  as:
1 basis point = 1 permyriad =  एक  one-hundredth percent
1 bp  =  1 = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100  bp  = 100
Basis points are used as a convenient unit of measurement in contexts where  प्रतिशत  differences of less than 1 % are discussed .
The most  आम   उदाहरण  is interest rates  ,   जहाँ  differences in interest rates of less than 1 % per year are usually meaningful to talk about .
For example , a difference of 0.10 percentage points is equivalent to a change of 10 basis points ( e.g . a 4.67 % rate increases by 10 basis points  to  4.77 % )  .
Like percentage points ,  आधार  points avoid the ambiguity between relative and absolute discussions about interest rates by dealing only with the absolute  बदलें  in numeric value of a rate .
For example , if a  रपट  says there has been  a  ``  1  % increase '' from a 10 % interest rate , this could  refer  to  an  increase either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( relative , 1  %  of 10 % ) , or from 10  %  to 11 % ( absolute , 1 % plus 10 % ) .
If , however , the report says there  रै  been a `` 10 basis point increase '' from a 10 % interest rate , then we  जान  that the  ब्याज   रेट  of 10 % has increased by  0.10  % ( the absolute change ) to a 10.1 % rate .
It is common practice in the financial industry to use basis points to denote a rate  बदलें  in a financial instrument , or the difference ( spread  )  between  दो  interest rates , including the yields of fixed-income securities .
Since  निश्चित  loans and bonds may commonly be quoted in relation to some index or underlying security , they will often be  कोटेड  as a  स्प्रेड  over ( or under ) the  अनुक्रमणिका  .
For example , a loan that  bears  interest of 0.50 % per annum above the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) is said to be 50 basis  अंक  over LIBOR , which is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps '' or simply `` L+50 '' .
The term `` basis point '' has its origins in  व्यापार  the `` basis '' or the  स्प्रेड  between two interest rates .
चूंकि  the basis is usually small , these are quoted multiplied up  by  10000  ,  and hence a `` full point '' movement in the `` basis '' is a basis point .
Contrast with pips in FX forward markets .
The relationship between percentage changes and basis  अंक  can be summarized as follows  :  1 percentage point change = 100 basis points  ,  and  0.01  percentage points = 1 basis point .
So , a bond whose yield increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is said to increase  by  50 basis points ; or interest rates that have risen 1  प्रतिशत   पाइंट  are said to have increased by 100 basis points .
The  अंग्रेजों  Royal Family is the group of close relatives of the monarch of the United Kingdom .
The term is also commonly applied  to  the same group of people who are the relations of the  monarch  in her or his role as sovereign of any of the other Commonwealth realms , thus sometimes at variance with official national terms for the family .
Members of the Royal Family belong to , either by  जनम  or marriage , the House of Windsor , since 1917 , when George V changed the name of the royal house from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha .
This decision was primarily taken because Britain and her Empire were  at  war with Germany and given the British Royal Family 's  दमदार  German ancestry  ;  it was felt that its public image could be improved  by  choosing a more British house name .
The  नई  name chosen , Windsor  ,  had  बिल्कुल   no  connection other  than  as the  नाम   of  the  किला  which was and continues to be a royal residence .
Although in the United  किंगडम  there is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a  सदस्य  of the Royal Family ,  और  different lists will include different people , those carrying  the   स्टाइल   उसके  or His Majesty ( HM ) , or Her or His Royal Highness ( HRH ) are always considered members , which usually results in the application of  the  term to the monarch  ,  the consort of the  monarch  , the widowed consorts of previous monarchs , the children of the monarch and previous monarchs  ,  the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and previous monarchs , and the  spouses  and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line grandsons .
On 30 November 1917 ,  किंग  George V issued Letters Patent defining  जो  are  सदस्यों  of the Royal Family ; the text of  the  notice from the London Gazette is as follows:
In 1996 , Her Majesty The Queen modified these Letters Patent , as was evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
in  2013 Letters Patent were issued to extend a title and a style borne by members of the Royal Family to  अतिरिक्त  persons  to  be born , evidenced by this Notice from the  लंदन  Gazette:
Members and relatives of  the  British Royal Family historically represented the monarch in various places throughout the British Empire , sometimes  लिये  extended periods as viceroys , or for specific ceremonies or events .
आज  , they often perform ceremonial and social duties throughout the United Kingdom and abroad on behalf of the United Kingdom .
Aside from  the   monarch  ,  उनके   तभी  constitutional role in the affairs of government is to serve  ,  if eligible and when appointed by letters patent  ,  as a Counsellor of State ,  दो  or more  of   जिसको  exercise the authority  of  the Crown  (  within stipulated limits ) in the indisposal or absence from the British realm of the monarch .
in  the other  realms  of the Commonwealth royalty do not serve as Counsellors of State .
however   in  each such realm the monarch 's family members may act on behalf of , are funded by  ,  and represent the sovereign of that particular  राज्य   ,  and  नहीं   the  United Kingdom .
The Queen , her consort , her children and grandchildren , as well as all former sovereigns ' children and grandchildren hold places in the first sections of  the  official orders of precedence in England and Wales , Scotland  ,  and Northern Ireland .
Wives of  the  said  आनंद  their husbands ' precedence , and husbands of princesses are unofficially but habitually placed with their wives  as  well  .
However , the Queen changed the private order of precedence in the Royal Family in favour of Princesses Anne and  एलेक्जेंड्रा  , who henceforth take  निजी  precedence over the Duchess  of  Cornwall , who is otherwise the  फ्रेम  's highest ranking woman after  the  Queen herself  .
वो  did not alter the relative precedence of  अन्य  born-princesses , such as the daughters of  उसके  younger sons .
Haiti ( ;  haitian  Creole Ayiti ) , officially the Republic of Haiti ( ; ) , is a Caribbean country .
It occupies the  पश्चिमी  , smaller portion of the island of Hispaniola , in the Greater Antillean archipelago , which  it  shares with the Dominican Republic .
Ayiti ( land of high mountains ) was the indigenous Taíno  or  Amerindian name for the island  .
The country 's highest point is Pic la Selle , at .
The total area of Haiti is and its capital is  port-au-prince  .
haitian  Creole  और  French are the official languages .
Haiti 's regional , historical , and ethno-linguistic position  is  unique for  अनेक   कारण  .
It  थी   the  first independent nation of Latin America and the Caribbean , the first black -led republic in the  संसार  , and the second republic in the Americas when it gained independence in 1804 as part of  a  successful slave revolution lasting  nearly   a  decade .
In 2012 , Haiti announced  इसके  intention to seek associate membership status in the African Union  .
Haiti is the most populous of the predominantly Francophone independent nations in the Americas  .
It is one of only two independent nations in the Americas ( along with Canada ) to designate French as an official language ; the other French-speaking areas  हैं   सब  overseas départements  ,  or collectivités  ,  of France .
Haiti is the most populous full member-state of  the  Caribbean Community  (  CARICOM ) .
It  is  the poorest country in the Americas  as  measured by the Human Development  अनुक्रमणिका  .
Political  हिंसा  has occurred regularly throughout its history , leading to government instability .
Most recently , in February 2004  ,  a  तख्तापलट  d'état originating in the north of the  देश   मजबूर   the  resignation and exile of President Jean-Bertrand  aristide  .
A provisional government took  कंट्रोल  with security provided by the United Nations  स्थिरीकरण   मिशन  in Haiti ( MINUSTAH  )  .
Michel  martelly  , the current president , was elected in the Haitian general election , 2011 .
The island has had a history of destructive  भूकंप  .
A 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck Haiti on 12 January 2010 and  तबाह  Port-au-Prince .
The highest reliable  मौत  count was estimated  at  220,000 .
haitian  government estimates  यहूद   उच्चतर  .
The Presidential palace , Parliament  और  many other important structures were destroyed , along with  अनगिनत  homes and  व्यवसायों  , leaving hundreds of  हज़ारों  of people homeless .
The country has  yet  to  रिकवर  from the 2010 earthquake ( and subsequent incidents ) due  to  both the severity  of  the damage Haiti endured in 2010 ,  as  well as a government that was ineffective  खूब  before the earthquake .
United States  सहायता   संगठन  have  दान  $ 2 billion .
Combined with other international donations , these funds are intended to contribute to the rebuilding  of   the  country .
The Bloody Beetroots is  the  pseudonym  of  Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo , the Italian electro house and dance-punk music producer , DJ  और   फ़ोटोग्राफ़र  .
The Bloody Beetroots is  well-known  for the black  venom  mask he wears during performances .
In fact , the only identifying public feature of Rifo is the year `` 1977 '' tattooed across his chest , which  is  both the year that  the  producer and punk-rock was born .
`` The Bloody Beetroots  dj  set '' contains Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo and Tommy Tea .
A Motorola Advisor alphanumeric pager used in Brazil in the 1990s ,  संचालित  by Teletrim
a  pager is  a  wireless telecommunications  यंत्र  that receives  और  displays numeric or text messages ,  or  receives and announces voice messages .
One-way pagers can  तभी  receive messages , while response pagers and  two-way   pagers  can also acknowledge  ,  reply to , and originate  संदेश  using an internal transmitter .
Pagers operate as part of a paging system which includes  एक  or more fixed transmitters ( or in the case of response pagers and two-way  pagers  , one or more base  स्टेशन  ) ,  as  well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users .
These systems  can  range from a restaurant system with a single low-power transmitter , to a nationwide system with thousands of high-power base  स्टेशन  .
One of the first practical paging services was launched in  1950  for physicians in the New York City area .
Physicians paid US $ 12 per month for the service and carried a ( 6 oz ) pager that would receive  फोन  messages within  (  25  mi  )  of  a single transmitter tower .
The system was manufactured by  the  Reevesound Company and operated by Telanswerphone  .
In 1960  ,  John Francis Mitchell combined elements of Motorola 's Walkie Talkie  और  automobile radio technologies to create the first transistorized pager  ,  and from this point , paging technology continued to advance , and pager adoption continued to expand  ,  until the early 1990s .
However , by the mid-1990s , as cellular technologies became cheaper and more  widely  available , advanced services began to  displace  paging as a commercial product .
Today , pagers exist largely as niche products  ,  finding preferential use in  अनुप्रयोग   ऐसे  as hospitals , public safety , and retail locations where their simplicity  ,   ऊँची  reliability , and low cost represent significant advantages .
Reevesville  is  a town in Dorchester County ,  दक्षिण  Carolina , United States .
The population was 196 at the 2010 census .
As defined by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget , and used by the U.S. Census Bureau for statistical purposes only , Reevesville is included  भीतर  the Charleston-North Charleston-Summerville metropolitan area .
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderón ; July 6 , 1907 – July 13 , 1954 ) was a Mexican  चित्रकार  , born in Coyoacán , who is  बेहतरीन  known for her self-portraits .
Kahlo 's life began and ended in Mexico City , in her home  ज्ञात  as the Blue  हाउस  .
She gave her birth date as July 7 , 1910 , but her birth certificate shows  जुलाई  6 , 1907 .
Kahlo had allegedly wanted  the  year of her birth to coincide with the year  of  the beginning of the Mexican revolution so that her life would  शुरू  with  the  birth of modern Mexico .
Her work has been celebrated in Mexico  as  emblematic of  नेशनल  and indigenous tradition , and by feminists for its uncompromising depiction of the female experience  और  form .
Mexican culture  और  Amerindian cultural tradition are important  in  her work , which  रै  been sometimes characterized as Naïve art  or  folk art .
Her work has also been described as `` surrealist '' , and in 1938 André  ब्रेटन  , principal initiator of the surrealist movement , described Kahlo 's art as  a   ``  ribbon around a bomb '' .
Kahlo had a volatile marriage with the famous Mexican artist Diego  रिवेरा  .
She suffered lifelong health problems .
Many  of  her health problems were the result of a  ट्रैफ़िक  accident  वो  survived as a teenager .
Recovering  इससे  her injuries isolated her from other people and this isolation influenced her works  ,  many of which are self-portraits of one sort or another  .
Kahlo  सुझाया  , `` I  पेंट  myself because I am so often alone and because  i  am the subject I know  बेहतरीन  . ''
She also stated ,  ``  I was born a bitch .
I was born a painter . ''
300px
theresienwiese  on the day before  oktoberfest  2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival  celebrating  beer held annually in Munich , Bavaria , Germany , running from late September to the first weekend in October .
It is one  of  the most famous  कार्यक्रम  in Germany and is the world 's largest fair , with more than 6 million people from around the world attending  the  event every year .
To the  स्थानीय  , it is not called Oktoberfest  ,  but  ``   die  Wiesn '' , after the colloquial name of  the  fairgrounds themselves .
The Oktoberfest is an important part of Bavarian culture  ,  having been held since 1810 .
Other cities across the world also hold Oktoberfest celebrations , modeled  बाद  the original Munich event .
The Munich Oktoberfest originally took  प्लेस  during the sixteen  दिनों   up  to  ,  and including , the first Sunday in October .
In 1994 , the  अनुसूची  was modified in response to German reunification so that if the first Sunday in October falls on the 1st or 2nd ,  तब  the festival would go  on  until October 3 ( German Unity Day ) .
Thus , the  पर्व  is now 17 days  जब  the first Sunday is  अक्तूबर  2 and 18 days when it  is  October 1 .
In 2010 , the festival lasted until the first Monday in October  ,  to mark the anniversary of the event .
The festival is held  in  an  क्षेत्रफल  named  the  Theresienwiese (  फ़ील्ड  , or meadow , of  therese  ) , often called Wiesn for short , located near Munich 's center .
Large quantities of Oktoberfest Beer  हैं  consumed , with almost 7 million liters served during the 16 day  पर्व  in 2007 .
Visitors may  भी  enjoy a wide variety of traditional  खाना  such as Hendl ( chicken ) , Schweinebraten ( roast pork  )  , Schweinshaxe ( grilled ham hock  )  , Steckerlfisch ( grilled fish on a  स्टिक  ) , Würstl ( sausages ) along with Brezeln ( Pretzel ) , Knödel (  आलू   or  bread dumplings ) , Käsespätzle ( cheese noodles ) , Reiberdatschi ( potato pancakes  )  , Sauerkraut or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as  obatzda  ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white sausage  )  .
A platter  साथ  cheese and garnishes
Wheels  of  Gouda
Cheese is a generic term  लिये  a diverse group of milk-based food products .
Cheese is  उत्पादित  in wide-ranging flavors  ,  textures , and forms .
चीज  consists of proteins and fat from milk , usually the milk of cows , buffalo , goats , or  शीप  .
It is produced by coagulation of the milk protein casein .
Typically , the milk  is  acidified and  जोड  of the enzyme rennet causes coagulation .
The solids are  अलग  and  दबाया  into final  रूप  .
Some cheeses have molds on the rind  or  throughout .
Most cheeses melt at cooking temperature .
Hundreds of types of cheese from various countries are produced .
Their styles , textures  और  flavors depend on the origin of the milk ( including the animal 's  आहार  ) , whether they have  महरूम  pasteurized , the butterfat content , the bacteria  और  mold , the processing , and aging  .
Herbs , spices , or wood smoke may be used as flavoring agents  .
The yellow to red color of many cheeses , such as Red Leicester , is normally formed  इससे  adding annatto .
For a few cheeses , the milk is curdled by adding acids such as vinegar or lemon juice .
Most cheeses  हैं  acidified to a lesser degree by bacteria , which turn milk sugars into  लैक्टिक  acid , then the addition of rennet completes the curdling .
Vegetarian alternatives to rennet are available ;  सबसे  are produced by fermentation of the fungus Mucor miehei , but  अन्य  have been extracted from various  प्रजाति  of the  cynara  thistle family .
Cheese is  valued  for its portability , long life , and high content of fat , protein , calcium , and phosphorus .
Cheese is more compact  और  has a longer shelf  जीवन  than milk , although how long a cheese will keep may depend on the  प्रकार   of  cheese ; labels on packets  of  cheese often claim  कि  a cheese should be consumed within three to five days of opening .
Generally speaking , hard cheeses  पिछला  longer than soft cheeses , such as Brie or goat  's  milk cheese .
Cheesemakers near  a  dairy region may benefit  इससे  fresher , lower-priced milk , and lower shipping costs .
The long storage life of some cheese  ,  especially if it is encased in a protective  rind  , allows selling when markets are favorable .
अतिरिक्त   संघटक  may be added to some cheeses , such as black peppers , garlic , chives or cranberries .
A specialist seller of cheese is sometimes known as a cheesemonger .
To  become  an expert in this field ,  जैसे  wine or cooking , requires some formal education and years of tasting and hands-on experience .
This position is typically responsible for all aspects of the cheese inventory ; selecting the cheese menu , purchasing , receiving , storage , and ripening  .
Legal citation signals are  a  set of brief abbreviated phrases or words  प्रयुक्त  to clarify the authority or significance of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition .
Signals  सहायता  a reader quickly discern meaning or usefulness of a particular reference  जब  the reference  itself  does not provide adequate information .
Most citation signals are placed in front of the citation to which they apply .
For  उदाहरण  ,  in  the paragraph When writing a legal argument , it is important  to  refer to primary sources .
To assist readers in locating these sources , it is desirable to use a standardized citation format .
See generally Harvard Law Review Association ,  the  Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation (  18th  ed  .  2005 ) .
Note , however , that some  न्यायालयों  may require any legal papers that are submitted to them to conform to  a  different citation format .
the signal  is  the phrase `` see generally , '' which indicates that the citation `` The Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed . 2005 )  ''  provides general background information on the topic .
Neil Alden Armstrong ( August 5 , 1930 – August 25  ,  2012 ) was an American astronaut and the first person to walk on the Moon .
He  थी  also an aerospace engineer , naval  एविएटर  , test pilot , and university professor .
पहले  becoming  an  astronaut , Armstrong was an officer in the U.S. Navy and served in the Korean War .
After the war ,  he  earned his bachelor 's degree at Purdue University and served as  a  test pilot at the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics High-Speed Flight Station , now known as the  ड्राइडेन  Flight Research  बीच  , where  he  logged over 900  फ़्लाइट  .
He later completed graduate studies at the University of Southern California  .
A participant in the U.S. Air Force 's Man in Space Soonest and X-20 Dyna-Soar  इंसान  spaceflight programs , Armstrong joined  the  NASA Astronaut Corps in 1962 .
He made his first space flight , as command  पायलट  of Gemini 8 , in 1966 , becoming NASA 's first civilian astronaut to fly  in  space  .
On this mission , he performed the first docking of two spacecraft , with  पायलट  David Scott .
Armstrong 's second and last spaceflight was as mission commander of the Apollo 11  चंद्रमा  landing , in July 1969 .
On this mission , Armstrong  और  Buzz Aldrin descended to the lunar surface  और  spent two and a half hours exploring , while Michael Collins remained in lunar orbit in  the  Command Module .
Along with Collins and Aldrin , Armstrong was awarded the Presidential Medal  of  Freedom by President Richard Nixon ; in 1978 , President Jimmy Carter presented Armstrong  the  Congressional Space Medal of Honor in 1978 ; he  और  his former crewmates received the  congressional  Gold Medal in  2009  .
Armstrong died in Cincinnati , Ohio  ,  on  अगस्त  25 , 2012 ,  at  the age of  82  , after complications from coronary  धमनी  bypass surgery .
Secretariat ( March 30 , 1970 – October 4 , 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S . Triple Crown champion in 25 years  .
He set race records in  सब  three events in the Series  —  the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ) , the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ) , and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records  कि  still stand today .
He is considered  to  be one of the greatest Thoroughbreds  of  all time .
in  1999 ,  ईएसपीएन  ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete  of  the 20th century , the highest ranking racehorse on the  सूची   url_http  .
He ranked second behind  man  o ' War in The Blood-Horse  's  List of  the  Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century .
Secretariat was sired by Bold Ruler out of Somethingroyal , by Princequillo .
He was foaled at The  मर्ग  in Caroline County , Virginia .
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War , Secretariat was  a   विशाल  chestnut colt and was given the same nickname , `` Big Red . ''
सचिवालय  's grandsire , Nasrullah , is also  the  great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew .
Owned by  पैनी  Chenery ,  he  was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey Ron  turcotte  , along with  प्रशिक्षु   jockey  Paul Feliciano ( first two races ) , and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ) .
He raced in  chenery  's Meadow  stable  's blue and white checkered colors and his groom was  एडी  Sweat .
Secretariat stood approximately tall  ,  and weighed , with a 75-inch girth , in his racing prime .
Madrid ( , ) is the capital and largest city of Spain .
The population of the city is  roughly  3.3 million and the entire population of the Madrid metropolitan area is calculated to be  around  6.5 million  .
it  is the third-largest city in the European Union , after London and Berlin , and its  महानगर  area is the third-largest  in   the  European Union after London and Paris .
The  नगर  spans a total  of  .
The city is located on the Manzanares river in the centre of both the country  और  the Community of Madrid ( which comprises the  नगर  of Madrid , its conurbation and extended suburbs and  गांवों  ) ; this community is bordered by the autonomous communities of  castile  and  león  and Castile-La Mancha .
As the capital city of  स्पेन   ,  seat of government , and residence of the Spanish monarch , Madrid is also the political , economic and cultural  केन्द्र  of Spain .
The current mayor  is  Ana Botella from the People 's Party ( PP ) .
The Madrid urban agglomeration has the third-largest GDP in the European Union and its influences in politics , education , entertainment , environment , media ,  फ़ैशन  , science , culture , and the arts all contribute to its status as one of the world 's major global cities .
Due to its  आर्थिक  output , high standard of living , and market size , Madrid is considered the major financial centre of Southern Europe and the Iberian Peninsula ; it hosts the head  कार्यालयों  of the vast majority of the major Spanish companies ,  ऐसे  as Telefónica , Iberia  or  Repsol  .
Madrid is the most  touristic  city of  स्पेन  , the  fourth-most  touristic of the continent , and the seventh most visited city in the world according to Forbes .
Is the 10th most livable city  in  the world according to Monocle magazine , in its  2010  index  .
Madrid also ranks among the 12 greenest  यूरोपीय  cities in 2010. < ref name= '' http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > Madrid is currently a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics .
Madrid houses the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization ( WTO ) ,  belonging  to the United Nations Organization ( UN  )   ,  the  segib  , the  संगठन  of Ibero-American States ( OEI ) , and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ) .
It also hosts major international institutions regulators of Spanish : the Standing Committee of the Association of Spanish Language Academies , headquarters of the  royal  Spanish Academy (  rae  ) , the Cervantes Institute and the Foundation of Urgent Spanish ( Fundéu ) .
मैड्रिड  organizes fairs as FITUR , ARCO , SIMO TCI and the Cibeles Madrid Fashion  सप्ताह  .
जबकि  Madrid possesses a modern  अवसंरचना  , it has preserved the look and feel of  अनेक  of its historic neighbourhoods and streets .
Its landmarks include the Royal Palace of Madrid ; the  teatro  Real ( Royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera  हाउस   ;  the Buen Retiro Park , founded in 1631 ; the  19th-century  National Library building ( founded in  1712  ) containing some of Spain 's  ऐतिहासिक  archives ; a large number  of  National museums , and the Golden Triangle of Art , located along the Paseo del Prado and comprising three art museums  :  Prado Museum ,  the  Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía , a museum  of  modern art , and the  thyssen-bornemisza  Museum , which completes the shortcomings of the other  दो  museums .
Cibeles Palace  और  Fountain have become the monument symbol of the city .
The path of the Via Appia and  of  the Via Appia Traiana .
Remains of the Appian Way in Rome , near Quarto Miglio
निकट  Rome .
The Appian Way (  लैटिन  and Italian : Via Appia ) was one of  the  earliest  और  strategically most important Roman roads of the ancient republic .
It connected Rome  to  Brindisi , Apulia ,  in   southeast  Italy .
Its importance is  indicated  by its  आम  name  ,  recorded by Statius :
appia  teritur  रेजिना  longarum viarum
`` the Appian way is the queen of the long roads ''
The road  is   नामित  after Appius Claudius Caecus , the Roman censor who began and completed the first section  as  a military road to the south in 312 BC during the Samnite Wars .
The Draupner wave , a single giant wave measured on New Year 's Day 1995 , finally confirmed  the  existence of  freak   लहरें  , which had previously been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( also known as  freak  waves , monster waves , killer waves , extreme waves , and abnormal waves ) are relatively large and spontaneous ocean surface waves that occur far  आउट  at sea , and are a threat even to large ships and ocean liners .
In oceanography , they are more precisely  पारिभाषित  as waves whose height is more than twice the significant wave height (  swh  )  ,  which is itself defined as the mean of the  largest  third of waves  in  a wave record .
Therefore rogue waves  हैं  not necessarily the biggest waves found at sea  ;  they are , rather , surprisingly large waves for a given sea  राज्य  .
Rogue waves seem  नहीं  to have a single distinct cause , but occur where  शारीरिक  factors such as  ऊँची  winds and strong currents cause waves to merge to create a single exceptionally large wave .
electress  Sophia of Hanover ( 1630–1714 )
The line of succession to the British throne is the ordered sequence of all those people eligible to succeed  to  the throne of the United Kingdom and the other 15  राष्ट्रमंडल  realms .
the  Act of Settlement 1701 bestowed succession on the Electress Sophia of Hanover and  उसके  descendants while excluding Roman Catholics .
The British government does not publish an official list of all those in line to succeed , but the work of genealogical authors  और  amateur researchers suggests that there are several thousand people potentially in line .
At a summit in Perth , Western Australia in 2011 , the heads of government  of  all 16 Commonwealth  realms  agreed to take steps to adopt absolute primogeniture  ,  end the exclusion of people married  to  Roman Catholics , and  मेक  other changes in the succession  नियम  .
The line of succession is also used to select the Counsellors of State  (  and a regent if the need arises ) under the provisions of the Regency Act 1937 .
For earlier versions of the line of succession , see History of the British line of succession .
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17 , 1920July 23 , 1966 ) was an American film and stage actor The New York Times’ obituary noted  उसके  portrayal of `` moody , sensitive young men ''  .
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; examples include the social climber  in  George Stevens 's A  प्लेस  in the  सूर्य  , the anguished Catholic priest in Hitchcock  's  I Confess , the doomed regular soldier Robert E. Lee Prewitt in Fred Zinnemann 's From Here to Eternity , and the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites  in  Edward  dmytryk  's The Young Lions .
Later , after a disfiguring car crash in 1956 , and alcohol and prescription drug abuse , he  became  erratic .
nevertheless  important roles were still his , including `` the  लापरवाह   ,  alcoholic , mother-fixated rodeo performer '' in John Huston 's The Misfits , the title role in Huston 's , and the concentration camp victim  in  Stanley Kramer 's Judgment at  nuremberg  . ''
Clift received four Academy Award  nominations  during his career , three  लिये  Best Actor and one  लिये  Best Supporting Actor .
The War on Terror ( also known as the Global War  on  Terrorism ) is a term commonly applied to an international military campaign which started as a result of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States .
This resulted in an international military campaign to eliminate al-Qaeda and other militant organizations .
The United Kingdom and many other NATO and  non-nato  nations participate  in  the  विरोध  .
The phrase 'War on Terror '  थी  first used by US President George W. Bush  on  20 September  2001  .
The Bush  प्रशासन  and the Western media  have  since used the term  to  signify a global military  ,  political , lawful , and  conceptual  struggle—targeting both  संगठन  designated as terrorist and regimes  अभियुक्त  of supporting  उन्हें  .
It was typically used with a particular focus on militant Islamists , al-Qaeda , and other jihadi groups .
Although the term is not officially used by the  प्रशासन  of US  अध्यक्ष  Barack Obama ( which instead uses the term Overseas Contingency Operation ) , it is  स्टिल   commonly  used by  राजनेता  , in the media and by some aspects of government  officially  , such as  the  United States ' Global  युद्ध  on Terrorism Service Medal .
German battleship Schleswig-Holstein , Westerplatte , September 1 ,  1939
Destroyer USS Shaw exploding after her forward  पत्रिका   थी   detonated  during the Attack  on  Pearl Harbor
The  प्रमुख   कल्याणकारी  of World War II were nationalistic issues , unresolved issues , and resentments resulting from World War I and the interwar period in Europe ,  in  addition to the effects of the Great Depression in  the  1930s .
The culmination of events that led to the outbreak  of  war  हैं   generally  understood  to  be the 1939 invasion of  कैंडल  by Germany and Soviet Russia and the 1937 invasion of the Republic of China by the Empire of Japan .
These military aggressions were the result of  निर्णय  made by the authoritarian ruling Nazi elite in Germany and by  the   नेतृत्व  of the Kwantung  फौज  in  जापानी  .
World War II started after these aggressive actions were met with  an  official declaration of war and/or armed resistance .
The following is a list of gods and other divine and semi-divine figures from  यूनानी  mythology .
The list does not include creatures ;  लिये  these , see List of Greek mythological creatures .
The Mitsubishi Galant is an automobile manufactured by  मित्सुबिशी  Motors between 1969 and 2012  .
The name was derived  इससे   the  French word galant , meaning  ``  chivalrous '' .
There have been nine distinct generations , and cumulative sales now exceed five million .
it  began as a  कॉम्पैक्ट   सेडान  , but over the course  of  its life has evolved into a larger mid-size car .
Initial production was  तभी  based in Japan , but since 1994  the  American  मार्केट  has been served by vehicles assembled at the former Diamond-Star Motors  (  DSM ) facility in Normal ,  इलिनोइस  .
Blood pressure  (  BP ) ,  sometimes  referred to as arterial blood pressure , is the pressure exerted by circulating blood upon the walls of blood vessels ,  और  is  एक  of the principal vital signs .
When used without further specification , `` blood pressure '' usually refers to the arterial pressure of the systemic circulation .
During each heartbeat , blood pressure varies between a maximum ( systolic )  और  a  न्यूनतम   (  diastolic )  दबाव  .
The blood pressure  in  the  परिसंचरण  is principally due to  the  pumping action of the heart .
Differences in mean blood pressure are responsible for blood flow from one location to another in the  परिसंचरण  .
The rate of mean blood flow depends  on  the resistance to flow presented by the blood vessels  .
Mean blood pressure decreases as the circulating blood moves away from the heart through arteries and  capillaries  due to viscous  नुकसान  of energy .
Mean blood pressure drops over the whole circulation , although most of the fall occurs along the small arteries and arterioles .
Gravity affects  रक्त  pressure via hydrostatic  शक्तियां  ( e.g. , during standing ) and valves in veins , breathing , and pumping from contraction  of  skeletal  मांसपेशियां  also influence blood pressure in veins .
Blood pressure without further specification usually refers to the systemic  arterial  pressure measured at a person 's upper  भुजा  and is a measure  of  the pressure in the brachial artery , the major artery in the upper arm .
A person’s blood pressure is usually expressed in terms of the  systolic  pressure over  diastolic  pressure and is measured in millimetres of mercury ( mmHg  )  , for  उदाहरण  120/80  .
A veto – Latin for `` I forbid '' – is the  शक्ति  (  प्रयुक्त  by an officer of the state , for example ) to unilaterally  रोकें  an official action ,  विशेषकर  the enactment  of  legislation  .
A veto  can  be absolute , as for instance in the United Nations Security Council , whose  स्थाई  members ( China , France , Russia ,  संयुक्त   किंगडम  , United States of America )  can   ब्लाक  any resolution .
Or it can be limited , as in the legislative process of the United States , where a two-thirds vote in both the House and Senate may override a Presidential veto of legislation .
A veto only gives power to stop changes , not  to  adopt them ( except  लिये  the rare `` amendatory veto '' ) .
Thus a veto allows its holder to protect the status quo  .
The concept of a veto body originated with the Roman consuls and tribunes .
Either of the two consuls holding office in a given year could block a military or civil decision by the other  ;  any tribune had the power to unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate .
Sulfur dioxide ( also sulphur dioxide ) is the chemical compound with  the  formula .
It  is  a toxic gas with a pungent , irritating smell , that is released by volcanoes and in various industrial  प्रक्रियाओं  .
Since coal and petroleum often contain sulfur compounds ,  उनके  combustion generates  गंधक  dioxide unless the  गंधक  compounds  हैं  removed before burning the fuel .
Further oxidation of SO2 , usually in the presence of a catalyst such as NO2 , forms  h2so4  ,  और  thus acid rain .
गंधक  dioxide emissions are also a  precursor   to   अभिकण  in the atmosphere .
Both of  ये  impacts are cause for concern over the environmental impact of these fuels .
Myasthenia gravis  (   इससे  Greek μύς `` muscle '' , `` weakness '' , and `` serious '' ; abbreviated MG  )   is  an autoimmune neuromuscular  बीमारी  leading to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability .
It is an autoimmune  विकार  , in which weakness is caused by circulating antibodies that block acetylcholine receptors  at  the postsynaptic neuromuscular junction ,  inhibiting  the excitatory effects of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions  .
Myasthenia is treated  medically  with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or immunosuppressants , and , in selected cases ,  thymectomy   .
The disease incidence is 3–30 cases per million per year and rising as a result of increased awareness .
MG must be distinguished  इससे  congenital myasthenic syndromes that can present similar  लक्षण  but offer no response to immunosuppressive treatments .
Reflective twisted nematic liquid crystal display  .
Polarizing filter film with a vertical axis to polarize light as it enters .
Glass substrate with ITO electrodes .
The shapes of these electrodes will determine the shapes that  होगा  appear when the LCD is turned ON .
लंबवत  ridges etched on the surface are smooth .
Twisted nematic liquid crystal .
कांच  substrate with common electrode film (  ito  ) with horizontal  ridges  to line up with the horizontal filter .
Polarizing filter film with a horizontal axis  to  block/pass light .
Reflective surface to send light back to viewer .
( In a backlit LCD  ,  this layer is replaced with a light source . )
A liquid-crystal display ( LCD ) is a flat panel display , electronic visual display , or video display that uses the light  modulating  properties of liquid crystals .
द्रव   crystals  do not emit light  सीधे  .
LCDs are available to display arbitrary images (  as  in a general-purpose  कंप्यूटर  display ) or fixed images which can be displayed or hidden , such as preset words ,  अंक   ,  and 7-segment displays  as  in a digital clock .
They use  the  same basic technology , except  कि  arbitrary images are made up of a large number of small pixels , while other displays have  larger  elements .
LCDs are used in a wide range of applications  सहित  computer monitors , televisions , instrument panels  ,   वायुयान  cockpit displays , and signage .
They are common in consumer devices such as video players , gaming devices ,  घड़ियाँ  , watches ,  calculators  , and telephones , and have replaced  कैथोड  ray tube ( CRT )  प्रदर्शक  in  सबसे  applications .
They are available in a wider range of screen  आकार  than CRT and plasma displays , and since they do not use phosphors , they do  नहीं  suffer image burn-in .
LCDs are , however , susceptible to image persistence .
The LCD screen is more energy efficient and can be disposed of more safely than a CRT .
Its  कम  electrical power consumption enables  it  to be used in battery -powered electronic equipment .
It is an  electronically   modulated  optical device made up of any number of segments filled with liquid crystals and arrayed in front of a  लाइट  source ( backlight ) or  reflector  to  उपज  images in color or monochrome .
Liquid crystals were first discovered in 1888 .
By 2008 , worldwide sales of televisions  साथ  LCD screens exceeded  सालाना  sales of CRT units ; the CRT  became  obsolete for most purposes .
The Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa is  a  luxury hotel , casino , and spa in Atlantic City  ,  New Jersey , United States .
It is owned by  मरीना  District Development , a joint  venture  between Boyd  गेमिंग  and a divesture trust established by MGM Resorts International .
The $ 1.1 billion casino hotel features 2,002 rooms and is the largest hotel in New Jersey .
The Borgata opened in July 2003 as a  लास  Vegas-style  megaresort  and is the top-grossing casino in Atlantic  नगर   .
A bottle of high potency B-complex vitamin supplement pills  .
A vitamin ( or ) is  an  organic compound required by an organism as a vital nutrient in limited amounts .
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is called a vitamin when  it  can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism  ,  and must be obtained from the diet .
Thus , the term is conditional both on the circumstances and on the particular organism .
For example , ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) is a vitamin for humans , but  नहीं  for most other animals  ,   और  biotin and  विटामिन  D are required in the human diet  तभी  in certain  हालातों  .
By convention , the term vitamin includes neither  अन्य   अनिवार्य  nutrients  ,  such as dietary minerals , essential fatty acids ,  or  essential amino acids ( which are needed  in  larger amounts than vitamins ) nor the large number of  अन्य  nutrients that promote health but are otherwise required  कम  often .
तेरह  vitamins  हैं  universally recognized at  उपस्थित  .
Vitamins are classified  by  their biological and chemical activity ,  नहीं  their structure .
Thus , each `` vitamin '' refers to a number of  vitamer  compounds that all show the biological  कार्यकलाप  associated  साथ  a particular vitamin .
Such a set of chemicals is grouped under an alphabetized vitamin `` generic descriptor '' title  ,  such as `` vitamin A  ``   ,  which  शामिल  the compounds retinal , retinol , and four  ज्ञात  carotenoids .
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the active form of  the  vitamin in the body , and are sometimes inter-convertible to one another , as well .
विटामिन  have diverse biochemical functions .
Some have hormone-like functions as regulators of mineral metabolism  (   ऐसे  as vitamin D ) , or regulators of cell  और  tissue growth and  differentiation  ( such as some forms of vitamin  a  ) .
Others function as antioxidants  (  e.g. , vitamin E  और  sometimes vitamin C ) .
The largest number of  विटामिन   (  such as B complex vitamins ) function as precursors for enzyme cofactors , that help enzymes in their work as catalysts  in   चयापचय  .
in  this role , vitamins may be tightly bound to enzymes as part of prosthetic groups  :  For example , biotin is part of enzymes  शामिल  in making fatty  acids  .
Vitamins may also be  कम  tightly bound  to  enzyme catalysts as coenzymes , detachable molecules  कि  function to carry chemical groups or electrons between molecules .
For example , folic acid may carry methyl , formyl  ,  and methylene groups in the cell .
Although these roles  in  assisting enzyme-substrate reactions  हैं  vitamins ' best-known function  ,  the other vitamin functions are equally important  .
Until the  mid-1930s  , when  the   पहला  commercial yeast-extract vitamin B complex  और  semi-synthetic vitamin  c  supplement tablets  यहूद  sold , vitamins were obtained solely through food  सेवन  , and changes in diet ( which , for example , could occur during a particular growing  ऋतु  ) usually greatly altered the types and  amounts  of vitamins ingested .
However , vitamins have been produced  as  commodity chemicals and made widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic and synthetic-source multivitamin dietary and food supplements and additives , since the middle  of  the 20th century .
World Muslim population by percentage ( Pew Research Center ,  2009  )
World Muslim population in millions
Islam  is  the world  's  second largest religion  बाद  Christianity  .
According to a 2010 study ,  islam  has 1.62 billion adherents ,  बनाना  up over  23   %  of the world population .
Islam  is  the predominant religion in the Middle East  ,  in Sahel , in the Horn of  अफ़्रीकी  and northern Africa , and in some parts of  एशिया   .
Large communities of  मुसलमान  are also found in China , the Balkans ,  और  Russia .
Other parts of the world host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in Western Europe , for instance ,  islam  is  the  second largest religion after Christianity , where it  represents  6 % of the total population .
According to the Pew Research Center in 2010 there were 49 Muslim-majority countries .
Around  62  % of the world  's  Muslims live in South and Southeast Asia ,  साथ  over 1 billion adherents  .
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia , home to 12.7 % of the world 's Muslims , followed by Pakistan ( 11.0 % ) , India ( 10.9 % ) , and Bangladesh ( 9.2  %  )  .
About 20 % of Muslims live in Arab countries .
In the Middle East  ,  the non-Arab countries of Turkey and Iran are the largest Muslim-majority  देशों  ; in Africa , Egypt and Nigeria have the most populous Muslim communities .
A study conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2010 and released January 2011 found that there are 1.62 billion Muslims around the world .
The study found more Muslims in the  संयुक्त  Kingdom than  in   लेबनान  and more in China than in Syria .
Rhode  द्वीप  (  or  ) , officially the  राज्य  of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , is a  राज्य   in  the New England region of the United States .
Rhode Island is the smallest in area , the  आठवीं  least populous , but the second most densely populated of the 50  us  states behind New Jersey  .
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the west and  मैसाचुसेट्स   to  the north and east , and it shares a water  boundary  with New York 's Long Island  to  the southwest .
Rhode Island was the first of the 13  असली  colonies  to  declare  स्वतंत्रता  from British rule  ,  declaring itself independent on  may   4  , 1776 , two months before any other colony .
The State was also the last of the thirteen original colonies to ratify the United States Constitution .
rhode  Island  's  official  उपनाम  is `` The Ocean  राज्य  '' , a  सन्दर्भ  to the State 's  भूगोल  , since Rhode Island has several large bays and inlets that amount to about 14 % of its total area .
Its land area is  ,  but its  कुल  area is significantly larger .
Dubai ( ;  '  , ) is a city in the United Arab Emirates , located within the emirate of the same  नाम  .
The emirate of Dubai is located on the southeast coast of  the  Persian Gulf on the Arabian Peninsula and is one of  the  seven  अमीरात  that make up the country .
It has the largest population  in   the  UAE ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest land territory by area  (  4,114 km2 ) after Abu Dhabi .
Dubai and Abu Dhabi , the national capital , are the only two emirates  to  have veto power over critical matters  of  national importance in the country 's legislature .
The city of Dubai is located on the emirate 's northern coastline  और  heads up the Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  .
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived as a country or city-state and , in some cases , the UAE as a  पूरे   रै  been described  as   'dubai  ' .
the  earliest  जिक्र  of Dubai is in 1095 AD , and the earliest recorded settlement in  the  region dates from 1799 .
The Sheikhdom of Dubai was formally  स्थापित  in 1833 by Sheikh Maktoum bin Butti Al-Maktoum when he  persuaded  around 800 members of his tribe of the Bani  yas  , living in what was then the Second Saudi State and now part of Saudi Arabia , to follow  उसे  to the Dubai Creek by  the  Abu  falasa  clan of the Bani Yas  .
It remained under the tribe 's  कंट्रोल  when the United Kingdom assumed protection of the Sheikhdom in 1892 and  joined  the nascent United Arab Emirates upon independence in 1971 as the country 's second emirate  .
Its strategic geographic  स्थान  made  the  town an important trading hub and by the beginning of the  20th  century , Dubai  थी  already an important regional  बंदरगाहों  .
Today , Dubai has emerged  as  a cosmopolitan  metropolis  that has grown steadily to become a  वैश्विक  city and a business and cultural hub  of   the  Middle East and the Persian Gulf region  .
Although Dubai 's economy was historically built on the  आयल  industry , the emirate 's  western-style   मॉडल   of  business drives its  अर्थव्यवस्था  with the main revenues now coming from tourism ,  रियल  estate , and financial services .
Dubai has recently attracted world attention through many innovative large construction projects and sports events .
The  नगर  has become symbolic for its skyscrapers and high-rise buildings , such as the world 's tallest Burj Khalifa , in addition to ambitious development  प्रोजेक्ट  including man-made islands , hotels , and some of the largest shopping malls in the region and the world .
This increased attention has also highlighted labor and human rights  मुद्दे   concerning   the  city 's largely South Asian paid workforce  .
Dubai 's property market experienced a major deterioration in  2008–2009  as a result of the worldwide economic downturn following the financial crisis of 2007-2008 .
However  ,  Dubai  रै  made a steady and gradual recovery with  सहायता  coming from neighboring  अमीरात  .
The handful of new projects that are in the pipeline have been able to  सहायता  Dubai  रियल  estate make a comeback  .
As of 2012 , Dubai is the 22nd  सबसे  expensive city in the world , and the most expensive city in the Middle East , surpassing Israel 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ) .
दुबई  has also been rated as one of the best places  to  live in the Middle  ईस्ट  , including by US American global consulting firm Mercer who rated the city as the best place to live in the Middle East in 2011 .
The following is a list of colleges and universities in the U.S. state of Illinois .
Surface of the Atlantic ocean meeting the Earth 's planetary boundary layer  और  troposphere  .
Waves on an ocean coast .
इस  animation uses Earth science data  इससे  a variety of  सेंसर  on NASA Earth  observing  satellites to measure physical  oceanography  parameters such as  समंदर  currents , ocean winds ,  समुद्र  surface height and sea surface  तापमान  .
An ocean ( ; the World Ocean of  शास्त्रीय  antiquity ) is a body of saline water  कि  composes a large part of a planet 's hydrosphere .
In the context of Earth , it refers to one or all of the major divisions of  the  planet 's  संसार  Ocean – they are , in descending order of area , the Pacific , Atlantic , Indian ,  दक्षिणी  ( Antarctic ) ,  और  Arctic Oceans .
The word `` sea `` is often used interchangeably with `` ocean ''  ,  but strictly speaking a sea is a body of saline water ( possibly a division of the  संसार  Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land  .
Earth is the only planet known to have an ocean ( or any large amounts of  खोलें  liquid water  )  .
Approximately 72 % of the planet 's  सतह  ( ~3.6x108 km2  )  is covered  by  saline water that is customarily divided into several principal oceans and smaller seas , with the ocean covering approximately 71 % of the Earth 's surface .
In terms of the hydrosphere of the Earth , the  समंदर  contains 97 % of the  धरती  's water .
Oceanographers have stated that out of 97 % ,  तभी   5  % of the ocean as  a  whole on Earth has  महरूम  explored .
Because it is the principal component of Earth 's hydrosphere  ,  the world  समंदर  is integral to all known life , forms part of the carbon  साईकिल  , and influences climate and weather patterns .
The total volume  is  approximately 1.3 billion cubic kilometres ( 310 million cu mi )  साथ  an average depth of .
it  is  the  habitat of 230,000 known species , although much  of  the ocean 's depths remain unexplored and it is estimated that over two million marine species exist .
The origin of Earth 's oceans is still unknown , but oceans are  believed  to have formed  in  the Hadean  काल  and  may  have been the impetus for the emergence of life .
Extraterrestrial oceans may be  रचित  of a  चौड़ी  range of elements and compounds  .
the  only confirmed  विशाल  stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the lakes of Titan , although there is evidence for the  अस्तित्व  of  महासागर   elsewhere  in the  सौर  System .
जल्दी   in  their geologic histories , Mars and Venus are theorized to have had large water  महासागर  .
the  Mars ocean hypothesis suggests that nearly a third of the surface of Mars was once covered  by  water , though the water on Mars is no longer  oceanic  , and  a  runaway greenhouse effect may have boiled away the global ocean of Venus .
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved  in  water lower its freezing point , so that water might exist in large quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine or convecting ice .
Unconfirmed oceans are speculated beneath the surface of many dwarf planets and natural satellites ; notably , the ocean  of  Europa is believed  to  have over twice  the  water volume of Earth .
The  सौर  System 's gas giant  ग्रह  are also believed to possess liquid atmospheric layers of yet to  be  confirmed  रचनाएं  .
Oceans may also exist on exoplanets and exomoons , including surface oceans of liquid water  भीतर   a  circumstellar habitable zone .
Ocean planets are a hypothetical type of planet with a surface completely covered with liquid .
Elvis Aaron Presley ( January 8 , 1935 – August 16 , 1977 ) was an  अमरीकी  singer and actor .
A cultural icon , he  is  commonly  ज्ञात  by the single name Elvis .
एक   of   the  most popular musicians of the 20th century  ,  he is often referred to as the `` King of Rock  और  Roll '' or  ``  the King '' .
Born in Tupelo , Mississippi , Presley moved to Memphis  ,  Tennessee , with his family at  the  age of 13 .
He began his career there in 1954 , working with Sun Records owner Sam Phillips ,  जो  wanted to bring the sound of African-American music to a wider audience .
Accompanied by  guitarist  Scotty Moore  और  bassist Bill  ब्लैक  , Presley was  the  most important popularizer of  rockabilly  , an uptempo , backbeat -driven fusion of  देश  and rhythm and blues .
RCA Victor acquired his contract in a deal arranged by Colonel Tom Parker , who went on to manage the singer for over two decades .
Presley  's  first RCA single  ,  `` Heartbreak Hotel  ``  , released in January 1956 , was a number-one hit .
He became the leading figure of the newly popular sound of rock and  फेंकें  with  a  series of network television appearances and chart-topping records .
His energized interpretations of songs ,  अनेक  from African-American sources , and  उसके  uninhibited  प्रदर्शन  style made him enormously popular—and controversial .
In November 1956 , he made  उसके   फिल्मी  debut in Love Me Tender .
Drafted into military service in  1958  , Presley relaunched his recording career two years later with some of his most commercially  कामयाब  work .
He staged few concerts  however  , and guided by Parker , proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to making Hollywood movies and soundtrack albums , most  of  them critically derided  .
In  1968  , after seven years away from the stage  ,  he returned  to  live performance in a celebrated comeback television special  कि  led to an extended Las Vegas concert residency and a string of profitable tours .
In 1973 Presley staged the first concert broadcast globally  via  satellite , Aloha from  हवाई  .
Prescription drug abuse severely  deteriorated  his health , and he died suddenly in 1977 at the age of 42 .
Presley is regarded as one of the most important figures of 20th-century popular culture .
He had  a  versatile voice  और  unusually wide  कामयाबी  encompassing many genres , including country , pop  ballads  , gospel , and blues .
He is  the  best-selling solo artist in the history of popular  म्यूज़िक  .
Nominated for 14 competitive  grammys  , he won three , and received the Grammy  आजीवन  Achievement Award at age 36 .
He  रै  been  inducted  into multiple music halls of fame .
A glass of root beer with foam
Root beer is a carbonated , sweetened beverage , originally made using the root of a sassafras plant ( or the bark of a sassafras tree ) as the primary flavor .
Root beer , popularized in North America , comes in two forms : alcoholic and  नरम   पेय  .
The historical root beer was analogous to small beer in that the process provided  a  drink with a very low alcohol content .
हालांकि   जड़ें  are used as the source of many soft drinks throughout the world , often different  names  are used .
fluorescent  minerals emit visible light when exposed to  पराबैंगनी   लाइट
Fluorescence is  the  emission of light by a substance that has absorbed light or other electromagnetic radiation .
It is  a  form of luminescence .
In most  मामले  , the emitted light has a longer wavelength , and therefore lower  उर्जा   ,  than  the  absorbed radiation .
However , when  the  absorbed electromagnetic radiation is intense , it  is  possible for one electron to absorb two photons ; this two-photon absorption can lead to emission of radiation having  a  shorter wavelength than the absorbed radiation .
The emitted radiation may also be of the same wavelength  as  the  अवशोषित  radiation , termed `` resonance fluorescence '' .
The most  striking  examples of fluorescence  occur  when the absorbed  विकिरण  is in the ultraviolet region of the spectrum , and thus invisible to the human eye , and the emitted light is in the visible region  .
Fluorescence has many practical applications , including mineralogy , gemology , chemical sensors (  प्रतिदीप्ति  spectroscopy ) , fluorescent labelling , dyes , biological  डिटेक्टरों  , and , most commonly , fluorescent lamps .
Informal logic , intuitively , refers to the principles of logic and logical thought outside of a formal setting .
however   ,  perhaps because of the  अनौपचारिक  in the title  ,   the  precise definition of informal logic is a matter of some dispute .
Ralph H. Johnson and J. Anthony Blair define informal logic as  ``  a branch of logic whose task is  to   develop  non-formal standards  ,  criteria , procedures for the analysis , interpretation ,  मूल्यांकन  , criticism and construction of argumentation . ''
This  परिभाषा  reflects what had been implicit in their practice and what others were doing in their  अनौपचारिक  logic  ग्रन्थ  .
Informal logic is associated with ( informal  )  fallacies , critical thinking ,  the  Thinking Skills Movement and the interdisciplinary inquiry known  as  argumentation theory .
Frans H. van Eemeren writes that the label ``  अनौपचारिक   लॉजिक  '' covers a `` collection of normative approaches to the study  of  reasoning in ordinary language  कि   remain  closer to the practice of argumentation than formal logic .  ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60 , with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted  .
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960 , with the years of  the  Great Depression  (  1929–1939 ) highlighted .
the  Great Depression began in August of 1929  ,  when the United  राज्य  economy  पहला  went into an economic recession .
हालांकि  the country spent two months with declining GDP , it was not until the Wall Street Crash  of  October , 1929 that the effects of a  घटती  economy were felt , and a major worldwide economic downturn ensued .
The market crash marked the beginning of a decade of high unemployment , poverty , low profits , deflation , plunging farm incomes , and lost opportunities for economic growth and personal advancement .
Although its causes are still uncertain and  विवादास्पद  , the net effect was a sudden and general loss of confidence in  the  economic future .
The usual explanations include numerous factors  ,  especially high consumer debt , ill-regulated markets that permitted overoptimistic loans by banks and investors , and the lack of high-growth new industries , all interacting to create a downward economic spiral of reduced spending , falling confidence , and lowered production .
Industries that  suffered  the most included construction , agriculture as dust-bowl conditions persisted in the  agricultural  heartland , shipping  ,  mining , and logging as well as durable goods like automobiles and appliances that  could  be postponed  .
The  अर्थव्यवस्था  reached bottom in the winter of 1932–33  ;  then came four years  of  very rapid growth until 1937 , when the Recession of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment .
The Depression caused major political changes in America .
Three years into the depression , Herbert Hoover lost the 1932 presidential  चुनाव  to Franklin Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide .
Roosevelt 's economic recovery plan  ,  the New Deal , instituted unprecedented programs for relief , recovery and reform , and brought about  a  major realignment of American politics .
The Depression also resulted in an increase of emigration of people to other countries for the  पहला  time in American history .
लिये  example ,  कुछ  immigrants went back  to   उनके  native countries , and some native US citizens went to Canada , Australia , and South Africa  .
It also resulted in the mass migration  of  people from badly hit areas in the Great Plains and  the  South to places such as California and the North , respectively ( see  okies  and the Great Migration of African Americans ) .
Racial tensions also increased  दौरान   इस  time .
By the 1940s  आव्रजन  had returned back  to  normal , and emigration declined  .
A well-known example of an emigrant was Frank McCourt , who went to Ireland , as recounted  in  his book Angela 's Ashes .
the  memory of the Depression also shaped modern theories of economics and resulted in many changes  in  how  the  government dealt with  आर्थिक  downturns , such  as   the  use  of  stimulus packages , Keynesian economics , and  सोशल  Security .
It also  तराशा  modern American literature , resulting in famous novels such as John Steinbeck 's ``  the  Grapes of Wrath `` and `` Of Mice and Men `` .
The Great Depression of the 1930s started with the stock market crash of October 1929 .
Turkey ( ) , officially the Republic of Turkey , is a transcontinental country , located mostly on Anatolia in Western Asia  और  on East Thrace in Southeastern Europe .
Turkey is  bordered  by  आठ  countries : Bulgaria to the northwest ; Greece to the west  ;  Georgia to the northeast ; Armenia  ,  Iran and the  अज़रबैजानी  exclave of  nakhchivan  to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast .
the  Mediterranean Sea is to the south  ;  the  ईजियन   समुद्र  is  to  the  वेस्ट  ; and the Black Sea is to the  उत्तर  .
The  समुद्र  of Marmara , the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles ( which together form the Turkish Straits  )  demarcate the boundary  between   thrace  and Anatolia ;  वे  also  पृथक  Europe  और  Asia .
Turkey 's location at  the  crossroads of Europe and Asia makes it a country  of  significant geostrategic importance .
The country 's official language is Turkish ,  a  Turkic language , which is spoken  by  approximately  85  % of the population as mother tongue .
The most numerous ethnic  समूह   is  the Turks , who constitute between 70 % and 75 % of the population according to The World Factbook .
kurds  are the largest ethnic minority and , according to the same source , number around 18 % of the population  जबकि   अन्य  ethnic minorities are  अनुमानित  to be at 7–12 % .
The vast majority of the population is Muslim  .
The area now called  तुर्कों  has been inhabited since the Paleolithic , including various Ancient Anatolian civilizations and Thracian peoples .
बाद  Alexander the Great 's conquest , the area was Hellenized , which continued with the  रोमन  rule and the transition into the  बीज़ान्टिन  Empire .
The Seljuk Turks  began  migrating into the area in the  11th  century , starting the process of Turkification ,  जिससे   थी  greatly accelerated by the Seljuk  विजय  over the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert  in  1071  .
The Seljuk  सल्तनत   of  Rûm ruled Anatolia until the Mongol invasion in 1243 , upon which it disintegrated into several small Turkish beyliks .
Starting from the late 13th century , the Ottoman beylik united Anatolia and created an empire  encompassing  much of Southeastern Europe  ,  Western Asia  और  North Africa .
After the Ottoman Empire collapsed following its defeat in World War I , parts of  it  were occupied by the victorious Allies .
A cadre of young military officers , led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and  उसके  colleagues , organized a successful  प्रतिरोध  to the Allies ; in 1923 they established the modern  गणतंत्र  of Turkey , with Atatürk as  इसके  first president .
तुर्कों  is a democratic  ,  secular , unitary ,  संवैधानिक   गणतंत्र  with a diverse  सांस्कृतिक  heritage .
Turkey has become increasingly integrated with the West  through  membership in organisations such as the Council of Europe , NATO , OECD , OSCE and the G-20 major economies .
Turkey began full  सदस्यता  negotiations with the  यूरोपीय  Union in  2005  , having  महरूम  an associate member of the European Economic Community since 1963 and having joined  the  EU Customs Union in 1995 .
Turkey has also fostered close cultural , political and economic relations with the Middle East , Caucasus , the Turkic  राज्य  of Central Asia and the African countries through membership in organisations such as the Turkic Council , Joint Administration  of  Turkic Arts and Culture , Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and  the  Economic Cooperation Organisation .
Turkey  's   growing   अर्थव्यवस्था   और  diplomatic  पहलों  have led to its recognition as  a  regional power .
Turkey is the world 's 17th largest economy by nominal GDP and the  16th  largest by purchasing power parity .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best known as Whoopi Goldberg ( , ( born November 13 , 1955  )  is an American  comedienne  , actress , singer-songwriter , political  activist  ,  लेखक  and talk show host .
Goldberg made her film  डेब्यू  in The Color Purple ( 1985 ) , playing Celie , a mistreated black woman in the Deep South .
She received  a  nomination for the Academy Award for  बेहतरीन  Actress and won her first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film .
In 1990 , she played Oda Mae Brown  ,  a wacky psychic helping a slain man  (   पैट्रिक  Swayze ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost .
इस  performance won her  a  second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting  अभिनेत्री  ; this made Goldberg only the second black woman in the history  of  the Academy  पुरस्कार  to win an acting  oscar—the  first being  हैटी  McDaniel who won for Gone  साथ  the Wind in 1939 .
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2 , The Player ,  बना  in America , How Stella Got Her Groove  वापस  , Girl , Interrupted and Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed for  उसके  roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation , as Terry  doolittle   in  Jumpin ' Jack Flash  ,  and as Carmen Tibideaux  in  Glee , as well as  the  voice of  shenzi  the hyena in The Lion King .
Goldberg has been nominated for  13  Emmy Awards for her work in television  .
She  थी  co-producer of the  लोकप्रिय  game show Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004 .
She has been the moderator of the daytime talk show  the   दृश्य  since 2007 .
Goldberg has a Grammy ,  दो  Daytime Emmys , two Golden Globes , a Tony ( for production ,  नहीं  acting ) , and an Oscar .
In addition , Goldberg has  a  British Academy Film Award , four  लोगों  's Choice Awards , and has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame  .
She is one of the few entertainers who have won an Emmy , Grammy , Oscar , and Tony Award .
Augusta  is  a consolidated city in  the  U.S. state of Georgia  ,  located  at  the  पतन  line of the Savannah River , at the head of its navigable portion .
As of the 2010 census , the  augusta–  Richmond County population was 195,844 not  गिनती  the  unconsolidated  cities of Hephzibah and Blythe .
Augusta is the  प्रिंसिपल  city  of   the  Augusta – Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical Area , which  as  of 2010 had an  अनुमानित  population of 556,877 , making it both the second-largest city and the second-largest  मैट्रो  area in the state after Atlanta .
It is the 116th-largest  नगर  in the United States .
Internationally , Augusta is best known for hosting The Masters Tournament  in  golf each spring .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact disc which contains data .
The  नाम  is an acronym which stands for `` Compact Disc Read-only  मेमोरी  ``  .
Computers can read  cd-roms  , but can not write on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software , including video  खेल  and  मल्टीमीडिया  applications , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called enhanced  cds  , hold both computer data and audio  साथ  the  latter  capable of being played on a CD player , while data ( such as software or  डिजिटल  video ) is only  usable  on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
the  Yellow Book is the technical standard that defines the  स्वरूप  of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for all CD formats , the Yellow Book , created by Sony and  फिलिप्स  , was the first extension of Compact  डिस्क  Digital Audio .
It adapted the format to hold any form of data .
the  Chicago Blackhawks  (  spelled as Black  चीलों  before 1986 ,  और  known colloquially as the Hawks ) are a professional ice hockey team based  in   शिकागो  , Illinois .
They are members of  the  Central Division of the Western Conference of  the  National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
They  have  won four  स्टेनली  Cup championships since their founding in 1926 , most recently in  2009–10  .
The Blackhawks are one of the Original Six NHL teams , along with the Detroit Red Wings , Montreal Canadiens , Toronto Maple Leafs , Boston Bruins and New  यॉर्क  Rangers .
Since the Blackhawks have played their home games at the United Center after having spent 65 years playing  at  Chicago Stadium .
Lent celebrants carrying out a street procession  दौरान  Holy Week  .
the   बैंगनी  color is often associated with penance and detachment .
Similar Christian penitential practice is seen in other Catholic  देशों  , sometimes associated with  mortification  of the flesh .
Granada , Nicaragua .
lent  ( Latin :  quadragesima  ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical year of  अनेक   ईसाई  denominations ,  स्थायी  for a period of approximately six weeks leading up to Easter Sunday .
In  the  general Latin-rite and most Western denominations Lent  is   लिया  to run  इससे  Ash Wednesday to  maundy  Thursday ( Holy Thursday ) morning or to Easter Eve .
In  the  Catholic  गिरिजाघर  , Lent lasts until Holy Thursday , while other denominations run until Easter Eve .
The traditional purpose of Lent is the preparation of the believer through prayer , penance , repentance , almsgiving , and self-denial  .
Its institutional purpose is heightened in the annual commemoration of  पावन  Week , marking the death , burial and  क़यामत  of Jesus , which recalls the events of the  बाइबल  when Jesus is crucified on Good Friday  ,  which then culminates in the celebration on Easter Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ .
During Lent , many of the faithful commit to fasting or giving up certain types of luxuries as a form  of  penitence .
The  स्टेशन   of  the Cross , a devotional  commemoration  of Christ 's carrying the Cross and of his execution , are  प्रायः  observed .
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant churches remove flowers from their  altars  ,  जबकि  crucifixes , religious statues , and other elaborate religious symbols  हैं  often veiled in violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event .
In certain pious Catholic  देशों  ,  कुछ  adherents mark the season with the traditional abstention from the consumption of meat  .
In some countries ,  ग्रैंड  religious processions and cultural customs are observed , and the faithful attempt to visit seven churches during Holy Week in honor of Jesus Christ heading to Mount Calvary .
Lent is traditionally described as lasting for forty days , in commemoration of the forty days  जिससे  , according to the Gospels of Matthew , Mark and Luke , Jesus spent fasting in the desert before the beginning of his public ministry , where he endured temptation by the Devil  .
However , different Christian denominations calculate the forty days  of  Lent  differently  .
In most  पश्चिमी  traditions the Sundays are not counted as part of Lent ; thus the period from Ash Wednesday until Easter  consists  of 40 days when the Sundays are excluded .
However in the Roman Catholic Church Lent is now taken to end on Holy Thursday rather  than  Easter Eve , and hence lasts 38 days excluding Sundays , or 44 days in total .
This event , along with its pious customs are observed by Catholics , Lutherans , Methodists , Presbyterians , and Anglicans .
Location of Chernobyl nuclear  शक्ति  plant
The abandoned city of Pripyat with Chernobyl plant  in  the distance
Abandoned housing blocks in Pripyat
The  chernobyl  disaster ( , Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that  occurred  on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine (  तब  officially the Ukrainian SSR ) , which was  अंतर्गत  the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union  .
An explosion and fire released  विशाल  quantities of radioactive particles into the atmosphere , which spread over much of the  पश्चिमी  USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst  नाभिकीय  power plant accident in history , and is one of only two classified as a level 7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ) .
The battle to contain  the  contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over  500,000  workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles  .
the  official Soviet  casualty  count  of   31   मौतों  has been disputed , and long-term effects such as cancers  और  deformities are still being accounted for .
In grammar , a  विषय  complement is a predicative expression that  फ़ॉलो  a linking verb ( copula ) and that  complements  ( completes ) the subject of the sentence by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it .
In the former case , a renaming noun phrase  ऐसे  as a noun or pronoun  is  called a predicative nominal .
An adjective following the copula and  describing  the subject is called a predicative adjective .
In either case the predicative complement in effect mirrors the subject .
Subject complements are used with a small class of verbs called linking verbs or copula , of which be  is  the most common  .
Since copula  हैं  stative verbs , subject complements are  नहीं  affected by any action of the verb .
Subject complements  हैं  typically not clause arguments , nor  हैं  they clause adjuncts .
Throughout the fifty-five year history  of  the Grammy Awards , many significant records  have   महरूम   नियत  .
This  पेज  only  शामिल  the competitive awards won by various artists .
This does not include the various special awards  कि  are presented by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement Awards , Trustees Awards , Technical  पुरस्कार  or Legend  पुरस्कार  .
The page however does include other non-performance related Grammys ( known as the  शिल्प  & Production Fields ) that may have  महरूम  presented to the artist ( s ) .
Marshall Bruce  mathers  III ( born October 17 , 1972 ) , better known by his stage name  एमिनेम  ( stylized as EMINƎM ) and by his alter ego Slim Shady , is an American rapper , record producer ,  songwriter  and actor .
Eminem , along with his solo career , is a member of his group D12 , and also  एक  half of the hip hop duo Bad Meets Evil , with Royce da 5'9 '' .
Eminem is one of  the  best-selling artists in the world and is the best-selling artist of the 2000s .
He has been listed and ranked  as  one of the  महानतम  artists of all time by many magazines  ,  including Rolling  स्टोन  magazine which ranked him 82nd on its list of The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time .
The same magazine declared  उसे  The King of Hip Hop .
Including his work  साथ  D12 and Bad Meets Evil , Eminem has achieved ten  number-one  albums on the Billboard 200 .
He has sold more than  100  million records worldwide , including 42 million tracks and 49.1 million  एल्बम  in  the  United States .
As an underground rapper  एमिनेम  released  उसके  debut solo album , Infinite in 1996 .
The album was a critical and commercial failure .
He gained mainstream popularity in 1999 after  the  release  of  his major-label debut album The  पतला  Shady  lp  .
The LP also earned Eminem his first Grammy Award for Best Rap Album .
His next two records The Marshall Mathers LP , and The Eminem Show , also won Best  रैप  Album Grammy Awards , making  एमिनेम  the first artist to win Best  रैप  Album for three consecutive LPs .
This was followed by another studio release in 2004 titled Encore .
Eminem then went on hiatus after touring in 2005  .
He released  उसके  first album in five years titled  पतन   ,  on May 15 , 2009 .
In 2010 , Eminem released his seventh studio  एल्बम  Recovery .
Recovery  थी  an international success and was named the best selling album of 2010 worldwide ,  joining  The Eminem Show , which was the best seller of 2002 .
Eminem won Grammy Awards for both Relapse and Recovery , giving him a total of 13 Grammys in  उसके  career .
Eminem has opened other ventures , including his own record label Shady Records with his manager Paul Rosenberg .
He also has his own radio channel  ,  Shade 45  on   sirius  XM Radio .
Eminem began  an  acting career in 2002 , when he starred in the hip hop drama  फिल्मी  8 Mile .
He won the Academy  पुरस्कार   लिये  Best Original Song , becoming the first  रैप  artist  कभी  to win the award .
He has also made cameo appearances in  the  Wash ( 2001 ) , Funny  लोगों  ( 2009 ) and the television series Entourage .
The acre is a  ईकाई  of area used in the imperial and U.S. customary systems .
An acre is about 40 % of a hectare – slightly smaller than an American football field .
The acre  is  no longer commonly used , although a few notable exceptions include the United States , Australia , Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010 , the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom , though is still used in real  एस्टेट  descriptions ) .
It is still used , to some extent , in  कनाडा  .
the  international symbol  of  the acre is ac , and is defined as 1/640 of a square mile .
The most commonly used acre today is the international acre .
In the United States both the international  एकड़   और  the slightly different US survey acre are in use  .
The most common use  of  the acre is to measure tracts  of  land .
एक  international acre is defined as 4046.8564224  वर्गाकार  metres .
During the Middle Ages , an acre was the amount of  जमीन  that could be  plowed  in one day with a yoke of oxen .
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of the Law of Conservation of Mass led to many new  निष्कर्षों  in the 19th century .
Joseph Proust 's law of definite proportions and John Dalton 's atomic  सिद्धान्त  branched from the discoveries of  एंटोनी  Lavoisier .
Lavoisier 's quantitative experiments revealed that combustion involved oxygen rather than what was previously thought to be phlogiston  .
The law  of   संरक्षण  of mass , or principle of mass conservation ,  राज्य  that for any system closed to all transfers of matter and energy  (  both of which have mass ) , the mass of  the  system must  remain  constant over time , as system mass can not change quantity if it is not added or removed .
Hence , the quantity of mass  is  `` conserved '' over time .
The law implies that mass can neither be created  nor  destroyed ,  हालांकि  it may be rearranged in space , or the entities associated with  it  may be changed in form , as for example when light or physical work  is   रूपांतरित  into particles that contribute the same mass to the system as the light or work had contributed .
The law implies ( requires ) that during any chemical reaction  ,  nuclear reaction , or radioactive  क्षय  in an isolated system ,  the  mass of the  reactants  or starting material must equal the  द्रव्यमान   of  the products .
The concept of mass conservation is widely used in many fields such as  रसायन  , mechanics , and fluid dynamics .
Historically  ,  mass conservation was discovered in chemical reactions by Antoine Lavoisier in the  लेट  18th  सदी  , and was of crucial importance  in   the  progress from  alchemy  to the modern  प्राकृतिक  science of chemistry .
The closely related concept of matter conservation was  मिला  to hold  शुभ  in chemistry to such high approximation that it failed only for  the  high energies treated  by  the later refinements of relativity theory , but otherwise remains useful and sufficiently accurate for most chemical calculations , even in modern practice .
In special relativity , needed for accuracy when large energy transfers between  प्रणालियों   is  involved , the difference  between  thermodynamically closed and isolated systems becomes  महत्वपूर्ण  , since conservation of mass is strictly and perfectly upheld only for so-called isolated systems , i.e . those completely  पृथक  from all exchanges with  the  environment .
In this circumstance , the mass-energy equivalence theorem states that mass conservation is equivalent to total energy conservation ,  जिससे  is the first law of thermodynamics  .
By contrast , for a thermodynamically closed system ( i.e. ,  एक  which is closed to exchanges of matter , but open to exchanges of non-material  उर्जा  , such as heat and work , with the surroundings  )  mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved .
The input or output of non-material energy must change the mass of the system in relativity theory , although the change is usually small , since relatively large amounts of such  उर्जा  ( by comparison with ordinary  अनुभव  ) carry only a small amount  of   द्रव्यमान  ( again by ordinary standards of measurement ) .
In special relativity , mass is not converted to energy , since energy in all  of  its forms always retains its equivalent amount of mass throughout any transformation or translocation  into   ,  or out of , a system .
However  ,  certain types of matter ( a different concept ) may be converted  to  energy  ,  so long as  the  mass of the system is unchanged in  the  process .
However , if such energy is removed from systems , they must lose the mass that is associated with it .
In general relativity , mass ( and energy ) conservation in expanding volumes  of   स्पेस  is a complex concept , subject to different definitions  ,  and neither mass nor  उर्जा  is as strictly and simply conserved as is the  मामला  in special relativity and in Minkowski space .
For a discussion ,  देखिए   द्रव्यमान   in  general  आपेक्षिकता   .
A pig is any of the  पशु  in the genus Sus , within the Suidae family of even-toed ungulates .
Pigs  शामिल  the domestic pig , its ancestor the wild boar  ,  and several other wild  रिश्तेदारों  .
Young and small pigs  हैं  known  as  piglets .
Pigs are omnivores and are highly social and  बुद्धिमान  animals .
8-inch ,  -inch  , and -inch  फ्लॉपी  disks
8-inch , -inch ( full height ) , and -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette  's  `` floppy '' magnetic material , removed from its housing
A floppy disk , or diskette , is  a  disk  भंडार  medium composed of  a  disk of thin and flexible magnetic storage medium , sealed  in  a rectangular plastic carrier lined with fabric that removes dust particles .
They are read and written by a floppy disk drive ( FDD ) .
फ्लॉपी  disks , initially as media  और  later in and  3.5-inch  ( 90  mm  ) sizes , were a ubiquitous form of data storage and exchange from the mid-1970s well into  the  first decade of the 21st century .
by  2010 ,  कंप्यूटर  motherboards were rarely manufactured with floppy  ड्राइव  support ; `` floppies could be used as an  बाह्य  USB drive , but `` , 8 `` , and non-standard drives could only be handled by old  उपकरण   .
While floppy disk drives still have  कुछ  limited uses ,  विशेषकर  with legacy industrial computer equipment  ,  they have been superseded by data storage methods with  much   वृहद  capacity , such as USB flash drives , portable  बाह्य  hard disk drives , optical discs  ,  memory cards , and computer networks .
An animated diagram of a cutter
In baseball , a cutter , or cut fastball , is a type of fastball which breaks slightly toward the pitcher 's glove side as it reaches home plate .
This pitch is somewhere between a slider and a fastball , as it is usually thrown faster than a slider  लकिन  with more motion than a typical fastball .
Some pitchers  उपयोग   a  cutter as  a  way to prevent hitters from expecting their regular fastballs .
A common technique  प्रयुक्त  to throw a cutter is  to  use a four-seam  fastball   पकड़  with the baseball set slightly  बंद  center in the hand .
When a batter is able to  hit  a cutter pitch , it often results in soft contact  और  an easy out , due to the  पिच  's movement keeping the ball  दूर  from the bat 's sweet spot .
The cutter is typically 2–5 mph slower than a pitcher 's four-seam fastball .
In 2010 , the average pitch  वर्गीकृत  as  a   कटर  by PITCHf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher was 88.6 mph ; the average four-seamer was 92.1 mph .
`` What It Takes '' is a power ballad by American hard rock band Aerosmith .
It was written by Steven Tyler , Joe Perry , and  डेसमंड  Child .
It was released  in  1990 as the third  सिंगल  from Aerosmith 's critically and commercially successful 1989 album Pump .
In the video  the  Making of Pump , A & R man John Kalodner described the song as `` a masterpiece  ''  .
दौरान  live performances , Tyler  गाती  the first verse a cappella and belts out one of his  हस्ताक्षर  screams right before the chorus .
The album  संस्करण  of  the  song is followed by an untitled hidden track .
Head of Odysseus from a  यूनानी  2nd  सदी  BC marble group representing Odysseus blinding Polyphemus , found at the villa of Tiberius at  sperlonga
Detail of an ancient Roman mosaic of Ulysses in Tunisia
Odysseus ( or ; Greek : , )  ,  also  ज्ञात  by the Roman name Ulysses ( ; ) , was  a  legendary  यूनानी  king of Ithaca and  a  hero of Homer 's epic poem the Odyssey .
Odysseus also plays a key role in Homer 's Iliad and other works in that same Epic  साईकिल  .
Husband  of  Penelope , father of Telemachus , and son of Laërtes ( or  sisyphus  ) and Anticlea , Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance , guile ,  और  versatility (  polytropos  ) , and is  hence  known by the epithet Odysseus the Cunning ( mētis , or `` cunning intelligence `` ) .
He is most famous for the ten  eventful   सालो  he took to return  घर  after the decade-long Trojan War and his famous Trojan Horse  ploy  to capture the city of Troy .
Erie is a Statutory Town in Boulder and Weld counties in the U.S. state of Colorado .
the  population according to the 2010 census is 18,135 and was recorded as 6,291 at the 2000 census .
The Town  of  Erie is located just west of I-25 for easy access to I-70 ,  डेनवर  International Airport and Colorado 's entire Front Range .
Erie  's  Planning Area spans 48 square miles , extending from the north side of  राज्य  Highway 52 south to State Highway 7 , and between US 287 on the west and  अंतरराज्यीय  25 to the east .
Erie is approximately 35 minutes from Denver International Airport , 25 minutes to Denver and 20 minutes from Boulder .
The  फलक  of  trustees  serves as the legislative and  शासी  body of the Town of Erie and is responsible for establishing Town policies and goals .
The Board has the authority  to  adopt laws , ordinances and resolutions as needed to conduct the business of the Town , and by ordinance may enter  into  contracts or intergovernmental agreements to furnish , receive services  or  to provide for cooperative service delivery .
Appointed by and serving  at  the pleasure of the Board  of  Trustees , the Town Administrator  is  the chief operating  और  administrative officer of the Town and is responsible for  providing  professional leadership in the administration and execution of policies and objectives formulated by the Board .
The  मिशन  of the Erie Police Department is to communicate and work with the community to maintain a safe environment , prevent crime and enforce the law , while protecting the  अधिकारों  of all .
Erie Municipal Airport ( EIK ) is owned and operated by  the  Town of Erie and is strategically located in the  denver-boulder  metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  on Colorado Highway 7 , a little over three miles  वेस्ट   of  Interstate 25 .
The main runway is concrete paved  और  4,700 feet long .
The is a home video game  कंसोल  produced by Sony Computer Entertainment .
It is  the  successor to the PlayStation 2 ,  as  part of the PlayStation series .
The  प्लेस्टेशन  3 competes with Microsoft 's Xbox 360 and Nintendo 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video  खेल  consoles .
It was first released on  नवम्बर  11 , 2006 , in  जापानी  , with international  बाज़ार  following shortly  thereafter  .
The console was first officially announced at E3 2005 .
Originally set for a spring  2006  release date , it was delayed  अनेक  times until finally  hitting  stores at the end of the year .
It  थी  the first and currently only console to use Blu-ray Disc as its primary storage medium .
Major features of  the  console include its unified online gaming service , the PlayStation Network , and its connectivity  साथ   the  PlayStation Portable and PlayStation Vita , In September 2009 the updated  प्लेस्टेशन  3  पतला  , was released .
इस  Slim is lighter and thinner than the original version , although it  lacks  PlayStation  2  backwards compatibility ( removed on later original models )  ,  but notably featured a re-designed logo and marketing design .
as   of  November  4  , 2012 , 70 million PlayStation 3s have been sold worldwide .
Its successor , PlayStation 4  ,  is set for a Q4  2013  release .
Salvador Domingo  फेलिप  Jacinto Dalí i Domènech , 1st Marqués de Dalí de Pubol ( May 11 , 1904January 23 , 1989 ) , known as Salvador  dalí  ( )  ,  was a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in Figueres , Spain .
Dalí was a skilled draftsman , best known for the striking and bizarre images in his surrealist work .
His painterly skills are often attributed to the influence of Renaissance masters .
His best-known work ,  the   हठ  of Memory , was completed  in  1931 .
Dalí 's expansive artistic repertoire included film  ,  sculpture , and photography , in collaboration with a range  of  artists in a variety of media .
Dalí attributed his  ``  love of everything  कि  is gilded and excessive , my passion for luxury and my love of oriental clothes  ''  to a self-styled `` Arab  lineage  ''  ,  claiming that his ancestors  यहूद  descended  इससे  the Moors .
Dalí was highly imaginative , and also enjoyed indulging  in  unusual and grandiose behavior .
उसके  eccentric manner and attention-grabbing public actions  sometimes  drew more attention than his  कलाकृति  , to the dismay  of  those who held his work in high esteem , and to the irritation  of  his critics .
Philosopher Plato by Silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that study human culture , using methods that are primarily analytical , critical , or speculative , and having a significant historical element , as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences .
The humanities include  प्राचीन  and modern languages , literature , philosophy , religion , and visual and performing arts such as music and theatre .
The humanities that are also regarded as social sciences include history , anthropology , area studies , communication studies , cultural studies , law , economics and linguistics .
Scholars  working  in the humanities are sometimes described as `` humanists '' .
However ,  कि  term also  describes  the philosophical position of humanism , which some `` antihumanist `` scholars in the humanities reject .
Some secondary schools offer humanities classes , usually  consisting  of  अंग्रेज़ी  literature , global studies , and art .
Human disciplines like history  ,  cultural anthropology and psychoanalysis study subject matters to which  the  experimental method does not apply  ,  and they have access instead to the comparative method  और  comparative  शोध   .
the  2005 Blue Room Christmas Tree
The White  हाउस  Christmas Tree , also known as the Blue Room Christmas Tree , is the official indoor  क्रिसमस   पेड़  at the residence of the President of the United States , the White House  .
The first indoor Christmas tree was installed in the White House sometime in the 19th  सदी  ( there are varying claims as to the exact year ) and since 1961 the tree has had a  प्रसंग   मोटिफ  at the discretion of the First  महिला  of the United States .
The President of the United States of America ( POTUS  )  is the head of state and head of government of the United  राज्य  .
The president leads the executive branch of  the  federal government and is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the execution of federal law , alongside the responsibility  of  appointing federal executive , diplomatic , regulatory , and judicial officers , and concluding treaties  साथ   विदेशी  powers , with the advice and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and  reprieves  , and to convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress  अंतर्गत  extraordinary circumstances .
Since  the  founding of the United States , the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president , despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed  बिल्स  , is  largely  responsible for dictating the legislative agenda  of  his party and the  विदेशी  and domestic policy  of  the United States .
The president is  अक्सर  described as the most  शक्तिशाली  person in the world .
The president is indirectly elected by  the  people  through  the Electoral College to  a  four-year term , and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers , the other being the Vice President of the United States  .
The Twenty-second Amendment , adopted in 1951 , prohibits anyone from ever being elected to  the  presidency for a third full term .
It also prohibits a person from being  निर्वाचित  to the presidency more  than  once if that person  previously   था  served  as  president , or acting president , for  अधिक  than  दो  years of another  व्यक्ति   's  term as president .
In all , 43  individuals  have served 55 four-year terms .
On January 20 ,  2009  , Barack Obama became the 44th and current president .
on  November 6 ,  2012  , he was re-elected and is scheduled  to  serve until January 20  ,  2017 .
Senses are physiological capacities of organisms that provide  आंकड़ा  for perception .
The senses and their operation , classification , and theory are overlapping topics studied  by  a variety of fields , most notably neuroscience , cognitive psychology ( or cognitive science  )  , and philosophy of perception .
the  nervous system has a specific sensory system or organ ,  समर्पित  to each sense .
Humans have a multitude of  होश  .
Sight ( ophthalmoception ) , hearing ( audioception ) , taste (  gustaoception  ) , smell (  olfacoception  or olfacception ) ,  और  touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized .
While the ability  to  detect other stimuli beyond those governed  by  the  परंपरागत  senses exists  ,  including temperature  (  thermoception ) , kinesthetic sense ( proprioception ) ,  पीड़ा  ( nociception ) , balance ( equilibrioception ) , acceleration ( kinesthesioception ) , and  विभिन्न  internal stimuli ( e.g .  the  different chemoreceptors for detecting salt and  कार्बन  dioxide concentrations in the blood ) , only  a  small number of these can safely be classified  as   पृथक  senses in and of themselves .
What constitutes a sense is  a  matter of some debate , leading to difficulties in defining  कया  exactly a  भाव   is  .
Animals also have receptors to sense the world around them  ,  with  डिग्री  of capability varying greatly between species .
Humans have a  comparatively  weak sense of smell , while some animals may lack one or more of the traditional five senses .
Some animals may  भी  intake  और   interpret   संवेदी  stimuli in very different  तरीके  .
Some  प्रजाति  of animals are able to sense the world in a way that humans can not , with some species able to sense electrical and magnetic fields  ,  and detect water pressure and currents .
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that  इंजेक्ट  venom .
They are the largest order of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity among all other groups  of  organisms .
Spiders are found  विश्वव्यापी  on every continent except for Antarctica , and have become established  in  nearly every habitat with the  एक्सेप्शन  of air and sea  colonization  .
As of 2008 ,  at  least 43,678 spider species , and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however , there has been confusion within the  वैज्ञानिक  community as to how all these families should be classified , as evidenced by the over 20 different  classifications  that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body segments are fused into two tagmata , the cephalothorax and abdomen , and joined by a small , cylindrical pedicel .
Unlike insects  ,  spiders do not have antennae .
In all except the most primitive group , the  mesothelae  , spiders have the most  centralized  nervous systems of  सब  arthropods , as all  उनके  ganglia are fused into one mass in the  cephalothorax  .
Unlike most arthropods , spiders have no extensor muscles in  उनके   limbs  and instead extend  उन्हें  by hydraulic pressure .
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified into spinnerets that  extrude  silk from up to six types of silk  ग्रंथियों  within their abdomen .
मकड़ी  webs vary widely in size ,  आकार   और  the amount of sticky thread used .
It now appears that the spiral orb web may  be  one of the  earliest  forms , and spiders that  उपज  tangled cobwebs  हैं   अधिक  abundant and diverse than  orb-web   मकड़ियों  .
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about , but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets .
True spiders have been found in Carboniferous rocks from ,  और  are very  समान  to the most primitive surviving order , the Mesothelae  .
The main groups of modern spiders , Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae , first appeared in the Triassic period , before  .
A herbivorous species , Bagheera kiplingi , was described in 2008 , but all other known species  हैं   परभक्षी  ,  ज़्यादातर  preying on insects and on other spiders , although a few large species also take birds and lizards .
मकड़ियों  use  a  wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs , lassoing it with sticky  bolas  , mimicking the prey  to  avoid  डिटेक्शन   ,  or running it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations , but the active  hunters  have acute  दृष्टि  , and hunters of the genus Portia show signs of intelligence in  उनके  choice of tactics and ability  to  develop new ones  .
Spiders '  गुस्ताखी  are too narrow to take solids , and they liquidize their food by  बाढ़  it with digestive enzymes  और  grinding it with  the  bases of their pedipalps , as they do not have true jaws .
Male spiders identify themselves  by  a variety of complex courtship rituals to avoid being  खाया  by the females .
Males of most species survive a few matings  ,  limited mainly by their short life spans .
Females weave silk egg-cases , each of which may contain hundreds of eggs .
Females of many species care for their young ,  लिये   उदाहरण  by carrying them around or by sharing food with  उन्हें  .
A minority  of  species are  सोशल  , building communal  webs  that may  हाउस  anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals .
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration ,  as  in the widow spiders , to co-operative hunting and  food-sharing   .
Although most spiders  सजीव  for at most two years , tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity  .
While the  venom  of a few species is dangerous to humans , scientists are now  researching  the use of spider venom in medicine and as  non-polluting   pesticides  .
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness , strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic materials , and spider  रेशा  genes have  महरूम  inserted into  स्तनधारियों   और  plants to see if these can be used as silk factories .
As a result of their wide range of behaviors , spiders have become common  प्रतीकों  in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience , cruelty and creative powers .
धूसर  's  anatomy  is an  अमरीकी  television medical drama that premiered on  the   अमरीकी  Broadcasting Company ( ABC  )  , as a mid-season replacement on  कूच  27  ,  2005 .
The series has  aired  nine seasons  ,  and focuses on the fictional lives of surgical interns and residents as they gradually evolve into seasoned doctors , while trying  to  maintain personal lives .
The show 's premise originated  साथ  Shonda Rhimes  ,   जो   serves   as  an executive producer , along with Betsy Beers , Mark Gordon , Krista Vernoff  ,  Rob Corn , Mark Wilding , and Allan  heinberg  .
The series was created to be racially diverse , utilizing  a  color-blind  ढलाई  technique .
It  is  primarily filmed in Los Angeles ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
The series ' protagonist is Dr. Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ) , who originally is accepted into the  रेसिडेंसी  program at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital .
Meredith is assigned  to  work under Dr. Miranda Bailey ( Chandra Wilson ) , along with Dr. Cristina Yang ( Sandra Oh ) , Dr. George O'Malley  (  T.  R.  Knight ) , Dr. Izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ) , and Dr.  एलेक्स  Karev ( Justin Chambers ) .
Following O'Malley 's  मौत  and Stevens ' departure , the  हॉस्पिटल  's merger with Mercy West brings in Dr. Jackson Avery ( Jesse Williams ) and Dr. April Kepner ( Sarah Drew ) ,  in  the sixth season  .
The surgical wing is primarily supervised by Dr. Richard Webber ( James Pickens , Jr. ) , who  is  eventually  replaced  by Dr. Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ) , and later Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ) .
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah  वॉशिंगटन  ) departs at the conclusion of the third season , and is replaced by Dr. Erica Hahn  (  Brooke Smith ) , who leaves the show during the fifth season , and later Dr. Teddy Altman ( Kim Raver ) , who departs at the end  of  the eighth season .
Introduced in the  दूसरी  season is Dr. Addison Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ) , who leaves the show at the end of the third season , in order to launch her own spin-off medical drama Private Practice .
Dr. Callie Torres (  सारा  Ramirez ) and Dr. Mark Sloan ( Eric Dane ) also enter the show in the second season , while the latter dies in the premiere of the ninth season .
मेरेडिथ  's half-sister , Dr. Lexie Grey ( Chyler Leigh )  ,  appears from  ऋतु  three and dies  at  the end of season eight .
Dr. Arizona Robbins ( Jessica Capshaw ) is given series regular status at the beginning of the sixth season .
Grey 's Anatomy  is  the highest-rated drama in the key 18–49  जनसांख्यिकी  .
Previously among the overall top-ten rated shows in the  संयुक्त  States , Grey 's Anatomy has been well  प्राप्त  by critics .
Considered an impact on culture , the series has received numerous awards , and has also been included in various critics ' top ten lists .
The show has produced several specials , as well as distributed all seasons to DVD ,  और  released a collection of merchandise .
In 2012 , Grey 's Anatomy was named the fifth-highest revenue earning show , in terms of advertising per half-hour .
On May 11 , 2012 , the  श्रेणी  was renewed for a ninth  ऋतु  , which  premiered  on September 27 , 2012 .
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a mental disorder characterized by a breakdown of thought processes and by a deficit of typical emotional responses  .
Common symptoms include auditory hallucinations , paranoid  or  bizarre delusions ,  or  disorganized speech  और  thinking , and it is accompanied by significant  सोशल  or occupational dysfunction .
The  onset  of symptoms typically  occurs  in young adulthood , with  a  global lifetime prevalence of about 0.3–0.7 % .
Diagnosis is based on observed behavior and the  रोगी  's reported experiences .
Genetics , early environment , neurobiology ,  और  psychological  और  social processes appear to  be  important contributory factors ; some recreational and prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms .
Current  शोध  is focused on the role of neurobiology , although no single isolated organic  कारण  has been found .
The  अनेक   संभावित  combinations of symptoms have triggered debate  परिचय  whether the diagnosis represents a single disorder or a number of  अलहदा  syndromes .
Despite the etymology of the term from the  यूनानी  roots skhizein ( σχίζειν , `` to split '' ) and phrēn , phren- ( φρήν , φρεν-  ;  `` mind '' ) ,  schizophrenia  does not imply  a  ``  विभाजित  personality '' , or `` multiple personality disorder '' ( which is known these days as dissociative identity  विकार  ) —a condition with which it is often confused in public perception .
Rather ,  the  term means a `` splitting of mental functions '' , because of the symptomatic presentation of the illness .
The mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic medication , which primarily suppresses dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor  कार्यकलाप  .
Psychotherapy and vocational and social rehabilitation are  भी  important  in  treatment .
In more  गंभीर  cases—where there is risk to self and others— involuntary hospitalization may be necessary , although hospital stays are now shorter and less frequent than they once were  .
The disorder is  विचार  mainly to affect cognition , but  it  also usually contributes  to  chronic problems with behavior  और  emotion .
People with schizophrenia are likely to have additional  (  comorbid ) conditions , including major  अवसाद  and anxiety disorders  ;  the lifetime occurrence of substance use disorder is almost  50  % .
सोशल  problems , such as long-term unemployment , poverty , and homelessness are common .
The average life expectancy of people with the disorder is  12  to 15 years  कम  than those without , the result of increased physical health problems and a higher  आत्महत्या  rate ( about 5 % ) .
Paul Leslie Snider ( April 15 , 1951–August 14 , 1980 ) was the estranged husband and manager of Playboy model Dorothy Stratten , whom he  murdered  before killing  खुद  the same day .
The Epic of Gilgamesh , an epic poem from Mesopotamia , is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature .
The literary history of Gilgamesh  begins   साथ  five independent Sumerian poems about  'bilgamesh  ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ) ,  किंग  of  uruk  .
Four of these  यहूद  used as  सोर्स  material for a combined epic in Akkadian .
This first combined epic , known  as  the `` Old Babylonian '' version  ,   तिथियाँ  to the 18th century BC and is titled after its incipit , Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ) .
Only a few fragments of it  have  survived .
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th centuries  bc  and bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( ``  he  who Saw the Deep '' ) .
Fragments of approximately two thirds of this longer , twelve-tablet  संस्करण   have  been recovered .
Some of the best copies were discovered in the library  तबाह   of  the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal .
The story centers on a friendship between Gilgamesh  और  Enkidu .
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods  as  Gilgamesh 's equal to distract  उसे   इससे  oppressing the people of Uruk .
Together , they  यात्रा  to  the  Cedar  पहाड़   to  defeat Humbaba , its monstrous guardian .
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven  ,  which the goddess Ishtar sends  to  punish Gilgamesh for spurning her advances .
As a punishment for these actions , the gods sentence Enkidu to  मौत  .
The  दूसरी  half of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu  's  death , and his quest for immortality .
In order to learn the secret of eternal  जीवन  , Gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous journey .
He learns that `` The life that you  हैं  seeking you will never find  .
When the gods created man they allotted to him death , but life they retained in their own keeping . ''
इस  quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the  एपिक  , and then attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic .
nevertheless  , Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death , because of his great  भवन  projects , and his  खाता  of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood .
The  स्टोरी  has been translated into many different  भाषाएं  , and Gilgamesh has since become  adapted   in  works of popular fiction .
A eukaryote ( or ) is an organism whose cells contain complex structures enclosed within membranes .
Eukaryotes may more formally be referred to as the taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota .
The defining membrane-bound structure that sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells is the nucleus , or nuclear envelope , within which the genetic material is carried .
the  presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes  उनके  name , which comes from the Greek ( eu , `` good '' ) and ( karyon , `` nut  ''   or  `` kernel '' ) .
Most eukaryotic cells also contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria , chloroplasts and the  golgi  apparatus .
All large complex organisms are  eukaryotes  , including animals , plants and fungi .
The group also includes many unicellular organisms .
Cell division in eukaryotes is different from that in organisms without a nucleus (  prokaryote  ) .
it  involves separating the duplicated chromosomes , through movements directed  by  microtubules .
वहीँ  are two types of  प्रभाग   प्रक्रियाओं  .
In mitosis , one cell divides to produce two genetically  एकसमान  cells .
In meiosis , which is required  in  sexual reproduction , one diploid cell ( having two instances  of  each chromosome , one  इससे  each parent ) undergoes recombination of each pair of parental chromosomes , and then two stages of cell division , resulting in four haploid cells ( gametes ) .
Each gamete  रै  just one  पूरक  of chromosomes , each a unique mix of the corresponding pair of parental  गुणसूत्रों  .
Eukaryota  appears  to  be  monophyletic , and  so  makes up one of the three domains of life .
The two other domains , Bacteria and Archaea ,  हैं  prokaryotes and have none of the above features .
Eukaryotes represent a tiny minority of all living things ; even in a human body there are 10  टाइम्स  more microbes than human cells .
However , due to their much larger size their collective worldwide biomass is estimated at about equal to that of prokaryotes .
They are considered to have first developed approximately 1.6–2.1 billion years ago  .
The use of Internet services or software with Internet access to defraud victims or to otherwise  लो  advantage  of   उन्हें  , for example  by   चोरी  personal information , which can even lead to identity theft .
A very common form of Internet fraud is the distribution of  दुष्ट  security software .
Internet services can be used to present fraudulent solicitations to prospective victims , to conduct fraudulent transactions , or to transmit the proceeds of fraud to financial institutions or to others connected with the scheme .
Internet  धोखाधड़ी  can occur in chat rooms , email , message boards  ,  or on websites .
the  International Security  सहायता  Force ( ISAF ) is a NATO -led  सुरक्षा  mission in Afghanistan  कि  was established by the United Nations Security Council in December 2001 by Resolution  1386  , as envisaged by the Bonn Agreement .
Its main purpose is to train the Afghan National Security  शक्तियां  ( ANSF )  और  assist  अफगानिस्तान   in  rebuilding key government institutions but is also engaged in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups .
ISAF was initially charged with  securing  Kabul and  surrounding  areas from the Taliban , al Qaeda and factional warlords , so as to allow for  the  establishment of the Afghan Transitional  प्रशासन  headed by Hamid Karzai .
In October 2003 , the  un  Security Council authorized the expansion  of  the ISAF mission throughout  अफगानिस्तान  , and ISAF subsequently expanded the mission in four main stages over the whole of the  देश  .
From 2006 to 2011 , ISAF had been involved in increasingly more  intensive  combat operations in southern and eastern Afghanistan .
Troop contributors include from the United States , United Kingdom , NATO member  राज्य  and a number of other countries .
The intensity of the combat faced by contributing nations varies greatly , with the  संयुक्त  States , United Kingdom , and Canada sustaining the majority of casualties in intensive combat operations , with other contributors sustaining significantly less .
As of early 2010 ,  वहीँ  were at least  700  military bases inside Afghanistan but more were expected to be built in the coming years .
About 400 of these were used by American‐led NATO forces and 300  by  ANSF .
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine  )  ( INN ) is a crystalline tropane alkaloid that  is  obtained from the leaves of the coca plant .
the  name comes  इससे  `` coca '' and  the  alkaloid suffix -ine  ,  forming cocaine .
it  is a stimulant , an appetite suppressant , and a topical anesthetic .
Biologically ,  कोका   अधिनियमों  as a serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor , also known as a triple reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ) .
It is addictive because of its effect on the mesolimbic reward  pathway  .
Unlike most molecules , cocaine has pockets  साथ  both high hydrophilic and lipophilic efficiency  ,  violating the rule of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance .
This causes it to cross the blood–brain barrier far better than other psychoactive chemicals and may even induce blood-brain  अवरोध  breakdown .
It is illegal to possess , produce , or  वितरित  cocaine for non-medicinal and  non-government-sanctioned  purposes  in  almost  प्रत्येक  country .
Whole beef tri-tip rump , roasted medium  विरल
the  tri-tip is  a  cut of beef from the bottom sirloin primal cut .
It is a small triangular muscle , usually 1.5  to  2.5 lbs . ( 675 to 1,150g ) per side of beef .
The  वैज्ञानिक  name of this muscle is tensor fasciae latae , inserted in the fascia lata , the connective tissue  covering  the quadriceps femoris  ,   भी  called quadriceps extensor , a group of four muscles which in  फेरे  insert in the patella , or  घुटना  cap of the  एनिमल  .
Willmar is a city in ,  और  the county seat of  ,  Kandiyohi County , Minnesota , United  राज्य  .
The population was 19,610  at  the 2010 census .
Willmar has been assigned ZIP code 56201 by the United States Postal  सेवा  .
U.S . Routes 12 and 71 and Minnesota State Highways 23 and 40  हैं  four of the  प्रमुख  routes in the city .
The Speaker of the United States  हाउस  of Representatives ( or Speaker of the House ) is the presiding officer of the  कक्ष   .
The office was established in 1789 by Article I , Section 2 of the  संयुक्त  States  संविधान  , which states in part  ,  `` The House of  प्रतिनिधि  shall chuse their Speaker ... ''
The  वर्तमान  Speaker is John Boehner , a Republican who represents Ohio 's 8th congressional district .
The Constitution does not require that the Speaker  be  a Member of Congress , but no non-member has ever been elected to the office .
The Speaker is second in the  संयुक्त  States presidential line of succession , after the Vice President and ahead of the President pro tempore of the U.S.  सीनेट  .
नापसंद  some Westminster  प्रणाली  parliaments , in which the office of Speaker is considered non-partisan  ,  in the United States the Speaker  of  the House  is  a leadership position and the office-holder actively works to set the majority party 's  विधान  agenda .
The Speaker  प्रायः   करता  not personally preside over debates ,  बजाय  delegating the duty to members of the House from the majority party .
Aside from duties relating to heading the House and the majority political party , the Speaker also performs administrative and procedural functions  ,  and represents  उसके  or her Congressional  ज़िला  .
A bicycle frame is the main component of a bicycle , on to which wheels and other components are fitted .
The modern and most common frame design for an upright bicycle is based on the  सुरक्षा  bicycle  ,  and consists of two triangles , a main triangle and a paired rear triangle .
This is known as the diamond frame .
Frames are required to be strong ,  stiff  and light , which they do by  combining  different materials and shapes .
`` Simple gravity pendulum '' model assumes no friction or air  प्रतिरोध  .
An exemplar animation of a pendulum showing the velocity and acceleration vectors
A pendulum is a weight suspended from a so that it can swing freely .
When a pendulum is  विस्थापित  sideways from its resting equilibrium position ,  it  is subject to a restoring  फ़ोर्स  due to gravity that will accelerate it back  toward  the equilibrium position  .
When released ,  the   restoring  force combined with the pendulum 's mass causes it to oscillate about  the  equilibrium  स्थिति  ,  सुहाने  back and forth .
The time for one complete cycle , a left swing  और  a right swing , is  पुकारा  the period .
A pendulum swings with a  विशिष्ट  period which depends ( mainly ) on its length .
From its discovery around 1602 by Galileo Galilei the regular  गति  of  pendulums  was used for timekeeping ,  और   थी  the  संसार  's most accurate timekeeping technology  जबतक  the 1930s .
Pendulums are used to regulate pendulum clocks , and  हैं  used in scientific instruments such as accelerometers and seismometers .
Historically they were used as  gravimeters  to measure the acceleration of gravity in geophysical surveys , and even as a standard of length .
The word 'pendulum ' is new Latin , from the Latin pendulus , meaning 'hanging ' .
The simple gravity pendulum is an idealized  गणितीय  model of a pendulum .
This is a weight ( or bob ) on the end of a massless  cord  suspended from a , without friction  .
When given an initial push ,  it  will swing  वापस  and forth at a constant amplitude .
Real pendulums are subject to friction and air drag , so the  आयाम  of  उनके  swings declines .
The First Battle of Bull Run , also known as First Manassas ( the name used  by  Confederate forces ) , was fought on July 21 ,  1861  ,  in  Prince William County , Virginia , near the city of  manassas  .
It was the first major land battle of the American Civil War .
Just months after the start of the war at Fort Sumter , the Northern public clamored for a march against the Confederate capital of Richmond , Virginia , which  वे  expected to bring an early end to the  विद्रोह  .
Yielding to political pressure , Brig . Gen. Irvin McDowell  led  his  unseasoned  Union Army across  सांड  Run against the equally inexperienced Confederate Army of Brig . Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped near Manassas Junction .
McDowell 's ambitious plan for a surprise flank attack on the Confederate left was  poorly  executed by his  अधिकारियों   और  men ; nevertheless , the Confederates , who had been  नियोजन  to attack the Union left flank  ,  found themselves at an initial  disadvantage  .
Confederate reinforcements under Brig . Gen.  जोसेफ  E. Johnston arrived from the Shenandoah Valley  by  railroad and the course of the battle quickly changed .
A brigade of Virginians under a relatively unknown colonel from the Virginia Military Institute , Thomas J. Jackson , stood their ground and Jackson received his famous  उपनाम  ,  ``  Stonewall Jackson '' .
The Confederates then launched a strong counterattack , and as the Union troops began withdrawing under fire  ,   अनेक  panicked and it turned into a rout as McDowell 's men frantically ran without order in the direction of Washington , D.C .
Both armies were  sobered  by the fierce  लड़  and many casualties  ,   और  realized the war was going  to  be  much  longer and bloodier than either had anticipated  .
Thunderstorm near Garajau , Madeira
Weather is the state of the atmosphere , to the degree that it is hot or cold , wet or dry , calm or stormy , clear or  cloudy  .
Most weather phenomena  occur  in the troposphere , just below the stratosphere .
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and precipitation activity , whereas climate is the term  लिये  the average atmospheric conditions over longer periods of  समय  .
When used without qualification , ``  मौसम  '' is understood to  be  the weather of Earth .
मौसम  is driven by air pressure ( temperature and moisture ) differences between one place and another .
These pressure and temperature differences can occur due to the sun angle at  कोई  particular spot , which varies by latitude from the tropics .
The  दमदार  temperature contrast between  ध्रुवीय  and tropical air gives  वृद्धि   to  the jet  स्ट्रीम  .
Weather systems in the mid-latitudes , such as extratropical cyclones , are  caused  by instabilities of the jet stream flow .
Because the Earth 's  अक्ष  is tilted relative to  इसके  orbital  प्लेन  , sunlight is  घटना  at different angles  at  different times of  the  year .
On Earth 's surface ,  temperatures  usually  दायरा  ±40 °C (  −40  °F  to  100  °f  ) annually  .
Over thousands of years ,  परिवर्तन  in Earth 's orbit affect  the  amount and  वितरण  of solar  उर्जा  received by  the  Earth and  influence  long-term climate and global climate change .
Surface temperature differences in  फेरे  cause pressure differences .
Higher altitudes are  कूलर  than lower altitudes due to differences in compressional heating .
मौसम  forecasting is the application of science and  प्रौद्योगिकी   to  predict the state of the atmosphere for a future time and a given location .
The  माहौल   is  a chaotic system , so small changes to one  भाग  of the system can grow to have large effects  on  the system  as  a whole .
Human attempts  to  control  the  weather have occurred throughout human history , and there is evidence that human  कार्यकलाप  such as agriculture and industry has inadvertently modified weather patterns .
Studying how the weather works on  अन्य  planets has been helpful in understanding how weather works on Earth  .
A famous landmark in the Solar System , Jupiter  's   ग्रेट  Red Spot , is an anticyclonic storm known to have existed for at least 300 years .
however  , weather is  नहीं  limited to planetary bodies .
A star  's   किरीट  is  constantly  being lost to  स्पेस  , creating what is essentially a very thin atmosphere throughout  the  Solar System .
The movement  of  mass ejected from the Sun is  ज्ञात  as the  सौर  wind .
कैटी  Perry is an American singer-songwriter from Santa Barbara , California .
वो  signed with Capitol Records .
Perry has released  तीन  studio albums ,  सहित  her debut  ईसाई  effort Katy Hudson , One of the Boys , and  teenage  Dream .
पेरी  's mainstream career was kicked off with the massive chart success of her debut single `` I Kissed a Girl ``  .
During her career , Perry has been nominated for  numerous  major music awards , primarily for Teenage Dream and One  of  the Boys .
The following is a list of sovereign states and territories where English  is  an official language or language of government .
In  2012  , there were 88 states in total ( 60 sovereign states  और  28 non-sovereign states ) .
In many countries English is the dominant language  ,   लकिन   करता  not have official status .
In Australia , English is spoken by the vast majority of the population and is the only  भाषा  used  in  government institutions  ,  but Australia does not have an official language .
The case is the same  in  the United Kingdom and the United States ,  हालांकि  many states and regions within  the  U.S. do  have  English as an official language .
English is the dominant language of New  जीलैंड  and  an  official language of Canada ( along with French ) , India  (  along with Hindi and  अनेक  other languages ) , Ireland  (  along with Irish ) ,  और  the Philippines ( along with Tagalog  )  .
English is the sole official language of the Commonwealth of Nations and the Commonwealth Games .
English is  एक  of the official languages of the United Nations , the European Union and the International Olympic Committee .
Many of these  देशों  are current or former colonies  or  dependencies of the United Kingdom (  देखिए  also British Empire  )  , or of the United States , itself a former colony of the UK .
Notable exceptions include Rwanda ,  जिससे  was a former Belgian colony and Eritrea  ,  which was an Italian colony where the British Empire spanned  इसके  control only in World  युद्ध  II and shortly  बाद   (  1941-1952 ) .
India 's linguistic picture is complex  .
According to the Constitution of India , `` Hindi in the Devanagari script '' is the  आधिकारिक  language of the union ; and English the 'subsidiary official language ' ;  however  , English is mandated for the authoritative texts of all federal  कानून  and Supreme Court decisions and  (  along with Hindi ) is one of the two languages of the Indian Parliament .
English is used almost exclusively for higher education , business and science .
Courses in majority of the schools  हैं  taught  exclusively  in  अंग्रेज़ी  .
English is extensively used for administrative purposes in India .
India is  the  second-largest English-speaking country in  the  world by number of speakers , after the United States .
as  such , many consider English to be the  de   facto  official language of India .
See Official languages of India .
The linguistic  मेकअप   of  Pakistan is similarly complex .
While the national language is  उर्दू  , English is an official language and used  in  business  ,  government and law .
अंग्रेज़ी  is  a  compulsory language in schools .
All school courses are taught in  अंग्रेज़ी  .
Pakistan is the 9th largest English-speaking country in the world by population .
Southern Cone ( , ) is a  भौगोलिक  region composed of the southernmost areas of South America , south of the Tropic of Capricorn .
Although geographically this includes Southern and part of Southeast ( São Paulo ) of Brazil ,  in  terms of political geography the Southern cone has traditionally comprised  अर्जेंटीना  , Chile , Paraguay , and Uruguay .
In  the  narrowest sense , it only  कवर  Argentina , Chile  और  Uruguay , bounded on the north by the states of Brazil , Paraguay , Bolivia and  पेरू  , on the west by the Pacific Ocean , and south to the junction between the Pacific  और  Atlantic Oceans , which it  is  the closest continental area of Antarctica (  1000  km ) .
High life  प्रत्याशा  , the highest Human Development Index of Latin  अमेरिका  , high Standard of living , significant participation in the global markets  और  the  उभरते  economy of its members make the Southern Cone the most prosperous macro-region in South America .
For multi-event athletic competitions  देखिए  Track and Field Competitions , section ``  बैठक  '' .
Meetings are sometimes held around conference tables .
In a meeting , two or more people come together to discuss one or more topics , often in  a  formal setting  .
An official game in baseball , also  sometimes  called  a  regulation game , is a game that has progressed beyond the point at which it can  be  considered complete if necessary .
This is approximately the halfway point of  the  game  .
In the case of inclement weather , any game which has  पहुँचे  this point  may  be stopped and shortened as needed , with the result being final , and all records and statistics counted .
A game which has  नहीं  reached this point before being  रोका  is either considered a  निलंबित  game ( to be continued at a later date from the point of stoppage ) , or is simply canceled and  replayed  from the start .
( This depends  on  the rules of each  व्यक्तिगत  league . )
In either  मामला  , no statistics are  गिने  until the  खेल   becomes  official .
Since most professional baseball games are  नौ  innings long , the fifth inning is used as the threshold for an official game .
If the visiting team is leading ,  or  the  खेल  is tied  ,  the end of the fifth inning marks  इस  point .
if  the home team  (  which bats last )  is  already ahead in  the  score , and  theoretically  would not need its half of the fifth  inning  , then 41⁄2 innings ( i.e. , the  मध्य  of the fifth ) is considered  an  official game .
The game is also considered official if the home team scores to take the lead in the bottom of the fifth inning , since the  खेल  would end immediately if the  वही  thing happened in  the  ninth .
In nearly all cases , the `` official game '' status is used to determine whether a rain  जाँच   होगा  be honored for fans holding tickets .
If  a  game is started but does  नहीं  reach the point of becoming official  ,  fans are entitled to a new ticket for the make-up game or  (  in most cases ) any other available game of their choice .
If a game is  halted  after it  becomes  official , the game is simply shortened and no rain check is given .
The `` official game '' statistic received some attention during the 1995 season , when Cal Ripken , Jr. was approaching the record for  लगातार   खेल  played , previously held by Lou Gehrig .
Large  संख्याएँ  were  लटका  on the side of the B & O  गोदाम   at  Oriole Park at Camden Yards to show the number of games in Ripken 's streak .
Each day , a new number was unfurled  दौरान  the fifth inning after each  खेल  had become  आधिकारिक  ( since  the  statistic  होता  not have counted if the game had been stopped before that point ) .
A  समान  practice has  महरूम  used to count down toward  the  demolition of several stadiums (  सहित  Veterans Stadium  in  Philadelphia in 2003 , Busch  मेमोरियल  Stadium in  st.  Louis in 2005 , and  the  original Yankee Stadium and Shea  स्टेडियम  in New  यॉर्क  City in 2008 ) ; as each game became official , the team would unveil  a  new ( lower ) number showing the number of games left to be played  in  the stadium .
A telephone number or phone number  is  a sequence of digits used to call from one telephone  लकीर  to another in a public switched telephone network .
When telephone numbers were invented , they were short — as few as one , two or three digits — and were given orally to a switchboard operator .
As  फोन  systems have grown and interconnected to encompass the world , telephone numbers have become longer .
in  addition to telephones , they now access other devices ,  ऐसे  as computers and fax  मशीने  .
The  क्रमांक  contains the information necessary to identify uniquely the intended endpoint for the  टेलीफोन  call  .
Each such endpoint must have a  अद्वितीय  number within the public switched telephone network .
Most countries use fixed length numbers ( for normal lines at least ) and  इसलिए   the  number of endpoints determines the necessary length of the telephone number .
it  is also possible for each subscriber to have a set of shorter numbers for the endpoints most often used .
These `` shorthand '' or `` speed calling  ''  numbers are  automatically  translated  to  unique telephone numbers before the call can be connected .
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g. , 1-1-9 ,  9-1-1  , 0-0-0 , 9-9-9 , 1-1-1 , and 1-1-2 being the Emergency  सेवाएं  numbers for China , Japan , South Korea , Taiwan and Sri Lanka ; Canada and the United States ; Australia ; the United Kingdom , Ireland ,  दक्षिण  Africa , Poland , Saudi Arabia ,  the  United Arab Emirates , Morocco , Macao , Bahrain , Qatar , Bangladesh , Botswana , Ghana , Kenya , Hong Kong , Malaysia , Mauritius , Singapore  ,  Zimbabwe  ,  Trinidad , Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union ,  क्रमशः  . )
Many systems also allow calls within a local area to be made without dialing the local area code .
For example , a phone number in North  अमेरिका  will start with three numbers ( such as 661 ) , which is the area code  ,   followed   by  seven digits split  into  sections of three and four ( such as 550-1212 ) , which is the local number .
Some areas now have mandatory ten-digit dialing in place , even for local calls .
Most telephone  संजाल  today  (  exceptions being private intercom and secure phone networks )  हैं  interconnected in the international telephone network , where the format of telephone numbers is standardized by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164 .
This specifies that the entire number should be 15  अंक  or shorter , and begin with a country prefix .
लिये  most countries , this is followed by an area code or city code and the subscriber number ,  जिससे  might  consist  of the code  लिये  a particular telephone exchange .
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an international telephone number in writing or print , starting with a plus sign ( `` + '' ) and the country code  .
When calling an international  क्रमांक  from a  फिक्स्ड  line phone , the + must be replaced  साथ  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  call prefix chosen by  the  country the call is  होने  made from .
Some  मोबाईल  phones allow the + to be entered  सीधे  .
the  format and allocation of local phone numbers are controlled by each nation 's respective government , either directly or by sponsored organizations ( such as NANPA overseen by NeuStar Inc. ) .
Before a telephone call is connected , the telephone number must  be  dialed by the calling party or Caller .
the  called party might have equipment that  presents  caller ID before the call is answered .
A collection agency is  a  business  कि  pursues payments of  debts  owed by individuals  or  businesses .
Most collection agencies operate as agents of creditors and collect debts for a fee  or  percentage of the total amount owed .
There are  अनेक  types  of  collection agencies .
First-party agencies are  oftentimes  subsidiaries of the original company the debt is owed to .
Third-party agencies are separate companies contracted by a company to collect debts on their behalf for a fee .
Debt  खरीदार  purchase the debt at a percentage of its value , then attempt to collect it .
Each country has its own rules and regulations regarding them  .
Cannabis flower with visible trichomes
Cannabis , also known as marijuana ( from the Mexican Spanish marihuana ) , and by other names , is a preparation of the Cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug and as  आयुर्विज्ञान  .
Pharmacologically , the principal psychoactive constituent of cannabis is tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) ; it is one  of  483  ज्ञात  compounds in the plant , including at least 84  अन्य   cannabinoids  , such as  cannabidiol  ( CBD ) , cannabinol ( CBN  )  , tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ) .
and cannabigerol ( CBG ) .
This is a list of American football quarterbacks who have started for the Washington Redskins , as well as its predecessors the Boston Braves ( 1932 ) and  बोस्टन  Redskins  (   1933  –  1936  ) , in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
the   वॉशिंगटन  Redskins franchise was originally founded in  बोस्टन  , Massachusetts as the  बोस्टन  Braves , named after the local baseball franchise .
The name was changed the following year to the Redskins .
In  1937  , the franchise moved to Washington  ,  D.C .
Of  the  49 Redskins starting quarterbacks , two  have  been inducted into the  प्रो   फ़ुटबॉल  Hall of Fame : Sammy Baugh and Sonny Jurgensen .
Robert Griffin III 2012-present
Jason Campbell 2005-2009
Mark Burnell 2004-2007
Mark Rypien 1986-1993
Joe Theismann 1974-1985
Sammy Baugh 1937-1952
1st Special Forces Operational  detachment-delta  ( 1st SFOD-D ) , popularly known as Delta Force ,  is  one of the  संयुक्त  States ' four secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission Units .
It was formerly listed as the Combat Applications Group by the Department of  रक्षा   लकिन  has since been officially re-designated the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ) .
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively supported  by  USASOC , it falls  अंतर्गत  the operational control of the Joint Special Operations Command  .
डेल्टा  Force  और  its Navy counterpart , the Naval  खास  Warfare Development Group , are the United States military 's primary counter-terrorism units .
Delta Force  's  primary tasks are counter-terrorism ,  सीधा  action , and national  हस्तक्षेप  operations  ,  although it  is  an extremely versatile group capable of conducting many  प्रकार  of covert missions ,  सहित  , but not limited to , hostage rescues and raids .
The Central Intelligence Agency 's  अत्यधिक  secretive Special  क्रियाएँ  Division ( SAD ) and more specifically its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) often works with  –  and recruits – operators from Delta Force .
Alpha decay is one example type of radioactive decay , in which  an  atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle ,  और  thereby transforms ( or 'decays ' ) into an atom with a mass number  4  less and atomic number 2  कम  .
Many other types of decays are possible .
Radioactive decay , also known as nuclear decay or  radioactivity  , is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting particles of  आयनकारी  radiation .
a  material that spontaneously emits  इस  kind of radiation — which includes the emission of energetic alpha particles , beta particles , and gamma rays — is considered radioactive .
There are many  अलग  types of radioactive  क्षय  ( see table below ) .
A decay ,  or  loss of energy , results  जब  an atom with one type of nucleus ,  पुकारा  the parent radionuclide , transforms  to  an atom with a nucleus in a different state  ,  or to a different nucleus containing different numbers of protons and  neutrons  .
Either of these products is named the daughter nuclide .
In  कुछ  decays  the  parent and daughter are different chemical elements , and thus the decay process  परिणाम  in nuclear transmutation  (  creation of  an  atom  of  a new element ) .
The first decay processes to be discovered were alpha decay , beta decay , and gamma decay .
Alpha decay occurs when the nucleus ejects an alpha particle ( helium nucleus ) .
This  is  the most common process of emitting nucleons , but in rarer types of decays , nuclei can eject protons , or specific nuclei  of  other elements ( in the process called cluster decay  )  .
Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an electron or positron and a type of neutrino , in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way around .
The nucleus may capture  an  orbiting electron , converting a proton into a neutron ( electron  कैप्चर  ) .
All of  ये  processes result in nuclear transmutation .
By contrast ,  वहीँ   मौजूद  radioactive decay processes that do not result in transmutation .
The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a  गामा  ray in gamma decay , or used to eject an orbital electron by interaction with the excited nucleus in a process called internal conversion .
Radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons  ,  and this results in a change in an element from one  समस्थानिक  to another .
One type of radioactive decay results in products which are not defined , but appear in  a  range of `` pieces '' of the  असली  nucleus  .
This decay is called spontaneous fission .
इस  decay happens when a large unstable nucleus spontaneously splits into two ( and occasionally three  )  smaller daughter nuclei , and usually  emits  gamma rays , neutrons , or other particles as a  consequence  .
Radioactive decay is a stochastic  (  i.e. , random ) process at the level of single atoms , in that  ,  according to quantum theory  ,  it is impossible to predict when a particular atom will decay .
However , the chance that a given atom will decay is constant over time .
For a large number  of  atoms , the decay rate for the collection is computable from the measured decay constants of the nuclides ( or equivalently  इससे  the half-lifes ) .
Waxing is  a  form of semi-permanent hair removal which removes the hair from the root .
New  बाल   होगा  not grow back in the previously waxed area for two to eight weeks , although some people will start to see  regrowth  in only a week .
Almost any area of the body can be waxed , including eyebrows , face  ,  bikini area , legs , arms , back , abdomen and feet .
There are  अनेक  types of waxing  उपयुक्त  for removing unwanted  बाल  .
Strip waxing  is  accomplished by spreading a wax thinly over the  स्किन   .
A cloth or paper strip is then pressed  on  the top  और  ripped  बंद  the direction of  बाल  growth .
This removes the wax along with the hair  .
Strip wax can also be made at home using lemon juice , water , sugar and honey .
Hot waxing utilizes Hot wax ( as opposed to strip wax ) .
in  this case , the wax is applied somewhat  thickly  and  साथ  no cloth or paper strips  .
The wax  तब  hardens when it cools , thus allowing the easy removal by a therapist without the aid of cloths .
This waxing method is very beneficial to people who  have  sensitive skin .
Wall  पेंटिंग  ( 1st century  ad  ) from Pompeii depicting a  multigenerational  banquet
Ancient Roman culture existed throughout the almost 1200-year history of the civilization of Ancient Rome .
The term refers to the culture of the Roman Republic , later the Roman Empire , which ,  at  its peak , covered an  क्षेत्रफल  from Lowland Scotland and Morocco to  the  Euphrates .
Life in ancient Rome revolved around the city of Rome , its famed seven hills , and its monumental structures such as the Flavian Amphitheatre ( now called the Colosseum ) , the Forum of Trajan , and the Pantheon .
The city  भी  had several theaters , gymnasiums  ,  and many taverns , baths , and brothels .
throughout  the territory under ancient Rome 's control , residential architecture ranged from very modest houses to country  विला  , and in the capital city of Rome , there were imperial residences on the elegant Palatine Hill , from  जिससे  the word palace is derived .
The  विशाल  majority of the population lived in the  नगर  center , packed into insulae ( apartment blocks ) .
The city of Rome was the largest megalopolis  of  that time , with  a  population that may well have exceeded one million people , with a high end estimate of 3.6  लाख  and a low end estimate of 450,000 .
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 percent of the population under the city 's jurisdiction lived in innumerable urban centers , with population of at  तनिक  10,000 and several military settlements , a very high rate of urbanization by pre-industrial  मानकों  .
The most urbanized part of the Empire was Italy , which had an estimated rate of urbanization of 32 %  ,   the  same rate of urbanization of England in 1800 .
Most Roman towns and  शहरों  had a forum , temples and the same type of buildings , on a smaller scale , as found in  रोम   .
the  large urban  जनसांख्यिकी  required an endless supply of  खाना  which was a  जटिल  logistical task , including acquiring , transporting , storing and distribution of food for Rome and other urban centers .
Italian  खेतो  supplied vegetables and fruits , but fish and meat were luxuries .
aqueducts  were built to bring water to urban centers and wine and oil were imported from Hispania , Gaul  और  Africa .
There was a very large  राशि  of commerce between the provinces of the Roman Empire , since  इसके  transportation technology was very efficient .
The average costs of transport and  the  technology were  comparable  with 18th-century Europe .
The later city of Rome did not fill the space within  इसके  ancient Aurelian walls until after 1870 .
Eighty percent of the population under the jurisdiction of ancient Rome  जिया   in  the  countryside   in  settlements with less than 10 thousand inhabitants .
Landlords generally  resided  in cities and their estates  यहूद  left in the care of farm managers  .
The  दुर्दशा  of rural slaves was generally worse  than  their counterparts working in urban aristocratic households .
To stimulate a higher labor productivity most landlords freed a large number of slaves  और  many received wages  .
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 people lived in one  छोटी  farm  हट  in  मिश्र  , while six families  स्वामित्व  a single olive tree . '' .
Such a rural environment continued to induce migration of population to urban centers until the early 2nd century , when the urban population stopped growing and started to decline .
Starting in the middle of the 2nd century BC , private Greek culture was increasingly in ascendancy , in spite  of  tirades against the `` softening '' effects of Hellenized culture from the conservative moralists .
By the time of Augustus , cultured Greek household slaves taught the Roman young ( sometimes even the girls ) ; chefs , decorators , secretaries , doctors , and hairdressers—all  आए  from the Greek East  .
Greek sculptures adorned Hellenistic  लैंडस्केप  gardening on the Palatine or in the villas , or were  imitated  in Roman sculpture yards by Greek slaves .
The Roman cuisine preserved in the cookery books ascribed to Apicius is essentially Greek .
Roman writers disdained  लैटिन  for a cultured  यूनानी  style .
Only in law and governance was the  तिरछा  nature of Rome 's accretive culture supreme  .
Against this  इंसान  background , both the urban and  ग्रामीण  setting , one  of  history 's most influential civilizations took shape , leaving behind a cultural legacy that survives in part  आज  .
James Joseph `` Duffy '' Waldorf , Jr. ( born August 20 , 1962 ) is an American professional golfer .
Glass bottles ( for  खीरा  slices ) on shipping pallets
A  सोवियत  mayonnaise jar
A modern `` French Kilner '' jar
Glass production involves two main methods – the float glass process , which produces  चादर  glass , and glassblowing which  produces  bottles and other containers .
A  ऋतु  is a  subdivision  of the year , marked by changes in  मौसम  , ecology , and hours of daylight .
Seasons result from the yearly  क्रान्ति  of  the  Earth around the Sun and the tilt of  the  Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution .
In temperate and polar regions  ,  the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface , variations  of  which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate , and plants to be dormant .
During May , June and  जुलाई  , the northern hemisphere is exposed to  अधिक  direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun .
The same is true  of  the southern hemisphere in November , December and January .
It is the tilt  of  the Earth  कि  causes  the  Sun to be higher in  the  sky  दौरान  the summer months which increases the solar flux .
However , due to  मौसमी  lag , June  ,  July and August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and December , January and February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere .
In temperate and subpolar regions , generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their  adjectives  ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ) , summer ( estival ) ,  पतझड़  ( autumnal )  और  winter ( hibernal )  .
However , ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late  गर्मियाँ  ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four .
Hot regions have  दो  or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet  ,  or monsoon ) season and the dry season , and in some tropical areas , a cool or mild  ऋतु  .
In some parts  of  the world  ,  special `` seasons '' are  loosely  defined based on important events such as a  hurricane  season , tornado  ऋतु  or a wildfire season .
The six ecological seasons
The  चार  calendar seasons ,  चित्रित  in an ancient Roman mosaic from  ट्यूनीशिया
The Battle of Fort Sumter (  अप्रैल   12–14  , 1861 )  थी  the bombardment and  आत्मसमर्पण  of Fort  sumter  , near Charleston , South Carolina , that  प्रारंभ  the American Civil War .
Following  घोषणाओं  of secession by seven Southern states , South Carolina demanded that the U.S. Army abandon its  सुविधाएं  in Charleston Harbor .
On December 26 , 1860 , U.S. Major Robert Anderson  surreptitiously  moved  उसके  small command from the indefensible Fort Moultrie on  सुलीवान  's Island to Fort Sumter , a substantial fortress controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor .
An attempt by U.S. President James Buchanan to reinforce and resupply Anderson , using  the  unarmed merchant  जलयान  Star of the  वेस्ट   ,  failed  जब  it was fired upon by shore batteries on January 9 , 1861  .
South Carolina authorities then seized all Federal property in the  चार्ल्सटन  area , except for  फोर्ट  Sumter .
During the early months of 1861 , the situation around Fort Sumter increasingly began  to  resemble  a  siege .
In  कूच  ,  ब्रिगेडियर  . Gen. P. G. T.  beauregard  , the first general officer of the newly formed Confederate States of America , was placed in command of Confederate  शक्तियां   in  Charleston .
Beauregard  energetically  directed the strengthening of batteries around Charleston harbor aimed  at  Fort Sumter .
Conditions in the  फोर्ट   grew  dire as the Union  सैनिको  rushed to complete the installation of additional guns .
Anderson was short of men , food , and supplies .
The resupply of Fort Sumter  became  the first  संकट   of  the administration of President Abraham Lincoln .
He notified the  राज्यपाल  of South Carolina , Francis W. Pickens , that he was  sending  supply ships , which resulted in an ultimatum from  the  Confederate government :  evacuate  Fort Sumter immediately .
Major Anderson refused to  आत्मसमर्पण  .
Beginning at  4:30  a.m. on April 12 , the Confederates bombarded  the  fort from artillery batteries surrounding the harbor .
Although the Union garrison returned fire ,  वे   यहूद  significantly outgunned and , after 34 hours  ,  Major Anderson agreed to evacuate  .
There was no loss of life on  either  side as a direct result  of  this engagement , although  a  gun explosion  दौरान  the  आत्मसमर्पण  ceremonies on April 14 caused two Union deaths .
Following the battle , there was widespread support  इससे  both North and South for further military action .
Lincoln 's immediate call for 75,000 volunteers to suppress the rebellion resulted in an additional four southern slave states also declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy .
The Civil War had begun  .
3g  , short for third Generation ,  is  the third generation of mobile telecommunications technology .
3G telecommunication networks support services  कि   provide  an information transfer rate of at  तनिक  200 kbit/s  .
However ,  अनेक  services advertised as 3G provide higher speed than the minimum technical requirements for a 3G service .
Recent  3g  releases , often denoted 3.5G and 3.75G , also provide mobile broadband access of several Mbit/s to smartphones  और   मोबाईल  modems in laptop computers .
3G  पाता  application  in  wireless voice telephony , mobile Internet  अभिगम  , fixed wireless Internet access , video calls and  मोबाईल  TV .
`` Mazel Tov ! ''  लिखा  on a wine glass tag
traditionally   ,  after the groom breaks the glass , the guests shout `` Mazel Tov ! `` .
A birthday cake , iced with the words `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ) , as is often done in Israel .
Here the phrase is written in Hebrew cursive .
`` Mazel tov '' or  ``  mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / Yiddish : `` מזל טוב '' , Hebrew :  ``  mazal tov '' ; Yiddish :  ``  mazel tov '' ; lit .
`` good luck '' ) is a phrase used to express congratulations for  a  happy and significant occasion or event .
hepatitis  C is an infectious disease affecting primarily the liver ,  caused  by the hepatitis C virus  (  HCV ) .
the  infection is often asymptomatic , but chronic infection can lead to scarring  of  the  जिगर  and ultimately to cirrhosis , which  is  generally apparent after many years .
In some cases , those with cirrhosis will  go  on to develop liver  विफलता  ,  जिगर   कर्कट  or life-threatening esophageal and gastric varices .
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood contact  संबद्ध  with intravenous  ड्रग  use , poorly sterilized  चिकित्सा  equipment and transfusions .
an  estimated 130–200 million people worldwide are infected with .
the  existence of ( originally `` non- A  non-  B hepatitis '' ) was postulated in the 1970s  और  proven in 1989 .
only infects humans and chimpanzees .
The virus persists in the liver in  परिचय  85 % of those infected .
This persistent infection can be treated with medication : the standard therapy is a combination of peginterferon and ribavirin , with  either  boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases .
overall  , 50–80  %  of  लोगों  treated are cured .
Those who develop cirrhosis or liver cancer may require a liver transplant .
is the leading  कारण  of liver transplantation , though the virus usually recurs after transplantation .
No vaccine against is available .
A flexible spending  खाता  ( FSA )  ,  also known as a flexible spending arrangement , is one of  a  number of tax-advantaged financial accounts that can be set up through a  कैफेटेरिया  plan of  an  employer in the United States .
An FSA allows an employee to set aside a portion of earnings to pay for qualified expenses as established in the  कैफेटेरिया  plan , most commonly for medical  खर्च  but often for dependent  परवाह  or other expenses .
Money deducted from an employee 's pay into an FSA is not subject to payroll taxes , resulting in substantial payroll tax savings .
One significant  disadvantage  to using an FSA is that funds not used by the end of the plan  साल  are lost to the employee , known as the  ``  use  it  or lose it '' rule .
The most common type  of  flexible spending account  ,  the medical expense FSA ( also medical FSA or health FSA ) ,  is  similar to a  स्वास्थ्य   बचत  account ( HSA ) or a health reimbursement account ( HRA  )  .
However , while HSAs and HRAs are almost exclusively used as components  of  a consumer driven health care plan , medical FSAs are commonly  offered  with more  परंपरागत  health plans as well  .
In addition , funds in a  स्वास्थ्य  savings account are not lost when  the  plan year is over , unlike funds in an FSA .
Paper forms or an FSA debit card , also known as a Flexcard , may be used to access the account funds .
टेनेसी  ( ) (  )  is a U.S. state located in the Southeastern United States .
Tennessee is the 36th most  extensive  and the 17th  सबसे   populous  of the 50 United States .
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky and Virginia to the north , North Carolina to the  ईस्ट   ,  Georgia  ,   अलबामा  , and Mississippi to the south ,  और   अरकंसास  and Missouri to the west .
The Appalachian Mountains dominate the  पूर्वी  part of the state , and the Mississippi River forms  the  state 's western  किनारा  .
Tennessee 's capital and second largest city is Nashville , which has a population of  609,644  .
Memphis is the state 's largest city , with a population  of   652,050  .
The state of Tennessee is rooted in the Watauga  संघ  , a 1772 frontier pact generally regarded as the first constitutional government west of the Appalachians .
What is  अभी  Tennessee was  initially  part of North Carolina  ,  and later part of the Southwest Territory .
Tennessee was admitted to  the  Union as the 16th state  on  June 1 , 1796 .
Tennessee was the last state to leave the Union and join the Confederacy  at  the  outbreak  of the U.S. Civil War in  1861  , and the first state to be readmitted to the Union at the end  of  the war  .
Tennessee furnished more soldiers for the Confederate Army than any  अन्य  state , and more  सैनिको  for the Union Army than any other Southern state .
In the 20th century , Tennessee  transitioned  from an agrarian economy to a more diversified economy , aided at  टाइम्स  by federal  entities  such as the  टेनेसी  Valley Authority .
In  the  early 1940s , the  नगर  of Oak Ridge was established to house the Manhattan Project 's uranium enrichment facilities , helping to build the world 's first atomic bomb .
Tennessee has played a critical role in the development of many forms of American popular music , including rock and roll , blues ,  देश  , and  rockabilly   .
Beale Street in Memphis is considered by many to be  the  birthplace of the blues , with musicians such as W.C . Handy performing in its clubs  as  early as 1909 .
Memphis was also home to Sun  रिकॉर्ड   ,  where musicians such as Elvis Presley  ,  Isaac Hayes , Johnny Cash , Carl Perkins , Jerry Lee Lewis , Roy Orbison  ,   और  Charlie Rich began their recording careers  ,  and where rock and roll took shape in the 1950s .
The 1927 Victor recording sessions in Bristol generally mark the beginning of the country music genre and the rise of the Grand Ole Opry in the 1930s helped make Nashville the center of the  देश   म्यूज़िक  recording industry .
Three bricks  और  mortar museums recognize Tennessee 's role  in  nurturing various forms of popular music : the Memphis  चट्टान  N ' Soul Museum  ,  the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville , and the International  rock-a-billy  Museum in Jackson .
In addition , the Rockabilly Hall of Fame , an online site recognizing the development of rockabilly in which Tennessee played  a   निर्णायक  role  ,  is  आधारित  in Nashville  .
Tennessee 's major industries include agriculture , manufacturing , and tourism .
Poultry , soybeans , and cattle are  the   राज्य  's primary agricultural  उत्पाद  , and major manufacturing exports include chemicals , transportation  उपकरण  , and electrical equipment .
The Great Smoky Mountains National  पार्क  , the nation 's most visited national park , is headquartered in the eastern part of the state , and a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly follows the Tennessee-North Carolina border .
Other major tourist attractions include the Tennessee Aquarium in Chattanooga , the  sunsphere  in Knoxville , Dollywood in Pigeon Forge , the  पार्थेनन  , the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum ,  और  Ryman Auditorium in Nashville , and Elvis  प्रेस्ली  's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis  .
एक  design variant  of  a cock ring .
A cock ring is  a  ring  कि  can be placed around a man 's penis , usually at the base , primarily to slow the flow of blood from the  वीर्यपात  penile tissue  ,  thus maintaining an erection  लिये  a much longer period of time .
Cock rings can be worn around just  the  penis or both the penis and  scrotum  , or just  the  scrotum  अलोन  , though this is usually called a testicle cuff .
Rings can be made of a variety  of  different materials , most commonly leather , rubber , or silicone ,  हालांकि  nylon and metal are also used either as the  प्रमुख  component or part  of  the closure  .
The term cock ring is sometimes used as a synonym for a Prince Albert piercing ,  a  piercing of the penis that is usually , though not always , a metal ring  .
When  प्रयुक्त  in cases of erectile  dysfunction  they are known by various names such as  ``  erection  रिंग  '' and  ``  tension ring  ''  .
the  headquarters of  प्रमुख  League Baseball at 245 Park Avenue  ,  Midtown Manhattan , New York City , USA .
Major League Baseball ( MLB )  is  a  पेशेवर  baseball league , consisting of teams that  खेल  in the National League and the American  लीग  .
Dating to 1876 and  1901  respectively , the two leagues merged in 2000 into a single organization led by the Commissioner of Baseball , after 100 years as separate legal entities .
एमएलबी  constitutes  एक  of the major professional sports leagues of the United States and Canada .
It is composed of 30 teams — 29 in the United States and one in  कनाडा  .
Teams in MLB play 162 games each season over six months ( April through September ) .
Five  टीमों  in each league advance to a four-round postseason tournament that culminates in the  संसार  Series ,  a  best-of-seven-games championship series between the  दो  league champions  जिससे  dates to 1903 .
The organization oversees many minor-league baseball leagues which operate about 240 teams affiliated with the major-league clubs .
With the International Baseball Federation , the league also manages the international World Baseball Classic tournament .
MLB has the  उच्चतम  season attendance of  कोई  sports  लीग  in the world with  nearly  75 million spectators in  2012  .
Delaware ( ) is a U.S. state located  on  the Atlantic Coast in the Mid-Atlantic region of  the  United  राज्य  .
It is bordered  to  the south and west by Maryland , to the northeast by New Jersey , and to the north by Pennsylvania .
The state takes its name from Thomas West , 3rd Baron De La Warr , an English nobleman and Virginia 's first colonial governor ,  बाद  whom what is now  पुकारा   केप  Henlopen was originally named .
Delaware is located in the northeastern  portion  of the Delmarva  प्रायद्वीप   और  is the second smallest , the sixth least populous , but the sixth most  densely  populated  of  the fifty United  राज्य  .
Delaware is divided into three counties .
From  उत्तर  to south , these  तीन  counties are New Castle  ,  Kent , and  ससेक्स  .
While  the  southern two counties have historically been predominantly agricultural , New Castle  काउंटी   रै  been more industrialized .
Before its coastline was explored by Europeans in the  16th  century , Delaware was inhabited by several groups of Native Americans , including the Lenape in  the  north and  nanticoke   in  the  दक्षिण  .
It was  initially  colonized by Dutch traders  at  Zwaanendael , located near the present town  of  Lewes ,  in  1631 .
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American  क्रान्ति  and on December 7  ,  1787 , became the  पहला   राज्य  to ratify  the  Constitution of the United States , thereby becoming known as The  पहला  State .
Energy Transformation in Energy Systems Language
Energy transformation or energy conversion is the process  of  changing one form of energy to another  .
In physics , the term energy describes the  क्षमता  to produce certain changes within a system , without regard to limitations in transformation imposed by Entropy .
Changes in total energy of systems can  तभी  be accomplished by  adding  or subtracting energy from them , as  उर्जा  is a quantity which  is  conserved , according to the first law of thermodynamics .
According to special relativity , changes in the  उर्जा  of systems will also coincide  साथ  changes in the  प्रणाली  's mass  ,  and the total amount of  द्रव्यमान  of a system is a measure of its energy .
उर्जा  in a  प्रणाली  may be transformed so  कि  it  resides  in a different state , or a different type of energy .
Energy in many states may be used to  do  many varieties of physical work .
Energy may  be  used in natural processes or machines , or else to provide some service to  समाज  ( such as heat , light , or motion  )   .
For example , an internal combustion engine converts  the  potential chemical energy in  गैसोलीन  and  ऑक्सीजन  into heat  ,   जिससे  is then transformed into  the  propulsive energy ( kinetic energy that moves a vehicle ) .
A solar cell converts solar radiation into electrical energy that can then be used to light a  बल्ब  or power a computer .
The generic name for a device which  converts   उर्जा  from one form to another , is a  ट्रान्सड्यूसर  .
In general , most types of energy , save for thermal energy , may be converted efficiently to any other kind of energy .
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially  100  % , such as when potential energy  is  converted to kinetic energy as an object falls in vacuum , or when it  orbits  nearer  or  farther  इससे  another object , in space .
Conversion of other types of energies to heat  may  also occurs with nearly perfect efficiency ( many types  of  friction do this  )  .
Exceptions for perfect  परिवर्तन  efficiency  (  even for isolated systems ) occur when energy has already been partly distributed among many available quantum states for a collection of particles , which are freely allowed to explore any state of momentum and position ( phase space ) .
In such circumstances , a measure  पुकारा  Entropy , or evening-out of energy distribution in such states , dictates that future states of the system must  be  of at  तनिक  equal evenness in energy distribution .
( There is no way , taking the universe as a whole , to collect energy into fewer states , once it has spread  to  them ) .
A  consequence  of this requirement  is  that there are limitations to the efficiency with which thermal  उर्जा  can  be   परिवर्तित  to other kinds  of   उर्जा   ,  since thermal energy in equilibrium at a given temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states  .
Such energy is sometimes considered `` degraded energy , ''  क्युकी  it  is  not entirely usable .
The second law of thermodynamics  is  a way of stating that ,  लिये  this reason , thermal energy in a system may  be  converted to other kinds  of  energy with efficiencies  approaching  100 % , only  if  the entropy ( even-ness or disorder ) of the universe is increased by other means , to compensate for the decrease  in   एन्ट्रॉपी  associated with the disappearance of the thermal energy and its entropy content .
वरना  , only a part of thermal energy  may  be converted to other kinds of energy ( and  यूँ  , useful work ) , since the  शेष  of the heat must be reserved to be transferred to a thermal reservoir at  a  lower  तापमान  , in such  a  way that the increase  in  Entropy for this process  अधिक  than compensates for the entropy decrease associated with transformation of the rest of the heat into other types of energy .
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is  an  `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey league  of  30  franchised  member clubs , of which seven  हैं  currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States  .
Headquartered  in   नई  York City , the NHL  is  widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey  लीग  in the world , and one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada  .
The Stanley Cup  ,  the oldest professional sports trophy in North America , is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season .
The  लीग  was organized on November 26 , 1917 , in Montreal , Quebec , Canada , after the suspension of operations of its predecessor organization , the  नेशनल  Hockey Association ( NHA ) ,  जिससे  had been founded in 1909 .
It  प्रारंभ  with four teams and , through  a  series  of  expansions , contractions , and relocations , the league is now composed of 30 active franchises .
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada ,  हालांकि  the league has now been binational since 1924  जब  it expanded into the United States .
After a labour dispute that  led  to the cancellation of the entire  2004–05  season , the league resumed play under a  नई  collective bargaining agreement that included a  सैलरी  cap .
In 2009 , the NHL enjoyed record highs in  शर्तें  of sponsorships , attendance , and television audiences  .
The NHL draws many  अत्यधिक   skilled  players from all over  the  world and currently has players from  परिचय  20 different countries .
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL ,  over  the past four plus decades the percentages of  us  and European  खिलाड़ी  have increased both because of the NHL 's continued  विस्तार  from six to thirty  क्लब  since 1967 , and the  increased  availability of highly skilled European players .
This is the  पूरा  list  of  the ratified and unratified amendments to the United States Constitution  जिससे   प्राप्त  the approval of the United States Congress  .
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified  चूंकि  the  असली  signing of the Constitution , the first ten of  जिससे  are known collectively as the Bill  of  Rights .
The procedure for amending the United States Constitution is governed by Article  v  of the original text .
There  have  been many  अन्य  proposals for amendments to the United  राज्य  Constitution introduced in  कॉंग्रेस  , but not submitted to the states .
Before an  amendment  can take effect , it must be proposed to the states by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress  or  by a convention ( known as an  आलेख  V convention ) called by two-thirds of the states  ,  and ratified by three-fourths of the states  or   by  three-fourths of conventions thereof , the method  of  ratification being determined by Congress at the time of proposal .
To date ,  no  convention for proposing amendments has been called by the states , and only once—in 1933 for the ratification of the  twenty-first  amendment —has the convention method  of  ratification been employed .
FMR LLC ( Fidelity Management and Research )  or   वफ़ादारी  Investments is an American multinational financial  सेवाएं  corporation  .
It is one of the largest mutual fund and financial services groups in the world  .
It was founded  in   1946  and serves North  अमरीकी  investors .
Fidelity Ventures is its venture capital arm .
Fidelity International Limited ( FIL ) , was an international affiliate founded in 1969 , serving most countries in the rest of the world .
In September 2011 , FIL was rebranded as 'Fidelity Worldwide Investment '  .
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds  ,  provides fund distribution and investment advice services , as well as providing discount  brokerage  services , retirement services , wealth  प्रबन्धन  , securities execution  और   क्लीयरेंस  , life insurance and a number of other services .
June 2006 was the sixth month of  कि  year .
It began on a Thursday and ended after 30 days on a Friday The following events also occurred during the month:
Sociology  is  the scientific study of human society  और  its origins , development , organizations , and institutions .
It is a social science which uses various methods of empirical investigation and critical analysis to  develop  a body of knowledge about human  सोशल  activity , structures , and functions .
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct research which may be applied  सीधे  to social policy and welfare , while others focus  primarily  on refining the theoretical understanding  of  social processes .
Subject matter ranges from  the  micro level of individual  एजेंसी  and interaction to the macro level of systems and the social structure .
The traditional focuses of  समाजशास्त्र  include social  स्तरीकरण  , social class , culture  ,  race and ethnicity  ,   लिंग   और   कामुकता  , social mobility ,  धर्म  , secularization , law , and deviance  .
as  all spheres of human activity are affected by  the  interplay  between  social structure and individual agency , sociology has  धीरे   विस्तारित  its  फ़ोकस  to further subjects  ,  such as health , medical , military  और  penal institutions , the Internet , environmental sociology ,  राजनैतिक  economy and the role of social activity in the development of  वैज्ञानिक   ज्ञान  .
The range  of  social scientific methods has also expanded .
सोशल  researchers draw upon a variety of qualitative and quantitative techniques .
The linguistic and cultural turns of the  mid-twentieth  century led to increasingly interpretative , hermeneutic , and philosophic approaches to the analysis of society .
Conversely , recent decades have seen the rise of new analytically , mathematically and computationally rigorous techniques , such as agent-based modelling and social network analysis  .
Sociology should  नहीं  be confused with various general social  अध्ययन   पाठ्यक्रम  which bear little relation to sociological theory or social science  शोध  methodology .
Thunder is the sound caused by lightning  .
depending  on the nature of the lightning and distance of the listener , thunder  can  range from a sharp  ,  loud crack to a  long  , low  rumble  ( brontide ) .
the   अचानक  increase in pressure and temperature from lightning  produces  rapid expansion of the air  surrounding  and within a bolt of lightning  .
in  turn  ,  this expansion of air creates a sonic  शॉक  wave , similar to a  सोनिक   बूम  , which produces the sound of  थंडर  , often referred to as a clap , crack , or peal of thunder .
the  distance of the lightning can  be  calculated by the listener based  on   the  time interval from when the  बिजली  is seen to when  the  sound is heard .
Palma ( , , ) , in full Palma de Mallorca  ,  is the major city and port on the island of Majorca  (  Mallorca ) and capital city of the  autonomous  community of the Balearic Islands in Spain .
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( City  of  Majorca ) and Ciutat ( City ) were used before the War of the Spanish Succession and  हैं  still used by people in Majorca .
However , the official  नाम  was Mallorca , the same as the island .
It is situated on the south coast of the island on the Bay of Palma  .
As of the 2009 census ,  the   जनसांख्यिकी  of the city of Palma proper was 401,270 , and the population of the  संपूर्ण  urban area was 517,285  ,   रैंकिंग   as  the twelfth largest urban area  of  Spain .
Almost half of the total population of Majorca live in Palma .
The Cabrera Archipelago , though widely separated from Palma proper ,  is  administratively considered part of  the  municipality .
Its airport , Son Sant Joan , serves over 22 million passengers  प्रत्येक  year .
The  marivent  Palace was offered by the city to the then Prince  जुआन  Carlos I of Spain .
The royals have since spent their summer holidays in Palma .
Luthor redirects here .
For other uses ,  देखिए  Luther ( disambiguation ) .
Alexander Joseph `` Lex '' Luthor is a fictional character , a supervillain appearing  in  comic books published  by  DC Comics .
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman , and  as  a high-status supervillain , has also come into conflict with Batman and other superheroes in  the   dc  Universe  .
Created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster , the character first appeared in Action Comics # 23  (   अप्रैल  1940 ) .
Luthor is described as ``  a  power-mad , evil scientist '' of high intelligence and incredible  technological  prowess .
Luthor 's  लक्ष्य  typically center on killing Superman , the foremost obstacle to achieving the villain 's megalomaniacal  लक्ष्य  .
Despite periodically wearing a  संचालित  exoskeleton , Luthor has traditionally lacked superpowers or a dual  पहचान   .
The character was originally depicted as a mad scientist who ,  in  the vein of pulp novels , wreaks havoc on the world with his futuristic weaponry .
In his earliest appearances , Luthor is shown with a full head of red hair  .
Despite this , the character later became hairless as the result of an artist 's mistake .
A  1960  story by Jerry  siegel  expanded upon  luthor  's origin and motivations , revealing him to be a childhood friend of Superman 's who lost  उसके  hair when a  आग  destroyed his  प्रयोगशाला  ; Luthor vowed revenge .
Following the 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths , the character  थी  re-imagined as a Machiavellian  उद्योगपति  and white-collar  दण्ड  , even briefly serving  as   अध्यक्ष  of the United States .
In recent years , various writers have revived Luthor  's  mad scientist persona from the 1940s .
The character was ranked as the 8th Greatest  विलेन   by  Wizard on its 100 Greatest Villains of All Time list .
IGN 's list of the Top 100 Comic Book Villains of All Time ranked Luthor as # 4 .
Luthor is also described as a `` megavillain '' by comic book critic Peter Sanderson  ,  one of a few genre-crossing villains whose adventures  लो  place ``  in  a  संसार  in which the ordinary laws of nature are slightly suspended ''  ;  characters such as Professor Moriarty , Count Dracula , Hannibal Lecter , Doctor  यातना  , and Darth Vader ,  भी  fit this description .
Martin Luther King , Jr. Day is a United States federal holiday marking the birthday of  रेव  . Dr. Martin Luther King , Jr .
It is observed on  the  third Monday of January each year  ,   जिससे  is around the time of  किंग  's birthday , January 15 .
The floating holiday is similar to holidays set under  the  Uniform Monday Holiday Act , though  the  act  predated  the establishment of Martin Luther King , Jr. Day by 15 years  .
King was the chief  प्रवक्ता  for nonviolent activism in the civil rights movement , which successfully  protested  racial discrimination in federal and state law .
the  campaign for a federal holiday in King 's honor began soon after his assassination in 1968 .
रोनाल्ड  Reagan signed the holiday into  विधि  in 1983 , and  it   थी   पहला   observed  on January  20  , 1986 .
At first ,  कुछ  states resisted observing the holiday  as  such  ,  giving it alternative names  or  combining it with other  छुट्टियाँ  .
it  was officially observed in all 50 states for the first time in 2000 .
The camera phone solution allows instant sharing of pictures  .
As it 's automatic and instant , the  उपयोक्ता   करता   नहीं  have to use a cable or removable media to connect  to  a personal computer .
A  कैमरा  phone is a  मोबाईल  phone which is able to capture still photographs  (  and usually video ) .
चूंकि  early in the 21st century the majority of mobile phones in use are camera phones .
Most camera phones are simpler than separate digital cameras .
उनके  usual fixed focus lenses and  छोटी  sensors limit their performance in poor lighting .
lacking   a  physical shutter , most have a long shutter lag  .
Flash , where present , is usually weak .
Optical zoom and tripod screws are rare .
Some  भी  lack  a  USB connection , removable memory card , or other way of  transferring  their pictures more quickly than by the phone 's inherent communication feature .
कुछ  of the more  महंगी  camera phones have only a few of these technical disadvantages , which apply most  acutely  in low light conditions and in any case have not inhibited their widespread use .
Most model lines improve in these regards every year or two .
Some  ,  such as the Droid Incredible only have a menu choice to start an application program to activate the camera .
Others  ,   ऐसे  as the BlackBerry Storm 2 , Droid X , Motorola V980 and Nokia 5800 also  have  a separate camera button for quickness and convenience .
Windows Phones can be configured to operate as a camera  भी  if the phone is asleep .
Some camera phones are designed to resemble  पृथक  low-end digital compact cameras  in  appearance and  to  some extent in features and picture quality , and are branded as both mobile phones and cameras , including certain Sony phones .
The  प्रिंसिपल  advantages of  कैमरा  phones are cost and compactness ; indeed for a user who carries a mobile phone anyway , the additional size and cost are negligible .
Smartphones that are camera phones may run mobile applications to add  सामर्थ्य   ऐसे  as geotagging and image stitching .
A few high end phones can use their touch screen to direct their camera to  फ़ोकस  on a particular object in the field of view , giving even an inexperienced user a degree of focus control exceeded only  by  seasoned photographers using  हस्तचालित  focus .
`` Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow ? '' is a 1986 comic book story featuring the DC Comics character of Superman .
Written by Alan Moore with help from long-time , and soon to  be  retiring , Superman editor , Julius Schwartz , the story was  प्रकाशित  in two parts  ,  beginning in Superman  #  423 and ending in Action Comics # 583 , both published in September 1986 .
The story was drawn by long-time artist Curt Swan , in his final major contribution to the Superman titles , and was inked by George Pérez in the issue of Superman and Kurt Schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics .
The story was an imaginary tale which told the final  स्टोरी  of the Silver Age Superman and his long history , which was being rebooted following the events  of  Crisis on Infinite Earths  ,  before his modern introduction in the John Byrne  श्रेणी  ,  the   man  of Steel .
Moore wanted his plot  to  honor the long history of the character and to serve as a complete  निष्कर्ष  to his mythology .
The story is a  फ़्रेम  story set ten years after Superman was last seen , where Lois Lane recounts the tale of  the  end of Superman 's career to a reporter from the Daily Planet .
उसके  story includes numerous violent attacks against Superman by his enemies , the public revelation of his  रहस्य  identity of Clark  केंट  and a number  of   मौतों  of those closest to him .
The  स्टोरी  has been cited as one of the best stories of  the  character of Superman  ,  and critics and  ऑडियंस   अक्सर  choose  it  as one of the most  यादगार   कॉमिक्स  ever published .
It is  प्रयुक्त  as an example of  कैसा  to close the long-time continuity of a comic book character .
The story  's  legacy has endured with similar  कहानियां  written as tributes to it .
the   शीर्षक  is a reference to one of the nicknames of Superman as the Man of Tomorrow  ,   और  was used in the title of another Superman .
the  Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a  mid-engined   ग्रैंड  touring car ,  designed  and developed  by  the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim , France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S .
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal production  car  in the world , with a  शीर्ष  speed of .
The original  संस्करण  has a  शीर्ष  speed of .
It was named Car of the Decade (  2000–2009  ) by the  बीबीसी  television programme Top Gear .
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best Car Driven All Year award in 2005 .
On 6 April 2013 , Bugatti  नियत  the record for the fastest roadster in the world with the Veyron  ग्रैंड  Sport Vitesse , reaching on average a top speed of .
the  Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss , and the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen  ,  with much of the engineering  कार्य   होने  conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber .
A  क्रमांक  of special variants have been produced .
In December 2010 , Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior  और  interiors colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque  's  official website .
The institution of the Eucharist has been a key theme in the depictions of the Last Supper in Christian art , as in this 16th-century Juan de Juanes  पेंटिंग   .
`` At the  पिछला  Supper , on the  रात्रि  he was betrayed , our Savior instituted the Eucharistic sacrifice of his Body  और  Blood . ''
(  catechism  of the Catholic Church 1323 )
Eucharist in the Catholic Church refers to  दोनो  the  जश्न  of  the  Mass ,  कि  is , the Eucharist liturgy , and the bread  और  wine which after the consecration are transubstantiated ( changed  in  substance ) into the body and  रक्त  of Jesus Christ , Lord and God , a  घोषणा  formulated by the Council of Trent with an  anathema  against anyone who denied  इस  .
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional term used in the Roman Catholic Church to refer to the Eucharistic species ( the Body and Blood of Christ ) .
The following is a list of colleges and universities in the U.S.  राज्य  of Louisiana .
A short story is  a  brief work of  साहित्य  , usually written  in  narrative prose  .
उभरते  from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th century ,  the  short story has grown to encompass a body of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization .
At its most prototypical the short story features  a   छोटी  cast of named characters , and focuses on a self-contained incident with the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or mood .
In so doing , short stories make  उपयोग   of  plot  ,  resonance , and other dynamic components to a far greater degree than  is  typical of an  किस्सा  , yet to a far lesser degree than a novel .
While the short story is largely  पृथक  from the novel , authors of both generally draw from a common pool of literary techniques .
Short stories have no set length .
In terms of word count  वहीँ  is no official  demarcation  between an anecdote  ,   a  short story , and a novel .
Rather  ,  the form  's  parameters are given by the rhetorical and practical context in which a given story is  उत्पादित  and considered , so that what constitutes a short story may differ between  जाति  , countries , eras , and commentators .
Like the novel , the short story  's  predominant shape reflects the  मांगे  of the available markets for publication , and the evolution of the form seems closely tied to the evolution  of  the publishing industry and the submission  दिशानिर्देश  of its constituent houses .
The short  स्टोरी  has been considered  दोनो  an apprenticeship form preceding  अधिक  lengthy works , and a crafted form in its own right , collected together in books of similar  लंबाई  , price  ,  and distribution as novels .
Short story writers may define  उनके  works as part of the artistic and personal expression of the form .
They may  भी  attempt to resist categorization by genre and fixed form  .
Area codes in Michigan
Area code  810  is  the  telephone area code serving eastern Michigan .
the  raccoon ( , Procyon lotor ) , sometimes spelled racoon , also known as the common raccoon , North American  raccoon  , northern raccoon and colloquially as coon , is a medium-sized mammal native to North America .
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid family , having a body  लंबाई  of and a body weight of .
Its  grayish  coat mostly consists of dense underfur which insulates against cold weather .
दो  of the raccoon 's most distinctive features are its extremely dexterous front paws and its facial mask , which are themes in  the  mythology of several  देशी  American  जनजातियों  .
Raccoons are noted for their intelligence , with studies showing that  वे  are able  to  remember the solution to tasks for up to three years .
The diet  of  the omnivorous raccoon  ,   जिससे  is usually nocturnal , consists of about 40  %  invertebrates , 33 % plant  भोजन  , and 27  %  vertebrates .
The original habitats of the raccoon are deciduous  और  mixed forests ,  लकिन  due to their adaptability  वे  have extended their range to mountainous areas , coastal marshes  ,  and urban areas , where some homeowners consider them to be pests .
As a result of escapes and deliberate introductions in the mid-20th century , raccoons are now also distributed across the European mainland  ,  the Caucasus region and Japan .
Though previously thought to be solitary , there is now evidence that raccoons engage in gender-specific social  बर्ताव   .
Related females often share a common  क्षेत्रफल  , while  unrelated  males live together in groups of up to four animals to  maintain  their positions against foreign  males  during the mating season ,  और  other potential invaders .
Home  दायरा  sizes vary anywhere from  3  hectares ( 7 acres ) for females in  शहरों  to 50  km2  (  20  sq mi ) for males in prairies .
After a gestation period of  परिचय  65 days , two to five young , known as `` kits '' , are born in spring .
The kits are subsequently raised by their mother until dispersion in late fall .
Although captive raccoons have been known to live over 20 years , their average life expectancy in the wild is only 1.8 to 3.1 years .
In  अनेक  areas , hunting and vehicular injury are the  दो  most common causes of death .
The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 Mw earthquake , with an epicenter near the town of Léogâne ( Ouest Department ) , approximately west of Port-au-Prince , Haiti 's capital .
The earthquake occurred  at  16:53 local time  (  21:53 UTC )  on  Tuesday , 12  जनवरी  2010  .
By 24 January , at least 52 aftershocks measuring 4.5 or greater  था  been recorded  .
An estimated three million people were  प्रभावित  by the quake  .
The highest reliable death count was estimated  at  220,000 .
Haitian government estimates were higher .
The government of Haiti estimated that 250,000 residences  और  30,000 commercial buildings had collapsed or were severely damaged .
the  earthquake caused major damage in Port-au-Prince , Jacmel  और  other settlements in the region .
Many notable landmark buildings were significantly damaged or  नष्ट  , including the Presidential Palace , the National Assembly building , the Port-au-Prince Cathedral , and the main  कारावास  .
among  those killed were Archbishop of Port-au-Prince Joseph Serge Miot , and opposition leader Micha Gaillard .
The headquarters of the United  राष्ट्र  Stabilization Mission in Haiti  (   minustah  ) , located in the capital , collapsed ,  हत्या  many , including the Mission 's Chief  ,  Hédi Annabi .
Many countries responded to  appeals  for humanitarian aid , pledging funds and dispatching rescue and medical teams , engineers  और  support personnel .
Communication systems , air , land , and sea transport facilities , hospitals , and electrical networks had been damaged by the  भूकंप  , which hampered rescue and aid efforts ; confusion over who was in charge , air traffic congestion , and  समस्याएं  with prioritisation of flights further complicated early relief work .
Port-au-Prince  's  morgues were overwhelmed with tens of thousands of  लाशें  .
These had to be buried in mass graves .
As rescues tailed off , supplies , medical care and sanitation became priorities .
Delays in aid distribution led to angry appeals from  सहायता  workers and survivors , and looting and sporadic violence were observed .
on  22 January the United Nations noted that the emergency phase of the  राहत  operation  थी  drawing to a close , and on the following  दिन  the Haitian government  officially  called off  the  search for survivors .
Mister Ed is a fictional talking horse , originally  appearing  in short stories by Walter R. Brooks , and later in an American television situation  कॉमेडी  produced by  filmways  that first aired in syndication from January 5 to July  2  ,  1961  , and then  on  CBS from  अक्तूबर  1 , 1961 to February 6 ,  1966  .
the   सितारों  of the  दिखाएँ  were Mister Ed , a palomino horse who could  ``  talk '' , played by gelding Bamboo Harvester and voiced by former Western star Allan Lane ( who  गई  uncredited for the entire length of the series ) , and his owner  ,  an eccentric and enormously klutzy , yet friendly , architect  नामित  Wilbur Post ( Alan Young  )  .
Much of the program 's humor stemmed from the fact Mister Ed  होता  speak only to Wilbur , as  खूब  as  ed  's notoriety  as  a troublemaker .
Other running jokes centered on Wilbur 's  अक्षर  being a huge klutz and inadvertently causing harm to himself or  अन्य  .
According to  the  show  's   निर्माता   ,  Arthur Lubin , Young was chosen as the lead character because he `` just seemed like  the  sort of guy  a  horse would talk to  ''  .
Lubin , a friend of Mae West ,  scored  a coup by persuading the screen icon to guest star in one episode  .
In the United States  ,  reruns aired on Nick at  नाइट   इससे  March 3 , 1986 , to February 1 , 1993 .
Sister station TV Land also reran the show from 1996–98 and again from 2003-06 .
The series is currently broadcast  प्रत्येक  morning on This  tv  , along with Highway Patrol , and The Patty Duke Show .
It is  भी  currently broadcast on Hallmark Movie Channel .
As of January 1 ,  2011  ,  the  first two seasons  of  the show are available on Hulu .
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology which refers to the `` being caught up '' discussed in 1 Thessalonians  4:17   ,  when the `` dead in Christ  ''  and `` we who are alive and  remain  '' will  be   ``  caught up in the clouds '' to meet  ``  the Lord in the air  ''   .
The term  ``  Rapture '' is used  in  at least two senses .
In the pre-tribulation view , a group of  लोगों  will be left behind on earth after another  समूह  literally leaves `` to meet  the  Lord in the air . ''
This is now the most common use of the term , especially among fundamentalist Christians and in the United States .
The other  ,  older use of the term `` Rapture '' is simply as a synonym for the final resurrection generally , without a belief that a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended  tribulation  period  बाद  the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17 .
This  भेद  is important as some types of Christianity  never  refer to `` the Rapture '' in  धार्मिक   शिक्षा  , but might  उपयोग  the older and more general sense of the word  ``  rapture '' in referring to  कया  happens during the final resurrection .
There are many views among Christians regarding the timing of Christ 's return  (  including  whether   it  will occur in one event  or  two ) , and various views regarding the  गंतव्य  of the  aerial  gathering described in 1 Thessalonians 4 .
Denominations such as Roman Catholics ,  परंपरागत   ईसाइयों  , Lutheran Christians , and Reformed Christians believe in  a  rapture only in the sense of a general final  क़यामत  , when Christ returns a single time .
They do not believe that a  समूह  of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation  काल  after the  कार्यक्रम  of  1  Thessalonians 4:17 .
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was developed in the  1830s  by  जॉन  Nelson Darby and the Plymouth Brethren , and popularized in the United States in the early 20th century by the  चौड़ी   परिसंचरण  of the Scofield Reference Bible .
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born February 6 , 1985 ) is an American professional basketball player with the Brooklyn Nets  .
the  Philistine  शहरों  of Gaza ,  ashdod  , Ashkelon , Ekron , and Gath
The Philistines ( ,  ,  , or ; , Plištim ) , Pleshet or Peleset , were  a  people  जो   as  part of the  समुद्र  Peoples appeared in the southern coastal area of Canaan at the beginning of the Iron  आयु   (  circa 1175  bc  )  ,   सबसे  probably from  the  Aegean region .
According to the  बाइबल  ,  वे  ruled the five city-states ( the `` Philistine Pentapolis '' ) of Gaza , Ashkelon  ,  Ashdod , Ekron and Gath , from  wadi  Gaza in the south to the Yarqon River in the north , but with no fixed border to the east .
the  Bible paints them as the Kingdom of Israel 's most dangerous enemy .
originating  somewhere in the Aegean , their population was around 25,000 in the 12th century BC , rising to  a  peak of 30,000 in the 11th century BC , of  जिससे  the Aegean element  थी  not more than half the total , and perhaps much less .
Nothing  is  known for certain about the original language or languages of the Philistines , however they were not part of the Semitic Canaanite population .
वहीँ  is some limited evidence in favour of the assumption  कि  the Philistines were Indo-European-speakers either from Greece and/or Luwian speakers from the coast of Asia Minor .
Philistine-related words  मिला  in the Bible are not Semitic , and can in some cases , with reservations , be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots .
by  the beginning of the 1st Millennium  bce  they had adopted  the  general Canaanite language of the  प्रदेश  .
the  Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery ( ASVAB ) is a multiple choice test ,  administered  by  the  United States  सैन्य  Entrance  प्रसंस्करण  Command , used to determine qualification  लिये  enlistment in the United States  हथियारबंद  forces .
It is often offered to American high school students when they  हैं  in the 10th ,  11th   और  12th grade , though anyone eligible for enlistment may take it .
Although the test is administered by the military  ,  it is not (  और  never has been ) a requirement that a test-taker  साथ  a qualifying score enlist in the armed  शक्तियां  .
In financial accounting , a balance sheet or statement of financial  स्थिति  is a summary of the financial  balances  of  a  sole proprietorship , a business partnership , a corporation  or   अन्य  business organization , such as an LLC or an LLP .
Assets , liabilities and ownership equity are listed as of a specific date , such as the end of its financial year .
a  balance sheet is often described as a `` snapshot of  a  company 's  वित्तीय  condition '' .
Of the four basic financial statements , the balance  चादर  is  the  only statement which applies to a single point  in  time of a business ' calendar year .
A standard company balance sheet has three parts  :  assets , liabilities and ownership equity .
the  main categories of assets are  प्रायः  listed first , and typically in order  of  liquidity .
Assets are followed by the  देनदारी  .
The difference between the assets and the liabilities is known as equity or the net assets or the net worth or capital of the company and according to the accounting equation  ,  net worth must equal assets minus liabilities .
another  way to look  at  the same equation is that assets equals liabilities plus owner 's equity .
Looking at the equation in this way shows how assets were financed : either by borrowing money ( liability ) or by using the owner 's money  (  owner 's equity ) .
Balance sheets are usually  प्रस्तुत  with assets in one section and  देनदारी  and  जाल  worth in the other section with the two sections `` balancing . ''
A  कारोबार  operating entirely in cash can measure its profits by withdrawing the entire  बैंको  balance at the  समाप्त  of the period , plus any cash in hand .
However , many businesses  हैं  not paid immediately ;  वे  build  up  inventories of  goods  and  वे  acquire buildings and equipment .
in  other words : businesses have assets and so  वे  can not , even if they want to ,  तत्काल  turn these into cash at the end of each period .
प्रायः  , these  व्यवसायों   owe  money to suppliers and to tax authorities , and the proprietors do not withdraw all  उनके  original capital and profits  at  the end of each period .
In other  शब्द  businesses also have liabilities .
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire , commonly known as the .17 HMR , is a  rimfire  rifle cartridge developed by the ammunition company Hornady in 2002 .
It descended from the .22 Magnum by necking down  the  .22  मैग्नम  case to  लो  a  .17   कैलिबर  ( 4.5 mm ) bullet , and it is more costly  to  shoot than traditional .22 caliber  rimfire  cartridges .
Commonly loaded with a  17  grain ( 1.1 g ) bullet ,  it  can deliver  muzzle  velocities in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s  )  .
The Schaumburg Flyers  यहूद  a professional baseball team based in Schaumburg , Illinois , in the United States .
The Flyers were to be a charter member of the North American  लीग  , which is not  संबद्ध  with Major League Baseball , however , the team folded in March 2011 ,  पहले  they began  खेल  in the NAL .
From the 1999 season to the 2010 season , the Flyers  निभाई  their home games  at  Alexian Field ,  निकट  the Elgin O'Hare Expressway .
The team formerly played in Thunder Bay , Ontario , where they were known as the Thunder  खाड़ी  Whiskey Jacks .
The team was  originally  a member of the Northern League  इससे  1993  to  2010 .
On July 27 , 2009 , the Flyers  निभाई  host to Battle of the Sexes II , which pitted the Flyers against the National  प्रो  Fastpitch Softball Champions ,  the  Chicago Bandits  .
निभाई  by  आधिकारिक  softball rules , the game was seen by an overflow  रिकार्ड  crowd of 8,918 , and was won by the Bandits 4-2 .
In 1999  ,  the  flyers  hired their first  मैनेजर  , Ron Kittle  .
Kittle is best known for his playing  दिनों  with the Chicago White Sox , and former Chicago Cubs and  श्वेत   sox   खिलाड़ी  Greg Hibbard was the pitching coach .
During  the  early years  of  the franchise , Kittle did a  श्रेणी  of TV commercials to promote the team , using the gimmick  ``  Ma Kittle . '' where he played  दोनो  himself and his `` Ma . ''
The ads were successful at sparking some initial interest in the team as the Flyers hoped to steal away  प्रशंसक  from the nearby Kane County Cougars .
The ad mimicked  the  highly successful Converse ads where Larry Johnson starred as both himself and `` Gramama . ''
At the end of the 2001 season , however  ,  Kittle resigned from his managerial position , and Jim Boynewicz was hired  to  replace  उसे  .
In 2004 , the Flyers made  it  to the Northern  लीग  Championship Series against the St. Paul Saints .
Despite leading the  five-game  series 2-1 , Schaumburg eventually lost the series .
In Game 5 , Flyers relief pitcher Lyle Prempas allowed a game  जीतना   ग्रैंड  slam by St. Paul infielder Marc Mirizzi  in  the ninth inning .
The Flyers appeared in the Northern League Playoffs four times ( 1999  ,  2003 , 2004 , 2006  )  but never won the championship .
Some famous players  जो  played for the Flyers were former Oakland A 's outfielder  ozzie  Canseco and former Chicago Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith .
Rachel Hannah Weisz  (  / vice / ; born 7 March  1970  ) is  an  English film and theatre actress and  पूर्व  fashion model .
Weisz began her acting career at Trinity Hall , Cambridge in the early 1990s , then started working  in  television , appearing in  इंस्पेक्टर  Morse ,  the   अंग्रेजों  mini-series Scarlet and Black , and the television film Advocates II .
She  बना  her  फिल्मी  début in the film Death Machine ( 1994 ) , but her breakthrough role came in the film Chain Reaction (  1996  ) , leading to a high-profile role as Evelyn Carnahan-O'Connell in the films  the   मम्मी  ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ) .
Other  notable  films  featuring  Weisz are Enemy at the Gates , About a Boy , Constantine , The Fountain and The Constant Gardener , for which  वो  received an Academy Award , a Golden  ग्लोब  and a Screen Actors ' Guild award for her supporting role as Tessa Quayle .
She has been labelled an `` English rose '' since her minor role in Stealing  सौंदर्य  ( 1996 ) .
वाइज़  also works in theatre .
Her stage breakthrough was the 1994 revival of Noël Coward 's play Design for Living , which earned her  the  London Critics Circle Award for the most promising  newcomer  .
Weisz 's performances also include the 1999  donmar  Warehouse production of Tennessee Williams  '  Suddenly , Last Summer  ,  and their 2009 revival of A Streetcar Named Desire .
Her portrayal of Blanche DuBois in the latter play earned her the Critics ' Circle Theatre Award for Best Actress .
She has recently played Evanora in  oz  the Great and Powerful .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or  बस  the Civil War ( see naming )  ,  was  a  civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States  of  America ( the `` Confederacy ''  or  the `` South ''  )  .
The war had its origin  in  the issue of slavery , especially the extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign powers  किया  not intervene .
After four years of  खूनी  combat that  बाएँ  over 600,000 soldiers dead  और  destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the  confederacy  collapsed ,  गुलामी  was abolished ,  और  the difficult Reconstruction process  of   restoring  national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
in   the  1860 presidential election , Republicans , led  by  Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration  on  March 4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his  प्रशासन  would not initiate  सिविल   युद्ध   .
Eight  बाकी  slave states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise , and both sides prepared for war .
the  Confederates assumed that European  देशों  were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they  होता  intervene ;  none  did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by  संघ  troops  in  South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four more  स्लेव  states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled  the  border states and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern  अर्थव्यवस्था  .
the  Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign  into  Maryland ( a  संघ  state ) ended  साथ   confederate  retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention  .
Lincoln  जारी   the  Emancipation  उदघोषणा  , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 ,  रॉबर्ट  E. Lee 's Confederate incursion  उत्तर   ended  at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all  संघ  armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William  T.  Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea , destroying Confederate  अवसंरचना  along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and  जनशक्ति  to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the  overland   अभियान  towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army  विफल  ,  अग्रणी  to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of the earliest true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines ,  shipyards  , banks , transportation and food supplies all  foreshadowed   संसार  War I .
it  remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of  civilian   हताहत  .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old  ,  and 30 percent of all  दक्षिणी  white males aged  18–40  .
Potato bread is a form of bread in which potato replaces a  portion  of  the  regular wheat flour .
It is cooked in a variety of methods , including by  बेकिंग  it on a  hot  griddle or pan  ,  or  in  an oven .
It  may  be leavened or unleavened , and may have a variety of other ingredients baked into it .
The ratio of potato to  गेहूं  flour varies significantly from recipe to recipe , with some recipes having a majority  of  potato , and others having a majority of wheat flour .
Some recipes call for mashed potatoes , with others calling for  निर्जलित  potato flakes .
It is  उपलब्धियाँ  as a commercial product in many countries , with similar variations in ingredients , cooking method  ,  and other variables .
The Pacific Time Zone observes standard time  by  subtracting eight hours from Coordinated Universal Time  (  ) .
the  clock time  in  this zone is based on the mean solar time of the 120th  मध्याह्न   वेस्ट  of the Greenwich Observatory .
During daylight saving time  ,   इसके  time offset is  .
In the United States and  कनाडा  , this time zone is  generically  called Pacific Time ( PT ) .
specifically  , it is Pacific  मानक  Time ( PST ) when  observing  standard time ( winter ) , and Pacific Daylight Time ( PDT )  जब  observing daylight saving  समय  ( summer ) .
Most of  कनाडा  uses  daylight  saving time .
In Mexico the UTC−8 time  मण्डल  is known as  the  Northwest Zone , which is synchronized with the U.S. PDT daylight saving  अनुसूची  .
The largest city in the Pacific Time Zone  is  Los Angeles in California from USA ; the city  's  metropolitan area is the largest  in  the zone .
The zone is one hour ahead of the Alaska Time Zone , one hour behind the Mountain Time Zone  और  three hours  पीछे   the  Eastern Time Zone .
Stereo 8 , commonly known as the eight-track cartridge , eight-track tape , or simply eight-track , is a  चुम्बकीय  tape sound recording technology .
It was popular in the United States from  the  mid-1960s through to the early 1980s , but was relatively unknown  in  many European countries .
it  was , however , very popular in the United Kingdom during this period .
Stereo 8  थी  created in 1964 by a consortium led by Bill Lear of Lear Jet Corporation , along with Ampex ,  घाट  Motor Company , General Motors , Motorola ,  और  RCA Victor Records ( RCA ) .
It was a further development of the similar Stereo-Pak  four-track   कार्ट्रिज  created by  अर्ल  `` Madman '' Muntz .
A later quadraphonic version of the format was announced by RCA in April 1970 and first known as Quad-8 , then later changed to just Q8 .
Ramesses II ( 1303 BC – July or August 1213 BC  ;  Egyptian : , alternatively transcribed as Rameses and Ramses or  )   ,  referred  to  as Ramesses the Great , was  the  third Egyptian pharaoh ( reigned 1279 BC – 1213 BC ) of the Nineteenth dynasty .
He is often regarded as the greatest , most celebrated , and most powerful pharaoh of the Egyptian Empire .
His successors and later  उन्होंने  called him the `` Great Ancestor  .  ''
रामेसेस  II led several military expeditions into the Levant ,  re-asserting  Egyptian control  over   canaan  .
He also led expeditions to the south , into Nubia , commemorated in inscriptions at  beit  el-Wali  और  Gerf Hussein .
At age fourteen , Ramesses was appointed Prince Regent by his  पिता  Seti I .
he  is  believed  to have taken the throne in his late teens and is known to have ruled Egypt from 1279 BC to 1213 BC  लिये  66 years and  2  months , according to both Manetho and Egypt 's contemporary historical records .
He was once said to have lived  to  be 99 years  बूढ़ा  ,  लकिन  it is more likely that he died in his 90th or 91st year .
If he became Pharaoh  in  1279 BC as most Egyptologists today believe , he would  have  assumed  the   सिंहासन  on May 31 , 1279  bc  ,  आधारित  on  उसके  known  accession  date of III Shemu day 27 .
Ramesses II celebrated  an  unprecedented 14 sed festivals (  the  first held after thirty years of a pharaoh 's reign , and then every three years ) during his reign—more than any other pharaoh .
On his death ,  he   थी  buried in a tomb in the Valley of the Kings ; his body was later moved to a royal cache where it was discovered  in  1881 , and is now on display in the Cairo Museum .
The early part of his reign was focused on building cities , temples and monuments .
He established  the  city of  pi-ramesses  in the Nile Delta as his new capital and main base for his campaigns in Syria .
This city was built on  the  remains of the city of  avaris  , the capital of the Hyksos when they took  over  , and was the location of the main Temple of Set .
He is also known as Ozymandias in the Greek sources ,  इससे  a transliteration into Greek of a part of Ramesses 's throne name , , `` Ra 's mighty truth , chosen of Ra '' .
The Texas Rangers are a professional baseball team located in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex , based in Arlington , Texas .
The Rangers franchise is currently a member of the Western Division of Major League Baseball 's American League  .
Since , the Rangers have played in Rangers Ballpark in Arlington in Arlington ,  टेक्सास  .
The team 's name is borrowed from the famous law enforcement agency of the  वही   नाम  .
The franchise  थी  established in 1961  by   the  name  of  the Washington Senators , an  विस्तार   टोली  awarded to Washington , D.C. , after the  नगर  's first  ballclub  , the original Washington Senators , moved to Minnesota and became the Twins .
After the season , the new Senators moved to Arlington , Texas , and debuted  as  the Rangers the following spring .
The Texas Rangers Baseball Club has made six appearances in the MLB postseason ,  सब  following division championships , in 1996 , 1998 , 1999 , 2010 , 2011 and 2012 .
In 2010 , the Rangers advanced past the Division Series for the  पहला  time , defeating the Tampa Bay Rays .
Texas then brought home their first American League Pennant after beating the New York Yankees in six games .
In the 2010 World Series , the franchise 's first ,  the  Rangers  गिरी  to the San Francisco Giants in five games .
Their lone victory made them the first Texas team to win a World Series  खेल  , the Houston Astros having been swept in their 2005 World Series  रूप  .
वे  repeated  as  American League  champions  the following year , then lost the 2011 World Series to the  st.  Louis Cardinals in seven games .
Gaius Julius Caesar ( , July 100 BC – 15 March 44  bc   )  was a Roman general , statesman , Consul and notable author of Latin prose .
He played a critical role in the  कार्यक्रम  that led to the demise of  the  Roman Republic and the rise of the Roman  साम्राज्य  .
In 60 BC , Caesar , Crassus and Pompey formed a political alliance that was to dominate Roman politics for several years  .
Their attempts to amass power through populist tactics were opposed  by  the conservative elite within the Roman  सीनेट  , among them Cato the Younger with the frequent support of Cicero .
Caesar 's conquest of Gaul , completed by 51  bc  , extended  रोम  's territory to the  अंग्रेज़ी  Channel and the Rhine .
Caesar became the first Roman general  to  cross both when he built a bridge across the  राइन  and conducted the first invasion of Britain .
These achievements granted him unmatched military power and threatened to eclipse the standing of Pompey  ,  who had realigned himself with the  सीनेट  after the death of Crassus in 53 BC .
With the Gallic Wars concluded , the Senate ordered Caesar to lay  bas  his military command and return to Rome .
Caesar  refused  , and  चिह्नित   उसके  defiance in 49 BC by crossing the  rubicon  with a legion , leaving his province and illegally  प्रवेश  Roman territory under arms .
Civil war resulted , from which  he  emerged as  the  unrivaled leader of Rome .
After assuming control  of  government , Caesar began a program of social  और  governmental reforms , including the creation of the Julian calendar .
He centralised the bureaucracy of the Republic and was eventually proclaimed `` dictator in  perpetuity   ''  .
But the underlying political conflicts had not been resolved  ,  and on the Ides of March ( 15 March  )  44 BC ,  सीज़र  was assassinated by a group of senators led  by  Marcus Junius Brutus .
A  नई  series of civil wars broke out , and the constitutional government of  the  Republic was never restored .
Caesar 's  अपनाया  heir Octavian , later known as Augustus , rose to sole power ,  और  the era of the  रोमन  Empire began .
Much of Caesar 's life  is  known from his own accounts of his military campaigns , and from other contemporary sources , mainly the letters and speeches of Cicero and the historical writings of Sallust .
the  later biographies of  सीज़र  by Suetonius and Plutarch are also major sources .
Caesar is deemed to be one  of   the  greatest military commanders of history  .
Linguistic map of Nigeria  ,  Cameroon , and Benin .
Sign in English , outside the University of Lagos
There are hundreds of languages spoken in Nigeria .
The major languages are  योरूबा  , Hausa  ,  Igbo , Edo , Fulfulde , Kanuri , and Ibibio .
The official language of  सीरियल  , English , the former colonial language , was chosen  to  facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of  the  country .
English , however ,  remains  an exclusive preserve of the country 's urban elite , and is not widely spoken in rural areas , which comprise three  quarters   of  the countries population .
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity  is  a microcosm of Africa as a whole  ,   encompassing  three major African  भाषाएं  families : Afroasiatic , Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo  .
Nigeria also has several  as-yet  unclassified languages , such as Cen Tuum , which may represent  a  relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current language families .
Daucus carota ( common names include wild carrot , ( UK ) bird  's  nest  ,  bishop 's lace  ,  and Queen Anne  's  lace  (  North America ) ) is a flowering plant in the family Apiaceae , native to temperate  regions  of Europe  ,  southwest Asia  और  naturalised to North America and Australia .
Domesticated  गाजर  are cultivars of  a  subspecies , Daucus carota subsp . sativus .
In the United States , the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed  by  the President of the United States and confirmed by the United States Senate  pursuant  to the  नियुक्ति  Clause in  आलेख  II of the United States Constitution .
in  addition to the Supreme Court of the  संयुक्त  States , whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter , acts of Congress have established 13 courts of  appeals  ( also called `` circuit courts ''  )  with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the  संयुक्त  States ,  और  94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be  categorized   as  a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals  ,  and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are  referred  to sometimes  as  `` Article III judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the  न्यायिक  branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In addition  ,  judges of the Court of International Trade exercise judicial power  pursuant  to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts ,  सहित  magistrate judges and  दिवालियापन  judges , are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however  ,  they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate  ,  and their power  गर्भाशयी  from Article I instead .
See Article I  और  Article III tribunals .
Nelly Kim Furtado ( born December 2 , 1978 ) is a Canadian  सिंगर  , songwriter and  अभिनेत्री  .
She has  बेची  20 million albums worldwide and more 20  लाख  singles , bringing her total sales to over 40  लाख   रिकॉर्ड  around the world .
Furtado first gained fame  साथ  her debut album , Whoa , Nelly !
, which spawned two successful singles  ,  `` I 'm Like a Bird ``  और  `` Turn Off the Light `` . ``
I 'm  जैसे  A Bird  ''  won a 2001 Juno Award for Single of the Year and a 2002  ग्रैमी  Award for  बेहतरीन  Female Pop Vocal Performance .
In 2003 , Furtado  released  Folklore  ,  which produced three  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  singles— ``  powerless  ( Say What You Want )  ``  , `` Try `` and `` Força `` .
Three years later  वो   released  Loose , a worldwide commercial success .
The album spawned four number-one hits : `` Promiscuous `` , `` Maneater `` , `` Say It Right `` and `` All Good Things ( Come to an End ) `` .
After a three-year break  ,  she released her first full-length Spanish album , Mi Plan , and Furtado received a Latin Grammy for Best Female Pop Vocal Album .
In 2012 ,  फ़र्टाडो  's  चौथी  English-language studio album , The Spirit Indestructible was released .
Furtado 's work has earned her numerous awards  और  accolades , including 2 Grammy  पुरस्कार   ,  10 Juno Awards , 3 MuchMusic Video Awards and a star on  कनाडा  's Walk of  कीर्ति  .
Creatures of the Night is the tenth studio album by Kiss .
It is the band 's  पिछला  album for Casablanca  रिकॉर्ड  ,  the  only label the  समूह  had ever  अंकित  for at that point .
The album was dedicated to the memory of Casablanca founder and  जल्दी  Kiss supporter Neil Bogart , who  था  died of cancer during the recording  सत्र  .
It is  भी  the band 's last album recorded  साथ  Ace Frehley credited as an official member ( until 1998 's Psycho Circus ) , and its first album with Vinnie Vincent as the initially uncredited lead  guitarist  ( Vincent  होता   बाद  be credited ,  लकिन  not featured pictorially  on  the cover  ,  of 1985 's reissue of the album ) .
Touch is  a  crucial means of receiving  सूचना  .
इस  photo shows tactile  markings  identifying stairs for visually impaired people .
The somatosensory system is a  विविध  sensory system  comprising  the receptors and  प्रसंस्करण   केंद्रों   to  produce the sensory modalities such as touch , temperature , proprioception ( body position )  ,  and nociception ( pain ) .
The sensory receptors cover the skin and epithelia , skeletal muscles , bones and joints , internal organs , and the cardiovascular system .
While touch is considered  एक   of  the five traditional senses , the impression of touch is formed from several modalities  .
In medicine , the colloquial  पद  `` touch '' is usually  replaced   साथ  `` somatic senses '' to better  प्रतिबिंबित  the variety of mechanisms involved .
Somatic senses are sometimes referred to as  somesthetic  senses , with the understanding that somesthesis includes touch , proprioception and ( depending on usage ) also haptic perception .
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using different receptors : thermoreceptors , nociceptors , mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors .
Transmission of information from the receptors passes via sensory nerves through  tracts  in the spinal cord and into the brain .
Processing primarily  occurs  in the primary somatosensory area in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex  .
The cortical homunculus was devised by Wilder Penfield .
At its simplest , the system  works   जब  activity in a sensory neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus such as  ऊष्मा  ; this signal eventually  गुजरता  to an area  in  the brain uniquely attributed to  कि  area on the body—this allows  the  processed stimulus to be felt at  the  correct location .
the  point-to-point mapping  of  the body surfaces  in  the brain  is   पुकारा  a homunculus and is essential in the creation of a body image .
इस  brain-surface  (  `` cortical  ''   )   मैप  is not immutable , however .
Dramatic shifts  can  occur in response to stroke or injury .
Magnolia is a large genus of about 210  flowering  plant species in the subfamily Magnolioideae of the family Magnoliaceae .
it  is named after French botanist Pierre Magnol .
Magnolia is an ancient genus .
Appearing before bees did , the flowers evolved to encourage pollination  by  beetles .
To avoid damage from pollinating beetles , the carpels of Magnolia flowers are extremely tough .
Fossilised specimens of Magnolia acuminata have  महरूम  found dating to 20  लाख  years ago , and of plants identifiably belonging to the Magnoliaceae dating to 95 million  सालो  ago .
Another aspect of  magnolias  that is considered to represent an ancestral state is that the flower bud  is   enclosed  in a bract rather than in sepals ; the perianth parts are undifferentiated and called tepals rather than distinct sepals and petals .
Magnolia shares the  tepal  characteristic with several other flowering plants near the base of  the  flowering plant lineage  ऐसे  as Amborella  और  Nymphaea ( as well as with many more recently  निकला   पौधे  such as Lilium ) .
The natural range of Magnolia species is a disjunct distribution , with a main  केन्द्र  in east and southeast Asia and a secondary centre in eastern  उत्तर  America  ,  Central America , the West Indies  ,  and some species in South America .
thumb
`` White Christmas '' is  an  Irving Berlin  सोंग  reminiscing about an old-fashioned Christmas setting .
According to the Guinness Book of World Records , the version sung  by  Bing Crosby is the  best-selling  single of all time ,  साथ  estimated sales in excess of 50 million copies worldwide .
Accounts vary as to when  और  where  बर्लिन  wrote the song .
One story is that  he  wrote it in 1940 , in warm La Quinta , California , while staying at the La Quinta Hotel , a frequent Hollywood retreat also favored by writer-producer Frank  capra  , although the Arizona Biltmore also claims the song was written there .
He often stayed up all night writing — he  बताई  his secretary , `` Grab your pen and take down  इस  song .
I just wrote the best song  i  've ever written  —  heck , I just  लिखा  the best song that anybody 's ever  लिखा  ! ''
cross-country  skiing ( or XC skiing ) is a form of ski touring  in   जिससे  participants propel themselves across snow-covered terrain using skis and poles .
The activity is popular in  अनेक  places with large snowfields , primarily Northern Europe , Canada , and Alaska  .
Cross-country skiing is part  of  the Nordic  स्कीइंग  sport family , which includes ski jumping , Nordic combined ( cross-country skiing and ski  कूद  ) , Biathlon ( skiing and  राइफल  marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( which includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ) .
Cross-country skiing is the modern style  of  skiing that  सबसे  resembles prehistoric skiing , particularly when done in the backcountry .
It is also related to Telemark skiing  .
A use tax  in  United States is  पूरक  to sales  कर  which  अर्थात्  , if you buy a Taxable product/services without paying any  बिक्री  tax to vendor , you  owe   उपयोग  tax .
You must self assess use tax and pay it directly to the state where the  उत्पाद  were consumed or services  यहूद  rendered .
Use tax typically  is  a tax on consumption but if  तुम  buy an item ( without paying sales tax ) and  स्टोर  it in your warehouse initially , use tax applies to that location where goods were stored .
Later on when the  फाइनल  consumption takes place at some other  स्थान  ,  तुम  are required to pay the differential of  कर  rate to the jurisdiction of ultimate place of consumption .
This really means  कि  you  do  n't have to pay both Sales Tax as well as Use Tax on one transaction .
it  is only  एक  or the other that you are required to pay on purchase of taxable products/services .
if  vendor does n't charge any Sales tax on its invoice then it is the obligation of  the  buyer to self assess Use tax and  अदा  it to the appropriate Jurisdication .
Use Tax is  generally  charged at the same  कर  rate of Sales Tax but in some states the tax rate is  अलग  .
Use tax is also termed as `` Consumption  कर  '' or `` Consumer Use Tax '' .
a  use tax is a type  of  excise tax levied in the United  राज्य  by numerous state governments .
It is assessed upon tangible  निजी  property purchased by  a  resident of the assessing state for use , storage , or consumption in that state ( not  लिये  resale ) , regardless of where the purchase took place .
If  a  resident of a state makes  a  purchase within his home state , full sales tax is paid  at  the time of the transaction .
The use tax  applies  when a resident of the  assessing  state purchases an item that is not  विषय  to his home state 's sales tax .
Usually , this is due to out-of-state purchases , as  खूब  as ordering items through the mail , by phone , or  over  the  अंतरजाल  from other states .
The use tax  is  typically assessed at the  वही  rate as the sales tax that would have been owed ( if any ) had  the  same goods been purchased  in  the state of residence .
For example ,  a  resident of Massachusetts , with a 6.25 % `` sales and use tax '' on certain goods and  सेवाएं  , purchases non-exempt goods or services in New Hampshire for use ,  भंडार  or other  खपत  in Massachusetts .
Under New Hampshire law , the New Hampshire vendor collects no sales taxes on the goods , but the Massachusetts purchaser/user must  स्टिल  pay 6.25  %  of the sales price  सीधे  to the Department of Revenue in Massachusetts as a  उपयोग  tax .
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does collect  बिक्री  tax for  ऐसे  goods at  समय  of purchase , whatever taxes were paid  by  the purchaser to that state can be deducted ( as a tax credit  )  from the 6.25 %  owed  for subsequent use , storage or  खपत  in Massachusetts  .
With few exceptions , no state 's vendors will charge the native  राज्य  's sales tax on  goods  shipped out of  राज्य  ,  अर्थ  all goods ordered from out-of-state are essentially free  of  sales tax .
The purchaser  is  therefore required to declare and  अदा  the use tax to his home state on these ordered goods .
the  assessing jurisdiction may make the use tax payable annually , but some states require a monthly payment .
For example , where a Vermont resident has not paid at least 6 % sales tax on property brought in for use  in  the state , Vermont law requires filing a tax return ( Form SU-452  और  payment ) by  the   20th  day of the month following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 late fee  ,  a 5 % penalty per month  ,  to a maximum of 25 % , plus statutory interest  on  the unpaid tax and penalties .
Typical exemptions include purchases by charitable non-profit organizations or  सरकारी   एजेंसियों  , purchases for resale in commerce ,  और  purchases via `` casual  बिक्री  '' by individuals not  in  the ordinary course of  कारोबार  .
Also note that  वहीँ  are thousands of tax  jurisdictions  in  the  U.S. and many have ever-changing lists of specific types of goods and services that are  नहीं  taxable .
As an illustration of  the  complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires payment  of  tax on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) software purchased  और  downloaded over the Internet for installation and use in Massachusetts  ,  regardless of where it  originates  .
However , the actual use of the same  तन्त्र  downloaded by  a  Massachusetts resident to a server  in  another state remains a non-taxed `` service '' .
In contrast , Arkansas generally does not tax anything delivered over the Internet ( such as downloaded software or music ) , except  voip  which is specifically defined as taxable `` telecommunications services '' .
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` delivered  thru  a  ठोस  medium '' ( i.e. , on disk ) in Arkansas is taxable even if ordered online , except `` custom software for a particular customer '' which is  non-taxable  `` programming services '' even if delivered on a disk .
In most cases  ,  this  जटिलता   is  part of the underlying sales tax laws ; but while a brick-and-mortar store has to deal  साथ  only the sales tax laws of its own location ,  रिमोट  sellers have to  सौदे  with the use tax laws of many jurisdictions—up to every US state and locality that  प्रकृती  them , if the company has a presence or  ``  nexus '' in every state ( as large ``  brick-and-mortar  '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ) .
In medicine , pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an  बढ़ाएँ  of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery  ,  pulmonary vein , or pulmonary capillaries , together known as the lung vasculature , leading to shortness of breath  ,  dizziness , fainting , and other symptoms  ,  all of which are exacerbated by exertion .
pulmonary  hypertension can be  a  severe disease with a markedly decreased exercise tolerance and heart failure .
It  थी  first identified by Dr. Ernst von Romberg in 1891 .
According to the most recent classification , it can be one of  पाँच  different types : arterial , venous  ,  hypoxic ,  thromboembolic  or miscellaneous .
सही
right
Sanuk , a division of Deckers Outdoor Corporation , is a  जूते  brand based in Southern California .
Sanuk , the Thai word for fun , was founded by Southern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   देशी  Jeff Kelley when he started making  चप्पल  out of indoor-outdoor carpet .
The first product  निर्मित  was green  carpeted   और  entitled the `` Fur Real '' after one shop owner asked if the novelty sandal was  ``  For Real . ''
The Fur Real  पहला  became a runaway hit through boutique stores and  नहीं  the intended  लहरे   दुकानें  .
the  novelty act was followed up  by  a sandal  लपेटा  in wire mesh , a leopard print version , and styles made out of a poncho material in  a  variety of colors .
Sanuk has grown to include style options for men , women and youth and is distributed across the  संयुक्त  States and in over 50 countries throughout  यूरोपीय   ,  Asia , South America  और  Australia .
Sanuk centers itself around a positive lifestyle advocating the  स्लोगन  , `` Smile , Pass it on ! `` .
In computer science , array programming languages ( also known as vector or  multidimensional  languages )  generalize  operations on scalars to apply transparently to  सदिश  ,  matrices  , and higher dimensional arrays .
Array programming  primitives   concisely  express broad ideas about data manipulation .
The level of conciseness can be dramatic  in   निश्चित  cases : it is not  uncommon  to find array programming  भाषा  one-liners that require more than a couple of pages of Java code .
APL , designed by Ken Iverson ,  थी  the first programming language to provide array programming capabilities .
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his  seminal  book `` A  प्रोग्रामिंग  Language  ''  and not to arrays per se . Iverson 's  योगदान  to rigor and clarity was probably more important than the simple extension of dimensions to functions .
In the United States an annuity contract is created when an insured party , usually an individual , pays a  जीवन  insurance company a single premium that will later be distributed back to the insured party over  समय  .
Annuity contracts traditionally provide a guaranteed distribution of income over time , such as via fixed payments , until the death of  the  person or persons named in the contract or until a  फाइनल  date , whichever comes first .
However , the majority of modern annuity customers use  annuities  only to accumulate funds free of income and capital  gains  taxes and to later  लो  lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature .
President  बराक   ओबामा  .
Barack Obama with  उसके   पहला  Supreme Court nominee , Sonia Sotomayor .
Following is a list of all United States federal judges appointed by President Barack Obama during his presidency .
As of April 30 , 2013 , 187 Obama nominees to Article III judgeships have been confirmed by the United States Senate , namely two Justices to the Supreme Court  of  the United  राज्य  , 35 judges to the United States courts of appeals and  150  judges to the United States district courts .
25  further nominations are currently awaiting Senate action .
There are currently 16 vacancies  on  the  संयुक्त  States Courts of Appeals , 67 vacancies on the United States district  न्यायालयों  and 22 additional federal judiciary vacancies that are anticipated to occur before the end of  ओबामा  's second term .
Obama has not made any recess appointments to the federal courts .
Obama  रै   बना  two nominations to the United States Court of International Trade , an Article III tribunal .
Obama  भी  designated sitting judge Emily C. Hewitt of the United States Court of Federal Claims , an Article I court , to be Chief Judge of that court .
This is a list of airports in Mexico , sorted by location .
Mexico has about 1,834 airports , ranking 2nd in number of airports  in  North America ,  और  3rd in the world .
Only major National and International Airports are shown  .
Agency debt also known as an Agency bond is a security , usually a bond , issued by a U.S. government-sponsored agency .
the  offerings of these agencies are  समर्थित  but not guaranteed by the  us  government since the agencies are private entities .
Some  prominent  issuers of these securities are Student  ऋण  Marketing Association ( Sallie Mae  )  , Federal National Mortgage Association ( Fannie Mae ) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac ) .
Agency securities are usually exempt from state and local taxes , but not federal tax .
Agency debt is also called an agency security .
The Susquehanna Steam Electric  स्टेशन  , a boiling water reactor .
The  रिएक्टरों   हैं  located inside the rectangular containment buildings towards the front  of   the  cooling towers .
Three nuclear-powered American warships , ( top to bottom ) nuclear cruisers USS Bainbridge  और  USS Long Beach with USS  एंटरप्राइज़  the first nuclear-powered  वायुयान  carrier  in  1964 .
Crew members are spelling out Einstein 's mass-energy equivalence formula E  =  mc2 on the  उड़ान   डेक  .
the  Russian  nuclear-powered  icebreaker NS Yamal on a 1994 joint expedition with the NSF .
Nuclear power is the use of  sustained  nuclear fission to generate heat and electricity .
Nuclear power plants provided  परिचय   5.7  % of  the  world  's  energy and 13 % of the world 's electricity , in 2012 .
In 2013 , the IAEA report that there are 437 operational nuclear power reactors ( although not  सब  are producing electricity ) , in 31 countries .
In addition , there are approximately 140 naval vessels using nuclear propulsion in operation  ,  powered by some 180 reactors .
There  is  an ongoing debate about the use of nuclear energy .
Proponents , such as the World Nuclear Association , the IAEA and Environmentalists for Nuclear Energy contend that nuclear power  is   a  sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions .
Opponents , such as Greenpeace International and NIRS , believe that nuclear power poses many threats  to  people and the environment .
Nuclear power plant accidents include the Chernobyl disaster ( 1986 ) , Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster ( 2011 ) , and the Three Mile  द्वीप  accident ( 1979 ) .
वहीँ  have also been some  nuclear-powered  submarine mishaps .
Research into safety improvements is continuing and nuclear fusion , believed to be safer  ,  may be used in the future .
As of 2012 , according to the IAEA , worldwide there were 68 civil nuclear power reactors under construction in 15 countries  .
In  the  US the  पंक्तियां  of almost half its reactors have been  विस्तारित  to 60 years , and plans to build another dozen are under serious consideration .
however  , Japan 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster prompted a  पुनर्विचार  of  नाभिकीय  energy policy  in  many countries  .
Germany decided to close all its reactors by 2022 ,  और  Italy has banned nuclear power .
Following Fukushima , the International Energy Agency halved  इसके  estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity to be built by 2035 .
Photograph of the Berlin Wall  लिया  from the West side .
The Wall was built in 1961 to prevent  ईस्ट  Germans from fleeing from Communism .
It  थी  an iconic symbol  of  the Cold War  और  its fall in 1989 marked the end of  the  War .
The Cold War  ,   प्रायः  dated from 1947  to  1991 , was a  sustained  state of political and  सैन्य  tension between powers in the Western  bloc  , dominated by the United States with NATO among  इसके  allies , and powers in the Eastern Bloc , dominated by the Soviet Union along with the  वॉरसॉ  Pact .
This began after the success of their temporary wartime alliance against Nazi Germany , leaving the USSR  और   the  US as two superpowers with profound economic and political differences .
A  न्यूट्रल   गुट  arose with the Non-Aligned Movement founded by Egypt , India  ,  and Yugoslavia  ;  this faction rejected association with  either  the US-led West or  the  Soviet-led East .
The Cold War  थी  so named  क्युकी   the  two major  powers—each  possessing nuclear weapons and thereby threatened with mutual  assured  destruction —never met in direct military combat  .
Instead , in their struggle for  वैश्विक  influence they engaged in ongoing psychological warfare and in regular indirect confrontations through proxy  युद्धों   .
Cycles of relative calm would be followed by high tension , which could  have  led to world war .
the  tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ) , the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ) , the  स्वेज  Crisis ( 1956 ) , the Berlin Crisis of 1961 , the Cuban missile crisis ( 1962 ) , the Vietnam War ( 1959–1975 ) , the Yom Kippur War ( 1973 ) ,  the  Soviet war in Afghanistan ( 1979–1989 ) , the Soviet downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ) , and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ) .
The conflict was expressed through military coalitions , strategic conventional force deployments  ,  extensive aid to client states , espionage , massive propaganda campaigns , conventional  और  nuclear  बाहें  races , appeals  to  neutral nations  ,  rivalry at sports events ( in particular the Olympics ) , and technological competitions such as the Space Race .
The US and USSR became involved in political and  सैन्य  conflicts in the  तीसरा  World countries of  लैटिन  America , Africa , the Middle East , and  southeast  Asia .
to  alleviate the risk of a potential nuclear war , both sides sought relief of political tensions through  détente  in the  1970s   .
In the 1980s , the United States increased diplomatic ,  सैन्य  , and economic pressures on the Soviet Union , at a time when the communist state was already suffering from economic stagnation .
In the mid-1980s , the new Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev introduced the liberalizing  reforms  of perestroika ( `` reorganization ''  ,  1987 ) and glasnost ( ``  खुलेपन  '' , ca . 1985 ) .
Pressures for national independence grew stronger in Eastern  यूरोपीय  , especially Poland .
They reached a breaking point when Gorbachev  refused  to use Soviet troops to support the faltering government of East Germany in late 1989 .
Within weeks all the satellite states broke free from  मास्को  in a peaceful wave of revolutions ( there was some violence in Romania )  .
The pressures escalated inside the Soviet  संघ  , where Communism fell and the USSR was formally dissolved in  लेट  1991 .
the   संयुक्त   राज्य  remained  as  the world  's  only superpower .
The Cold War  और  its events  have  left a significant legacy , and it is  प्रायः  referred to in popular culture , especially in  मीडिया  featuring themes of espionage  और  the  threat  of nuclear warfare .
Pikes  शिखर  State Park is a state park of Iowa , USA , featuring a bluff overlooking the Upper Mississippi River opposite the confluence of the Wisconsin River .
The park is operated by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources .
it  is nearly a thousand acres (  4  km2 ) in extent .
The nearest city is  मैकग्रेगर  , Iowa .
Iowa Highway 76 approximately defines its northern boundary  .
It gets its name from the Iowa incarnation of Pikes Peak , a particularly high point overlooking the gorge of  the  Upper Mississippi , and like Pikes Peak in Colorado , is named for Zebulon Pike  .
There are hiking trails , campgrounds and RV facilities .
Mountain bikes  हैं  permitted in certain portions of the park .
aside  from recreational development , the land in the park was never  साफ  and to a large extent remains as it was before the advent of  श्वेत  settlement  .
It is part of a larger complex of parks , reserves and refuges which  शामिल  Effigy Mounds National Monument , the various components of the Yellow River State Forest , the enormous Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife  और  Fish Refuge and much smaller , much less well known Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge .
The Northeast  आयोवा   विरासत  Trail System is undergoing development , and will connect elements of these sites .
Zac Brown Band is an American country/folk band based in  अटलांटा  , Georgia .
The lineup consists of  zac  Brown ( lead vocals , guitar ) , Jimmy  de  Martini ( fiddle , vocals ) , John Driskell  हॉपकिंस  ( bass guitar , vocals ) , Coy  bowles   (  guitar , keyboards ) , Chris Fryar  (  drums ) ,  मिट्टी  Cook ( guitar , keyboards , mandolin , steel guitar , vocals ) , and  डेनियल  de los Reyes ( percussion ) .
The  बैंड  has toured throughout the United States , including a slot on  the  2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo Music Festival .
They have also recorded five studio albums , and charted nine Number One  singles  on the Billboard country charts : `` Chicken Fried  ``  , `` Toes  ``  , `` Highway 20 Ride `` , `` Free `` , `` As She 's Walking Away `` , `` Colder Weather `` , `` Knee Deep `` , `` Keep Me In Mind `` , and  ``  Goodbye in Her  आँखें  `` in addition to the singles `` Whatever It Is `` and `` No Hurry ``  ,  which peaked at number 2 on the same chart .
Talk radio is a radio format containing discussion about  topical  issues .
Most shows are regularly  hosted  by a single individual , and often  विशेषता  interviews with a number of different guests .
Talk radio typically  शामिल  an element of listener participation , usually by broadcasting live conversations between the host and  श्रोता  who `` call in '' ( usually via  टेलीफोन  ) to the show .
Listener contributions are usually screened by a show 's producer ( s ) in order to maximize audience interest and , in the case of commercial talk  रेडियो  , attract advertisers .
Generally  ,  the shows are organized into segments , each separated by a pause for  विज्ञापन  ; however , in public or non-commercial radio , music is sometimes played in  प्लेस  of commercials to separate the program segments .
विसंगतियाँ  of talk  रेडियो  include conservative talk , hot  बात  , liberal talk and sports  बात  .
While talk radio has historically been associated with AM/FM , starting around 2005  the  technology for Internet-based talk-radio shows became  लागत  effective in the form of  podcasts  .
Now , it is possible for an individual  to   उपयोग  a variety of services to host an Internet-based talk-radio show without carriage  by  a traditional radio station .
In addition TV  प्रोग्रामिंग  from  बात  and news outlets such as BBC , CNN , Bloomberg and Fox are now often available expanding the world of  बात  radio further .
Talk radio listening is now enjoyed not only on radios ,  लकिन  a wide variety of  अन्य  devices and services including PCs using iTunes  ,  station directories such as Tunein , show directory smartphones with apps  ऐसे  as  stitcher  .
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in  the  family Hippidae ,  containing  the following species:
Hippa adactyla Fabricius , 1787
Hippa admirabilis ( Thallwitz , 1892  )
Hippa alcimede ( De  man  , 1902 )
Hippa  australis   hale  , 1927
Hippa carcineutes Holthuis & Manning  ,   1970
hippa   celaeno  ( de Man , 1896 )
Hippa granulatus ( Borradaile , 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes ( Dana , 1852 )
Hippa indica Haig , Murugan & Balakrishnan Nair , 1986
Hippa marmorata ( Hombron & Jacquinot  ,  1846 )
hippa  ovalis (  A.  Milne-Edwards , 1862 )
Hippa picta  (  Heller , 1861 )
Hippa strigillata ( Stimpson ,  1860  )
Hippa testudinaria ( Herbst , 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons ( Miers  ,  1878 )
It is closely related to the genus  emerita  , and species have often been transferred between the two genera .
जकार्ता  (  )  ,  officially  known as the Special Capital Region of Jakarta ( ) , is the capital  और  largest city of Indonesia .
स्तिथ  on the northwest  coast  of  जावा   ,  Jakarta is the country 's economic , cultural and political centre , and with a population of 10,187,595 as of November 2011 , it is the most  populous  city  in   इंडोनेशिया  and in Southeast Asia , and is the thirteenth most populated  नगर   in  the world .
The official metropolitan area , known as Jabodetabek  (  a name formed by combining the initial syllables of Jakarta ,  bogor  , Depok , Tangerang and Bekasi ) , is the second largest in the world , yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue  परे  it .
Jakarta  is  listed  as   a  global city in the 2008 Globalization  और  World Cities  पढ़ाई  Group and Network ( GaWC  )  research .
and has an area of  .
This area has population of  खूब  over 28 million , making it one of the world 's  largest  conurbations in terms of number of inhabitants .
In 2011 , Jakarta ranked 17th among the  संसार  's 200 largest cities , a jump from its 2007 ranking of 171  .
Jakarta has grown more rapidly than Kuala Lumpur , Beijing and Bangkok  .
Established in the fourth century ,  the  city became an important trading port for the Kingdom of Sunda .
It was the de facto capital of the Dutch  ईस्ट  Indies  (  when it was known as Batavia ) and has continued as the capital of Indonesia since  the  country 's independence was declared  in   1945  .
The city is the seat of  the  ASEAN Secretariat .
Jakarta is served by the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport , Halim Perdanakusuma International Airport ,  और  Tanjung Priok Harbour ; it is connected by several intercity and commuter railways , and served by  अनेक  bus lines  कार्यशील  on reserved busways  .
A typical home air conditioning window unit .
Air conditioning is the process of altering the properties of air (  primarily   तापमान  and humidity ) to more favourable conditions .
More  generally  , air conditioning can refer to any form of technological cooling , heating , ventilation , or disinfection that modifies the condition of  एयर  .
An air conditioner ( often referred to as air con , AC or A/C , and not to  be   उलझन  with the abbreviation for alternating current ) is a major or home appliance , system , or mechanism designed to change  the   एयर  temperature and humidity within an area ( used for cooling and  sometimes  heating depending  on  the air properties at a given  समय  ) .
The cooling is typically done using a simple refrigeration cycle , but  sometimes  evaporation is used  ,  commonly for comfort cooling in buildings and motor vehicles .
In construction , a complete system of heating , ventilation and air conditioning is referred  to  as `` HVAC `` .
`` 6 Foot 7 Foot '' ( also styled as `` 6'7  ''  ) is a song  by  American rapper  लील   वेन  featuring label mate , Cory Gunz  .
It is taken from his ninth studio album , Tha Carter IV ( 2011 ) .
It was officially released on iTunes on December 16 , 2010 .
it  was produced by `` A Milli `` producer Bangladesh  .
The song samples  ``  Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) `` by Harry Belafonte .
DC Talk  (  styled as dc Talk ) , is a  ग्रैमी   -winning  Christian rap trio .
The group was formed in Lynchburg  ,  Virginia in 1987 by Toby McKeehan , Michael Tait , and Kevin Max Smith .
They  have  released five major studio albums together : DC Talk ( 1989 ) , Nu Thang ( 1990 )  ,  Free at  पिछला   (  1992 )  ,  Jesus Freak ( 1995 ) , and Supernatural ( 1998  )  .
In 2002 , the Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian Music called DC Talk `` the most popular overtly Christian act of all time .  ''
In 2000 , the group released an EP titled Solo which contained two  सोलो   गीतों   इससे  each member .
Since that time , DC Talk has been on an indefinite hiatus , and the three band members have each led solo careers .
They have performed and recorded  व्यक्तिगत  songs together several times during the 2000s ,  हालांकि  the group  never  officially reunited or disbanded .
The group 's musical style evolved significantly throughout their career .
Their first two releases , DC Talk and Nu Thang , were of the hip hop  विधा  .
DC Talk 's third album , Free at Last , also mainly took influence from the hip hop  स्टाइल  , although their music began taking on a  चट्टान  sound .
The trio 's last two  एल्बम  , Jesus Freak and Supernatural , were  predominantly  pop rock .
The Bible is a compilation  of  many shorter books written at different times and later assembled into the  biblical  canon .
All but the shortest of these books have been divided into  अध्याय  , generally a page or so in length ,  चूंकि  the early  13th  century .
Since  the  mid-16th century , each chapter  रै  been  further  divided into `` verses '' of a few short lines  or  sentences .
sometimes  a sentence spans more than one verse , as in the case of , and sometimes there is more than one sentence in a single verse , as in the case of .
As the chapter and verse divisions were  नहीं  part of the original texts , they form part of the paratext of the Bible .
the  Jewish divisions  of  the Hebrew text differ at various points from those used by Christians .
For instance , in Jewish tradition , the ascriptions to many Psalms are regarded as independent verses  ,  making 116 more verses , whereas the established Christian practice is to count and number each Psalm ascription  साथ  with the  पहला  verse following it .
Some chapter divisions also occur in different places , e.g . in Hebrew Bibles is numbered as in Christian translations .
An index ( plural : indexes ) is a list of words or phrases  (  'headings ' ) and associated pointers ( 'locators ' ) to where useful material relating to that  heading  can be found in a document .
In a traditional  back-of-the-book  index  the  headings  होगा  include  names  of people , places and events , and concepts selected by a person as  होने  relevant  और  of interest  to  a  संभावित  reader of the book .
The pointers are typically page numbers , paragraph numbers or section numbers .
In a  पुस्तकालयों  catalog the words are authors , titles  ,  subject headings , etc. , and the pointers are  कॉल  numbers .
अंतरजाल  search engines , such as Google , and full text searching help  provide  access  to  information  लकिन  are not as selective as an  अनुक्रमणिका   ,  as they  provide  non-relevant  कड़ी  , and may miss relevant information if it is not phrased in exactly the way they expect .
in  United States financial regulation , a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a report  बना  by a financial institution to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ( FinCEN  )  , an agency of the United  राज्य  Department  of  the Treasury , regarding suspicious or potentially suspicious activity .
Facebook  on  the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is  an  online social  नेटवर्किंग  service , whose  नाम  stems from the colloquial name for the book given to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to  सहायता  students get to know each other .
It  थी  founded  in   फ़रवरी  2004 by Mark  zuckerberg  with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes .
The  जालस्थल  's membership was  initially  limited by the founders to Harvard students , but was expanded to other colleges in the Boston area , the Ivy League , and Stanford University .
It gradually added support for students at various  अन्य  universities before opening to high school students , and eventually to  anyone  aged 13  और  over .
Facebook now allows any users who  घोषित  themselves to be  at  least 13 years old to become registered users of the site .
उपयोक्ता   जरूर  register before using  the  site , after which they may create a personal profile , add other  उपयोक्ता  as friends , and exchange messages , including automatic notifications when they  अद्यतन   उनके   प्रोफ़ाइल  .
Additionally , users may join common-interest user groups , organized by workplace , school or college , or other characteristics , and categorize their friends into  सूचियाँ  such as `` People From Work ''  or  `` Close Friends '' .
As of September 2012 , Facebook has over one billion active users .
According to a  may  2011 Consumer Reports survey , there are 7.5 million children under 13 with accounts and 5  लाख  under 10 , violating the site 's terms of service .
In May  2005  , Accel partners invested  $  12.7 million  in  Facebook , and Jim Breyer added  $  1 million of his own money to  the  pot  .
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most used social networking service by worldwide monthly active users .
Entertainment Weekly  शामिल  the site on its  end-of-the-decade   ``  best-of  ''  list , saying , `` How on earth did we stalk  हमारी  exes , remember our co-workers ' birthdays , bug our friends , and play a rousing game  of  Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics  ,   ऐसे   as  Facebook Detox , state that  फेसबुक  has turned into a national obsession in the United States ,  resulting  in  विशाल  amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism .
Quantcast  estimates   फेसबुक  has 138.9 million monthly unique U.S.  विज़िटर  in May 2011  .
According to  सोशल  Media  आज  , in April 2010 an estimated  41.6  % ( 129.5 million ) of  the  U.S. population had  a  Facebook account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market growth started to stall  in   कुछ  regions , with the  साईट   खोने  7 million active users  in  the United States and Canada in May 2011  .
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering on February 1 , 2012 , and  थी  headquartered in Menlo Park , California .
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the public and trading on the NASDAQ on May 18 , 2012 .
सल्फोनेमाइड   कार्यात्मक  group
hydrochlorothiazide  is a sulfonamide and a thiazide .
Furosemide is a sulfonamide , but not a thiazide .
Sulfonamide or  sulphonamide  is the basis of  अनेक  groups of drugs .
The original antibacterial sulfonamides ( sometimes called sulfa drugs or sulpha drugs ) are synthetic antimicrobial agents that contain the sulfonamide group .
Some sulfonamides are also devoid of antibacterial activity , e.g. , the  anticonvulsant  sultiame .
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics are  नए  drug groups based on the antibacterial sulfonamides .
Sulfa allergies are common ,  hence  medications containing sulfonamides are prescribed carefully .
It is important to  मेक  a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing drugs and additives , such as sulfates and  sulfites  , which are  chemically  unrelated to the sulfonamide group , and do not cause the same hypersensitivity reactions seen in the sulfonamides .
This is a list of characters from  जार्ज  Lopez .
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser  cygnoides  ) are domesticated grey geese ( either Greylag Geese or Swan Geese ) kept as poultry for their meat  ,  eggs , and down feathers since ancient times .
30 Seconds to Mars is an American rock band from Los Angeles , formed in 1998 .
Since 2007 , the band has consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals , rhythm guitar , songwriter ) ,  शैनन  Leto (  ड्रम  , percussion ) and Tomo Miličević ( lead guitar , keyboards ) .
Following the departure of Matt Wachter ( now of Angels & Airwaves ) in 2007 , Tim Kelleher became the  bassist  for the group , performing  सजीव  only with both Jared  और  Miličević recording bass for  स्टुडियो  recordings , while Braxton Olita ( keyboards  )  was added  to  the touring lineup in 2009  .
Previously , the group  भी   प्रदर्शित  guitarists Solon Bixler ( now of Great Northern ) and Kevin  ड्रेक  ( now of Polaroid  चुंबन  ) .
to  date , 30 Seconds to Mars have  released  three studio albums – 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2002 ) , A Beautiful Lie ( 2005 ) ,  इस  Is War ( 2009 ) and three  विस्तारित  plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ) , To  the  Edge of the Earth ( 2008  )  , and MTV  unplugged  : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011  )  .
30 Seconds to Mars ' music has been associated mostly with neo-prog , progressive metal  और  post-grunge , but they have also included emo , screamo , space rock and synthrock into their music .
They have been compared to Pink  floyd  ( who were an influence on  उनके  work ) and Tool because of their use of philosophical and spiritual lyrics , concept albums and their use of experimental music .
A Christmas Story is a 1983 American Christmas comedy film based on the short stories and semi-fictional anecdotes of  लेखक  and raconteur Jean Shepherd , based on his book In God We Trust , All Others Pay Cash , with  कुछ  elements  निकला  from Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories  .
It was directed  by   bob  Clark .
The film has since become a holiday classic and is shown numerous times on  टेलीविज़न  during the Christmas  ऋतु  on the network TBS  ,  often in  a  24-hour marathon .
In 2012 , the film was selected for preservation in the  नेशनल  Film Registry by the Library of  कॉंग्रेस  for being `` culturally , historically , or  aesthetically  significant '' .
A Joe 's Crab  shack  branch in San  डिएगो  , CA .
The building was initially a rowing  क्लबों  and was later converted into the restaurant .
Joe 's Crab Shack is an American chain of  beach-themed  seafood casual dining restaurants owned by Ignite Restaurant Group .
Founded in Houston , Texas , the restaurant now operates locations all  आरपार  the United States of America  .
It serves seafood and American cuisine .
The restaurants also have a gift shop that sells facetious t-shirts featuring phrases advertising  जो  's seafood choices .
It is based in Houston , Texas .
New York City Cruise Liner Terminal in Hell 's Kitchen at 52nd Street .
The New  यॉर्क   यात्री  Ship Terminal ( also known as the Luxury Liner Row or Manhattan Cruise Terminal or New York Cruise Terminal ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side  .
the  terminal consists  of  North River Piers 88 , 90 , 92 and 94 on the Hudson River between West 46th and West 54th  गली  .
( As  a  general rule , pier numbers in Manhattan can be determined by  adding  40  to  the corresponding cross-street . )
Ships now dock at Piers 88 , 90 and 92 .
बांध  94 on the north side is now used for exhibition space .
Pier  86   ,  once used by United States Lines , is now home to the USS Intrepid .
In 2003  ,  the terminal handled 900,000 passengers .
The city is forecasting that 1.5 million will use the terminal by 2017 .
The piers are long and  अलावा  .
They were  पहला  completed in 1935 to replace the Chelsea Piers as the  नगर  's luxury liner terminal  .
The new terminal  थी  built to handle bigger ships that had outgrown the  चेल्सी  Piers .
The piers were renovated in 1970 and are currently  undergoing  another $ 150 million renovation .
The renovated plans call for it to handle three large ships at a time  .
In doing renovations ,  the  city is also considering decommissioning  बांध  92 .
Logo of the  नई  York Cruise Terminal.For
decades the terminal was the only ocean-going passenger terminal in New York harbor .
With an upsurge in  क्रूज  ship traffic and the terminal 's  क्षमता  to handle comfortably  तभी  three large ships at a  समय  , two new terminals have opened in the harbor — the Cape Liberty Cruise Port opened in 2004  in  Bayonne , New  जर्सी  ( used by Royal Caribbean Cruise Line , Celebrity  क्रूज़  and Azamara Cruises  )  , and  the  Brooklyn Cruise Terminal ( used by  the  Queen Mary 2 and other ships of  the  Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in  ब्रुकलीन  ,  नई  York .
The West Side Highway takes a small  जोग  east from the piers to below West 42nd Street because when the terminal was built land had to be taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer piers .
The US Army  corps  of Engineers , who control the waterfront dimension , would not extend the pierhead line farther into the  नदी  , so the city  विस्तारित  the pier by  कटिंग  away at the land .
The city earlier did this for the Chelsea Piers ; however in Chelsea only landfill was taken away .
At the Passenger Terminal actual Manhattan schist was taken away  .
From downstream in the river
Many major passenger ships have docked there , including the RMS Queen Mary 2 and Freedom of the Seas , before the Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals opened .
The SS Normandie caught fire and subsequently capsized at its  बांध  88 berth during World War  ii   .
The Normandie , renamed USS Lafayette , lies capsized in the frozen mud at Pier 88 in  the  winter of 1942
Norwegian  क्रूज  Line 's soon to be newest  जलयान  the Norwegian Breakaway will sail year-round out of the New York  यात्री  Ship Terminal .
The city will spend $ 4 million to renovate and upgrade the cruise terminal to accommodate the ship .
This is an overview of the regular , recurring , and other characters of  the  TV series NCIS .
Christian right is a  पद  used in  the  United States to describe right-wing Christian political groups that are characterized by their strong support  of   socially  conservative policies .
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply  उनके   समझना  of the teachings of Christianity to politics and public policy by proclaiming the value of those teachings and/or by seeking to use those teachings to influence law and public policy  .
In the  u.S.  ,  the  Christian  सही  is an informal coalition formed  around  a core of evangelical  protestants  that draws `` support from  नीतियां  conservative  catholics  , Jews , Mormons , and occasionally secularists ''  जो  share their goals .
The movement has its roots in American politics going  वापस  as far the 1940s and has been especially influential since the  1970s  .
उनके  influence  draws  , in part , from grassroots activism as  खूब  as their focus on social issues and ability to motivate the electorate around those issues .
the  Christian right is notable today for advancing socially conservative  स्थितियाँ  on issues including school prayer , stem cell research , homosexuality , contraception , abortion , and pornography .
Although the Christian right is usually associated with the U.S. , the movement has been a key factor  in  the politics of Canada , The Netherlands , Northern  आयरलैंड  and Australia , among others .
Far East Movement ( stylized as Far★East Movement or abbreviated  fm  ) is an American hip hop band quartet based in Los Angeles .
The group formed in 2003 and consists of Kev Nish ( Kevin Nishimura ) , Prohgress ( James Roh ) , J-Splif (  jae  Choung ) ,  और  DJ Virman ( Virman Coquia ) .
Far East  गति  's first claim to  कीर्ति  was  उनके  song `` Round Round '' featured in the Hollywood movie , The Fast and the Furious : Tokyo Drift , and its subsequent soundtrack , video game and DVD .
Since `` Round Round '' , the group has been featured on various network shows including , , Entourage , Gossip Girl , and Finishing the  खेल  ( a featured film at Sundance 2007 ) .
Their single `` Like a G6  ``  hit number one  on  the Billboard Hot 100 Chart and on iTunes as well in late October 2010 .
Far East Movement  भी  has the distinction of being the first Asian-American group to earn a # 1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100  in  the United  राज्य  .
LR44 is the IEC designation for an alkaline 1.5 volt button cell , commonly used in small LED flashlights , digital  thermometers  , calculators , calipers , watches , clocks , toys and laser pointers .
LR44 alkaline cell
The battery nomenclature is defined  by  the International Electrotechnical Commission ( IEC ) in its 60086-3 standard ( Primary batteries , part 3  देखें  batteries  )  .
The letter L indicates the electrochemical system used ; a zinc negative electrode ,  मैंगनीज  dioxide depolarizer and positive electrode  ,  and  an  alkaline electrolyte .
R44 indicates a  गोलाकार  cell 11.4±0.2 mm diameter and 5.2±0.2 mm height as defined by the IEC standard 60086 .
निर्माताओं  have their own part numbers for IEC  प्रकार   lr44  batteries including:
LR44 , LR44G , LR44GD , LR44H
LR1154 , L1154 , L1154C , L1154F , L1154G , L1154H
6135-99-792-8475 ( NSN )
1166A
AG13 , A613 ,  ag14  , AG-14 , G13A , G13-A
157 , 303 , 357
a76  , GDA76 , GP76A , GPA7 , GPA75 , GPA76 , GPS76A,
1128MP  ,  208-904 , A-76 , CA18 , CA19 ,  cr44   ,  D76A ,  ka  , KA76 , MS76H , PX76A , PX675A , RPX675 , RW82 , SB-F9 , V13GA
4.5-volt , D  ,  C , AA , AAA , AAAA , A23 , 9-volt , CR2032 and LR44 batteries
Other types of batteries are or were made in the R44  आकार   .
Formerly  ,  mercury batteries  यहूद  made as  बटन  cells ( types MR44 and NR44 )  .
Zinc-air batteries type PR44 require  एयर  to work .
Silver-oxide batteries type SR44 may  provide  extra  क्षमता  compared to LR44 types but have slightly different voltage characteristics .
Performance of a  यंत्र  meant to use a silver-oxide  बैटरी  may be degraded with substitution of LR44 types .
Manufacturer 's numbers for silver oxide R44 size  कोशिकाएं  include:
SR44/SR44W/SR44SW
6135-99-651-3240 (  nsn  )
SR1154
1107SO
1131SOP
SG13
S76
EPX76 (  energizer  )
303/357 ( D357H )
Hurricane Katrina was the deadliest and most destructive Atlantic hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season .
It was the costliest natural  विपत्ति  , as  खूब  as one of the five deadliest hurricanes , in the history of the United States .
Among recorded Atlantic  hurricanes  , it  थी  the sixth  strongest  overall .
At  तनिक  1,833 people died in the hurricane and subsequent floods , making it the  deadliest  U.S. hurricane  चूंकि  the 1928  okeechobee  hurricane  ;  total property damage  थी  estimated at $ 81 billion  (  2005 USD ) , nearly triple  the  damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992 .
Hurricane Katrina formed over the Bahamas on August 23 , 2005 and crossed southern Florida as a moderate Category 1 hurricane , causing some deaths and  बाढ़  there before strengthening rapidly in  the  Gulf of Mexico .
The hurricane strengthened to a Category 5  hurricane  over the  गरम  Gulf water , but weakened before making its second landfall as a Category 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday  ,  August 29 in southeast Louisiana .
It caused severe  विनाश  along the Gulf coast from  सेंट्रल  Florida to  टेक्सास   ,  much of it due to the storm surge .
The  सबसे  significant number  of  deaths occurred in New Orleans , Louisiana , which  flooded  as the levee  प्रणाली  catastrophically  विफल  , in many cases hours after the storm had moved inland .
Eventually 80 % of  the  city and  विशाल   tracts  of  neighboring  parishes became flooded , and the floodwaters lingered for  सप्ताह  .
however  , the worst property damage occurred in coastal areas , such as all Mississippi beachfront towns ,  जिससे  were flooded  over  90 % in hours , as  नौकाएँ  and casino barges rammed buildings , pushing cars and houses inland , with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km )  इससे  the beach .
The hurricane surge protection failures in  नई  Orleans are considered the  worst  civil engineering disaster  in  U.S. history and prompted a lawsuit against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ( USACE ) ,  the  designers and builders of  the  levee system as mandated by the Flood Control  अधिनियम  of 1965 .
Responsibility for the failures and flooding was laid squarely on the Army Corps in January 2008 by Judge Stanwood Duval , U.S. District Court , but the federal agency could not be held financially liable  due  to sovereign immunity in the Flood Control  अधिनियम  of 1928 .
There was also an investigation  of  the responses from federal , state and local governments , resulting in the resignation of Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) director Michael D. Brown , and of New Orleans  पुलिस  Department ( NOPD ) Superintendent Eddie Compass .
अनेक  agencies including the United States Coast Guard ( USCG ) , National Hurricane Center ( NHC ) , and National Weather Service ( NWS ) were  commended  for  उनके  actions .
They  provided  accurate hurricane weather tracking forecasts with sufficient lead time .
Even  the  most insistent appeals from national ,  राज्य  and local public officials  to  residents to evacuate before the storm did  नहीं  warn  कि  the levees could breach and fail .
U.S. debt from 1940 to 2011 .
Red lines indicate the `` debt held by the public '' and black  लाइनों  indicate the total national debt or gross public debt .
The  अंतर  is  the  `` intragovernmental debt ,  ''  which includes obligations to government programs such as Social Security .
Stated  as   a  formula , National Debt  =  Debt held by the Public + Intragovernmental Debt  .
The  दूसरी  panel shows the  दो  debt figures as a percentage of U.S. GDP ( dollar value of U.S. economic production for that year ) .
The top panel  is  deflated so every year is in 2010 dollars .
The United States public debt is the money borrowed  by  the  संघीय  government of the United States through the issuing of securities  by  the Treasury and other federal government agencies .
US public debt consists of two  घटकs:
Debt held by the public includes Treasury securities held by investors outside the federal government , including that held  by  individuals , corporations , the Federal Reserve System and foreign , state and local governments .
Debt held by government accounts or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable  राजकोष  securities held in accounts administered by the federal government that are owed to program beneficiaries , such as the  सोशल  Security Trust Fund .
Debt held by government accounts represents the cumulative surpluses , including interest earnings ,  of  these accounts that have been invested in Treasury securities .
Public debt increases or decreases as a result of the annual unified  बजट  deficit or surplus .
The federal government budget deficit or  surplus  is the difference between government receipts and spending , ignoring intra-governmental transfers  .
However ,  कुछ  spending  कि  is excluded from the deficit  (  supplemental appropriations ) also adds to the debt .
Historically  ,  the US public debt as a share  of  GDP increased during wars and  recessions  , and subsequently  अस्वीकृत  .
For example , debt held by the public  as  a share of GDP peaked just after World War II ( 113 % of GDP in 1945 ) , but  तब  fell over the following 30 years .
In recent decades , however  ,  large budget deficits and the resulting increases  in  debt have led to concern about the long-term sustainability of the federal government 's fiscal  नीतियों  .
On 2 April  2013  , debt held by the public was approximately $ 11.959 trillion or about 75  %  of  जीडीपी  .
Intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 trillion , giving a combined total public debt of $ 16.805  खरब  .
As of January 2013 , $ 5.6 trillion  or  approximately 47 % of the debt held by the  पब्लिक  was owned by foreign investors , the largest of  जिससे  were the People 's Republic of China and Japan at just over $ 1.1 trillion each .
In basketball , an assist is attributed to  a  player who passes the ball to a teammate in a  रास्ता  that leads to a  स्कोर   by   फ़ील्ड  goal , meaning that  he  or she was `` assisting  ''  in the basket .
There is some judgment involved in deciding  whether  a passer should  be  credited with an assist .
An assist  can  be scored for the passer even if the player who receives the pass  makes  a basket after dribbling  the  ball .
However , the original definition of an  assist  did not  शामिल  such situations , so the comparison of  assist  statistics across eras is a  जटिल  matter .
Only the pass directly before the score  may  be counted as an  assist  , so no more than one assist can be recorded per  फ़ील्ड   लक्ष्य  ( unlike in  अन्य  sports ,  ऐसे  as ice hockey ) .
A pass that  लीड  to a shooting foul and scoring by free throws does not count as an  assist  in the NBA , but does in FIBA play ( only one assist is awarded per set of free throws in which at least one free throw is made ) .
Point guards tend to get the most assists  प्रति  game (  apg  ) , as  उनके   भूमिका  is primarily that of a passer  और  ballhandler .
Centers tend to get fewer assists , but centers with good  मंजिल  presence and court vision can dominate a team by assisting .
होने  inside the key , the center often has the best angles and the best  स्थिति  for `` dishes '' and other short passes in the scoring area .
Center Wilt Chamberlain led the NBA in assists  in  1968 .
A strong center with inside-scoring prowess , such as former NBA center Hakeem Olajuwon  ,  can also be an effective assistor because the defense 's double-teaming tends to open  up  offense in the form  of  shooters .
The NBA single-game  assist  record is  30  , held by Scott Skiles of the Orlando Magic against the Denver  टेंडर्स  , on December  30  , 1990 .
The NBA record for most career assists is held by  जॉन  Stockton with 15,806 .
The mill or mille (  )  ( sometimes mil in  the  UK , when discussing property taxes in the United States , or  previously  in Cyprus and Malta ) is a now-abstract unit of currency used sometimes in accounting .
in  the United States , it is  a  notional unit equivalent to of a United States dollar ( a tenth of a cent ) .
In the United Kingdom it was proposed during the decades  of  discussion  on   the  decimalization of the pound as a division of the pound sterling .
Several other currencies used  the  mill , such as the Maltese lira .
The term comes from the Latin `` millesimum '' , meaning  ``  thousandth part '' .
The Greco-Persian Wars ( also often called the Persian Wars ) were a  श्रेणी  of conflicts between the Achaemenid Empire of Persia and city-states  of  the Hellenic world that started in 499 BC  और  lasted until 449 BC .
The collision between the fractious political world of the Greeks and the enormous empire of the Persians began when Cyrus the Great conquered Ionia in 547 BC .
Struggling to rule the independent-minded cities of Ionia , the Persians appointed tyrants to rule each  of  them .
This would prove  to  be the source of much trouble for the Greeks and Persians  alike  .
In 499 BC , the then tyrant of Miletus , Aristagoras , embarked on an expedition to conquer the island of Naxos , with Persian support ; however , the expedition was  a  debacle and , pre-empting his dismissal , Aristagoras incited all of Hellenic Asia Minor into rebellion against  the  Persians .
This  थी  the beginning of the Ionian  विद्रोह  , which would last until 493 BC , progressively drawing more regions of Asia Minor into the  विरोध  .
Aristagoras secured military support from  एथेंस  and  eretria  , and in 498 BC these forces helped to capture and burn the Persian regional capital of Sardis  .
The  पारसी  king  दारा  the Great vowed to have revenge on Athens and  eretria  for this act  .
The revolt  जारी  , with the two sides effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC .
In 494 BC  ,  the Persians regrouped , and attacked the epicentre of the revolt in Miletus .
at  the Battle of Lade , the Ionians suffered a decisive defeat ,  और  the rebellion collapsed ,  साथ  the final members being  stamped  out the following year .
Seeking to  सुरक्षित  his empire from further revolts and from the interference of  the  mainland Greeks , Darius embarked on a scheme to conquer Greece and to punish Athens and Eretria  लिये  burning Sardis .
The first Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 BC , with the Persian general Mardonius conquering Thrace and Macedon before several mishaps forced an early end to the campaign .
In 490 BC a second force was sent to Greece , this time across the Aegean Sea , under the command of Datis and  artaphernes  .
This expedition subjugated the Cyclades , before besieging  ,  capturing and razing  eretria  .
However , while en route to attack Athens  ,   the  Persian force was decisively defeated by the Athenians at  the  Battle of  मैराथन  , ending Persian efforts for the time being .
Darius then began to plan to complete the conquest of Greece , but died  in  486 BC and responsibility for the conquest passed to his son Xerxes I .
In 480 BC , Xerxes personally led the second Persian invasion of Greece with one of the largest ancient armies  कभी  assembled .
विजय  over the 'Allied ' Greek states ( led by Sparta  और  Athens ) at the Battle of  thermopylae  allowed the Persians to torch Athens and overrun most  of  Greece .
However , while seeking to destroy the combined Greek fleet , the Persians suffered a severe defeat at the Battle of Salamis .
The following year , the confederated Greeks went on  the  offensive , defeating  the  Persian army at the Battle of Plataea , and ending the invasion of Greece .
The allied Greeks followed up their success by destroying the rest of the Persian fleet at  the  Battle  of  Mycale  ,  before  expelling  Persian garrisons from Sestos (  479   bc  ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ) .
The actions of the general Pausanias at the siege of Byzantium alienated many of  the  Greek states from the Spartans , and the anti-Persian alliance was therefore reconstituted around  athenian  leadership , as the so-called Delian  लीग  .
The Delian League continued to campaign  विरूद्ध  Persia for the next  तीन  decades , beginning with the expulsion of the  बाकी  Persian garrisons from Europe .
At the Battle of the  eurymedon   in  466 BC , the League won a double victory that finally secured freedom for the cities  of  Ionia .
However , the  लीग  's involvement  in  an Egyptian  विद्रोह  ( from 460–454 BC  )  resulted in a  विनाशकारी  defeat , and further campaigning was suspended  .
A fleet was sent to Cyprus in  451  BC , but achieved little  ,  and when it withdrew the Greco-Persian Wars drew to a quiet end .
Some historical sources suggest the end of hostilities was marked by a peace treaty  between  Athens and Persia  ,   the   so-called  Peace  of  Callias .
Hooverville near Portland , Oregon
A ``  hooverville  '' is the  लोकप्रिय  name for  shanty   कस्बों  built by homeless people during the Great Depression .
They  यहूद  named after Herbert Hoover , who was President of the United States during the onset of the Depression  और  widely blamed for it .
The  पद  was coined by  चार्ल्स  Michelson , publicity chief of the Democratic National Committee  .
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck ( born September 25 , 1975  )  is an American football quarterback for the Indianapolis Colts of the National Football League  (  NFL ) .
He was drafted in the sixth round of the 1998 NFL Draft by the  ग्रीन  Bay Packers .
After a  ऋतु  on the practice squad and two seasons  बैकिंग  up Brett Favre , he was  traded  to the Seattle  सीहॉक्स  in  2001  .
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003  ,  and led Seattle to six playoff appearances and a Super Bowl appearance ; he was selected to three Pro Bowls and an All-Pro selection .
Following ten  सीज़न  with the Seahawks , Hasselbeck joined the Tennessee Titans in 2011 .
Hasselbeck then signed a contract with the Indianapolis Colts in 2013 less than 24 hours after being released by the Tennessee Titans .
ICT is inevitably related to the computer network .
Information and Communications Technology or  (  ICT ) , is often used as an extended synonym for information technology (  it  ) , but is a more specific term that stresses the role of  एकीकृत  communications and the integration of telecommunications  (  telephone lines and wireless signals ) ,  कंप्यूटर  as well as necessary enterprise software , middleware ,  भंडार  , and audio-visual systems ,  जिससे  enable users to access , store , transmit , and manipulate information .
The phrase  आईसीटी  had been  प्रयुक्त  by  अकादमिक  researchers since the  1980s  ,  लकिन  it became  लोकप्रिय  after it was used in a report to the  uk  government  by  Dennis Stevenson in 1997 and in the revised National Curriculum for England  ,  Wales and Northern Ireland in 2000 .
The term ICT is now also used to refer to the convergence of audio-visual and telephone networks with computer networks  through   a  single cabling or link system .
There are large economic incentives ( huge cost savings  due  to elimination of the telephone network ) to merge the  audio-visual  , building management and  टेलीफोन  network with the computer network system using a single unified system of cabling  ,  signal distribution and management .
The term Infocommunications is used  in  some cases as a shorter form of information and  संचार  ( s ) technology .
In fact Infocommunications is  the  expansion of telecommunications with information processing and content handling functions on a common digital technology base  .
लिये  a comparison of these  और  other terms , see .
For ICT Development Index around the world , see .
This is a list  of  characters from George Lopez .
A schematic presentation  of  the plum  खीर  model of the atom ;  in   thomson  's mathematical model the `` corpuscles '' ( or modern  electrons  ) were arranged non-randomly , in rotating rings
The current model of the sub-atomic structure involves a dense nucleus surrounded by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of  electrons
The plum pudding  मॉडल   of   the  atom by J. J. Thomson , who  खोजा  the electron in 1897 , was proposed in 1904 before the discovery of the atomic nucleus  in  order to add  the  electron to the atomic model .
In this model , the atom is composed of electrons ( which Thomson still called `` corpuscles  ''  , though G. J.  stoney  had proposed that  अणु  of electricity be called electrons in 1894 ) surrounded by a soup of positive  चार्ज  to balance  the   electrons   '  negative charges , like  negatively  charged  ``  plums `` surrounded by positively  चार्ज  `` pudding `` .
The electrons  (   as  we know them today ) were thought to  be  positioned throughout the atom , but with many structures possible for positioning multiple electrons , particularly rotating rings of electrons ( see below  )  .
Instead of a soup , the atom was also sometimes said  to  have had a `` cloud '' of positive charge .
With this model , Thomson abandoned his earlier `` nebular atom '' hypothesis in which the atom was composed of immaterial vortices .
Now  ,  at least part of  the  atom was to be composed of Thomson 's particulate negative corpuscles , although the rest of the positively charged part of the atom  remained  somewhat nebulous and ill-defined .
The  1904  Thomson model was disproved by the 1909 gold foil experiment  of  Hans Geiger and Ernest Marsden  .
This  थी  interpreted by Ernest Rutherford in  1911
to imply a  बहुत  small nucleus of the atom containing a very high positive charge ( in the case  of   सुनहरा  , enough to  संतुलन  about  100  electrons ) , thus leading to the  रदरफोर्ड  model of the atom .
Although gold  रै  an atomic number of 79 , immediately after Rutherford 's paper appeared in 1911 Antonius Van den Broek made the intuitive suggestion that atomic number is nuclear  चार्ज  .
The matter required experiment to decide .
Henry Moseley 's work showed experimentally in  1913  ( see Moseley 's law ) that the effective nuclear charge was very close to the atomic number ( Moseley found only one unit difference ) , and  moseley  referenced only the papers of  वैन  den Broek and Rutherford  .
This work  culminated  in the solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) Bohr model of the atom in the same year , in which a nucleus containing an atomic number of positive charge is surrounded by an equal number of electrons in orbital shells .
Bohr had also inspired Moseley 's work .
Thomson 's model was compared ( though not by Thomson  )  to a British dessert called plum pudding , hence the name .
Thomson 's paper was published in the  कूच  1904 edition of the  philosophical  Magazine , the leading British science journal of the day .
In Thomson 's view : ... the  अणु  of the elements consist of a number of negatively electrified  corpuscles  enclosed in a sphere of uniform positive electrification , ...
In this model , the electrons were free to rotate within the blob or cloud of positive substance  .
These orbits were stabilized in the model by the fact that when an electron moved farther from the center of the positive  बादल  , it felt a larger net positive inward force ,  क्युकी  there was more material of opposite charge , inside its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ) .
In Thomson 's model , electrons were free to rotate in rings which were further stabilized by interactions between the electrons ,  और   spectra  were to be accounted for by energy differences of different ring orbits .
Thomson attempted to make  उसके  model account for some of the major spectral lines known for some elements , but was  नहीं   notably  successful at this  .
Still , Thomson 's model ( along with a similar Saturnian ring model for atomic electrons , also put forward  in  1904 by Nagaoka after  जेम्स  Clerk Maxwell  's  model of Saturn 's rings  )  , were earlier harbingers of the later and more  कामयाब  solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom .
Typical strip of bacon  .
Bacon is a cured meat prepared from a pig .
It is first cured using large quantities of salt ,  either  in  a  brine or in  a   शुष्क  packing ; the result is fresh bacon ( also known as  ग्रीन  bacon ) .
Fresh bacon may then be further dried for weeks or  महीने  in cold air , or it may be boiled or smoked .
Fresh and  सूखी  bacon is typically cooked  पहले  eating .
Boiled bacon is ready to eat , as is some smoked bacon , but may be cooked further before eating .
Bacon is prepared from several different cuts of meat .
It is usually  बना  from side and back cuts of pork , except in the United States , where it is almost always prepared from pork belly ( typically referred to as `` streaky '' , `` fatty  ''  , or `` American  स्टाइल  '' outside of  the  US and Canada ) .
The  पक्ष  cut has more meat and less fat than the  पेट  .
Bacon may be  prepared  from  either  of two distinct back cuts : fatback  ,  which is almost  pure  fat , and pork loin , which is very lean .
Bacon-cured pork  loin  is known as back bacon .
Uncooked  पोर्क  belly  बेकन  strips .
Bacon may be eaten smoked , boiled , fried  ,  baked , or grilled , or used as a minor ingredient to  स्वाद  dishes .
Bacon is also used for barding  और  larding roasts , especially game  ,  e.g . venison  ,   pheasant  .
The word is derived from the  बूढ़ा   ऊँची  German bacho , meaning `` buttock '' , `` ham ''  or  `` side of bacon '' , and cognate with  the  Old French bacon .
In continental Europe , this part of the pig is usually not smoked like bacon is in the  संयुक्त  States ; it is used primarily in cubes ( lardons ) as a cooking ingredient ,  valued  both as  a  source of fat and for its flavor .
In Italy , this is called pancetta  और  is usually cooked in small cubes or served uncooked and thinly sliced as part of an  antipasto  .
Meat from other animals , such as beef , lamb , chicken , goat , or turkey , may also  be  cut , cured , or otherwise prepared to resemble bacon , and may even be referred to as `` bacon '' .
Such use is common in areas with significant Jewish and  मुस्लिम  populations .
The USDA defines bacon as ``  the  cured belly of a swine carcass  ''  ; other cuts and characteristics must be separately qualified ( e.g. , `` smoked pork loin bacon '' ) .
For  सुरक्षा  , bacon must be treated to prevent trichinosis  ,  caused by  trichinella  , a parasitic roundworm which can be destroyed by heating , freezing , drying , or smoking .
Bacon is distinguished  इससे  salt pork and ham by differences in the brine (  or  dry packing ) .
Bacon brine has added curing ingredients , most notably sodium nitrite  ,  and  occasionally  sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate ( saltpeter ) ; sodium ascorbate or erythorbate are added to accelerate curing and stabilize color .
flavorings  such as brown  शुगर   or  maple are used for some products .
if  used ,  सोडियम  polyphosphates are added to improve sliceability and reduce spattering when the bacon  is  pan fried .
आज  , a brine for ham , but not bacon , includes a large amount of sugar .
historically  , `` ham '' and `` bacon '' referred to different cuts of meat that were brined or packed identically , often together in the same barrel .
the   कर्मचारी  Retirement Income Security  अधिनियम   of  1974 ( ERISA ) ( , codified in part at ) is a federal law which establishes minimum standards for  पेंशन  plans in private industry and provides for extensive rules on the federal income tax effects of transactions associated with  कर्मचारी  benefit plans .
ERISA was enacted to protect the interests of  कर्मचारी  benefit  योजना  participants  और  their beneficiaries by:
Requiring the disclosure  of  financial and other information  concerning  the plan to beneficiaries ;
Establishing standards of  conduct  for plan fiduciaries ;
Providing  लिये  appropriate  remedies  and access to the federal courts .
ERISA is sometimes  प्रयुक्त  to refer to  the  full body of  कानून  regulating employee benefit plans , which are found mainly in the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA itself .
Responsibility for the interpretation  और  enforcement of ERISA is divided among the Department  of  Labor , the Department  of  the Treasury ( particularly the Internal Revenue Service ) , and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation .
Illegal immigration to the United States is the act  of  foreign nationals entering  the  United States , without government permission  और  in violation of United States  राष्ट्रीयता  law , or staying beyond the termination date of a visa ,  भी  in violation  of  the law .
A warning sign at the international boundary between the United States and Canada  in  Point Roberts ,  वॉशिंगटन  .
A much different approach at the U.S.-Mexico border near El Paso ,  टेक्सास
The  undocumented   अप्रवासी  population of the United States in 2008 was estimated by the Center for Immigration Studies to be about 11 million  लोगों  , down from 12.5  लाख  people in 2007 .
Other estimates range from 7 to 20 million .
According to a 2005 Pew Hispanic Center report , 56 % of undocumented immigrants were from Mexico ; 22 % were from  अन्य  Latin American countries ; 13 % were from Asia ; 6 % were from  यूरोपीय  and Canada ; and 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world .
Alvin Independent  स्कूल  District is a school district based in Alvin , Texas ( USA ) .
Alvin ISD is a  विशाल  suburban school district  दक्षिण  of Houston in the communities of Alvin , Manvel , Pearland , Hillcrest , Rosharon , Iowa Colony  ,  Liverpool , and Amsterdam .
AISD serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing western portion of the city including the new large master-planned communities of Shadow Creek Ranch ,  दक्षिण  Fork , and Southern Trails .
Alvin ISD covers of  जमीन  .
In human anatomy , the  ulnar  nerve is a nerve  जिससे   रनों  near  the  ulna bone .
The ulnar collateral ligament of elbow joint is in relation with the ulnar nerve .
The nerve is the largest unprotected nerve in the  इंसान  body ( meaning unprotected by muscle or bone ) , so injury is common .
This nerve is directly connected to the little finger , and the adjacent  हाफ   of  the ring finger ,  supplying  the palmar side of these fingers , including both front and back of the tips , perhaps as far back as  the  fingernail beds .
One method of injuring the nerve  is  to strike the medial epicondyle of the humerus from posteriorly , or inferiorly with the  कोहनी  flexed .
The ulnar nerve is  फंस   between  the bone and the overlying skin at  इस  point .
This is commonly referred to as bumping one 's `` funny  अस्थि  '' .
This name is thought to be  a  pun , based on the  ध्वनि  resemblance between the  नाम  of the bone of the upper arm , the `` humerus  ``   और  the  शब्द  `` humorous  ``  .
Alternatively , according to the  ऑक्सफोर्ड  English  शब्दकोष  it may refer to `` the  peculiar  sensation experienced when it  is  struck '' .
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft  और  Wizardry ,  shortened  Hogwarts  ,  is a fictional British school of magic for students  aged   ग्यारह  to eighteen , and is the primary setting for the first six books in J.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series .
Rowling has suggested that she may have inadvertently taken the  नाम  from the hogwort plant ( Croton  capitatus  ) , which she  था  seen at  kew  Gardens some time before writing the series , although the names `` The Hogwarts ''  और  `` Hoggwart '' appear in the 1954  निगेल  Molesworth book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans .
Hogwarts school was voted as the 36th best Scottish  शैक्षणिक  establishment in a  2008  online ranking , outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto School .
According to a director of  the  Independent Schools Network Rankings , it was added to  the   स्कूलों  listing `` for fun '' and  थी  then voted on .
The U.S. subprime mortgage crisis was a set of events and conditions that led to a financial  संकट  and subsequent recession that began in 2008 .
It was characterized by a rise  in  subprime mortgage  delinquencies  and foreclosures , and the resulting decline of securities backed by said mortgages .
Several major financial institutions collapsed in September 2008 , with significant disruption in the flow of credit to businesses and consumers and the  onset  of  a  severe  वैश्विक  recession .
There were many causes of the crisis , with commentators assigning different levels  of   दोष  to financial institutions ,  regulators  , credit agencies , government housing policies , and consumers , among others .
a  proximate cause was the rise  in  subprime lending .
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated during a given year rose from the historical 8 % or lower range to approximately 20 % from 2004 to  2006  , with much higher ratios in some parts of the U.S .
A high percentage of these subprime mortgages , over 90  %   in  2006 for example  ,  were adjustable-rate mortgages .
These two  परिवर्तन  were part of  a  broader trend of lowered lending standards and higher-risk mortgage products .
Further , U.S. households had become increasingly indebted , with the ratio of debt to disposable personal income rising  इससे  77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the end of 2007 , much  of  this increase mortgage-related .
When U.S. home prices declined steeply after peaking in mid-2006 , borrowers ' ability to refinance their loans became  अधिक  difficult .
As  adjustable-rate  mortgages began to reset at higher interest rates ( causing higher monthly payments ) , mortgage  delinquencies  soared .
Securities backed with  mortgages  , including subprime mortgages , widely held by  वित्तीय  firms globally , lost most of their value  .
Global investors also drastically reduced  purchases  of mortgage-backed debt and other securities as part of a decline in the capacity and willingness of the private financial system  to  support  lending  .
Concerns about the soundness of U.S. credit  और  financial markets led to tightening credit around the world and slowing  आर्थिक  growth in  the  U.S. and Europe .
The crisis had severe , long-lasting consequences for  the  U.S. and  यूरोपीय  economies .
The U.S. entered a deep recession , with nearly 9 million jobs lost during 2008 and 2009 , roughly 6 % of the workforce .
U.S. housing prices fell nearly  30  % on average and the U.S. stock market fell approximately 50 % by early 2009 .
As  of  early 2013 , the U.S. stock market had recovered to its pre-crisis peak but housing prices remained near their low point and unemployment remained elevated  .
Economic growth remained below pre-crisis  स्तर  .
यूरोपीय  also continued  to   संघर्ष  with its own economic crisis .
Carl Jung in 1910 .
Myers and Briggs extrapolated their MBTI theory from Jung 's writings  in   उसके  book Psychological  प्रकार  .
the  Myers-Briggs  प्रकार  Indicator ( MBTI ) assessment  is  a psychometric questionnaire designed to measure psychological preferences in how people perceive the  संसार   और  make decisions .
ये  preferences were extrapolated from the typological theories  प्रस्तावित  by Carl Gustav Jung and first published in  उसके  1921 book Psychological Types ( English edition  ,  1923 ) .
Jung theorized that there are  चार  principal psychological functions by which we experience the world : sensation , intuition , feeling , and thinking .
एक  of these four functions  is  dominant most of the time .
The original developers of the personality inventory were Katharine Cook Briggs and her daughter  ,  Isabel Briggs Myers ; these two , having studied  extensively  the work of Jung , turned their interest of human behavior into a devotion  of  turning the theory of psychological types to practical use .
वे  began creating the indicator during World War II  ,  believing that a knowledge of personality preferences would help women  जो  were entering the industrial workforce  लिये  the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable and effective '' .
The initial questionnaire grew  into  the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator , which  थी  first published in 1962 .
The MBTI focuses on normal  populations  and emphasizes  the  value of naturally occurring differences .
Robert Kaplan and  डेनिस  Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is that we all have specific  वरीयताओं   in  the way  we  construe our  अनुभवों  , and  ये  preferences underlie  हमारी  interests , needs , values  ,  and motivation '' ( p. 499 ) .
`` Judas '' is a song by  अमरीकी  recording artist Lady Gaga , from her second studio album Born This Way  (  2011 ) .
It was released  by  Interscope Records  on  April 15  ,  2011 , four days ahead of its scheduled release .
Written  और  produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne , `` Judas '' is a dance and electro house song about a woman  in  love with a man who betrayed her .
It embodies the incidents  कि  have  haunted  Gaga in the past , and its core meaning refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't  एस्केप   .
Gaga has further explained that the song was also  परिचय  honoring one 's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the light .
the  artwork for  the  single was designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word .
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups , the song was generally  खूब  received by critics , who likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have  महरूम  the album 's  सीसे  single .
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced  ट्रैक्स  , including `` Poker Face `` , `` LoveGame `` , `` Bad Romance '' , and `` Alejandro `` .
It contains three distinct hooks and a house -influenced break down .
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the breakdown  बात  about  उसके  as  परे  redemption ,  regarding  the traditional  दृश्य  of what  a  woman should be .
`` Judas '' initially had a  दमदार  sales opening ,  लकिन  was less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles .
The song  पहुँचे  the  शीर्ष  ten of the charts in most major music markets , and also reached the top of the charts in South Korea .
a  music video  लिये  the song was  फिल्माया  in April  2011  , co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann  गिब्सन  and co-starring Norman Reedus .
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus played Judas Iscariot and Gaga played Mary Magdalene .
The video  portrays  them as modern day missionaries going to  जेरूसलम  .
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying Jesus , and ended with Gaga  as  Magdalene  getting   stoned  to  मौत  .
Before its release , the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged use of religious imagery and her role in the video .
However , critics generally praised the  वीडियो  , not finding any offensive  सामग्री  .
The video was nominated for  दो  awards at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards .
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number  of  television  shows  , including The  ग्राहम   नॉर्टन  Show , Saturday Night Live , Good Morning  americas  `` Summer Concert Series  ''  , the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show .
Marvin Gaye ( April 2 , 1939April 1 , 1984 ) , born Marvin Pentz  gay  ,  jr.  , was an American singer-songwriter and musician .
Gaye  helped  to shape the  ध्वनि  of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of  हिट्स  including `` How  मीठी  It Is (  to  Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard  it  Through  the  Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell , later earning  the  titles `` Prince of  motown  ''  और  `` Prince of Soul '' .
दौरान  the  1970s  , Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going On and Let 's Get It On and became among the first artists in Motown to break away from the reins of its production company .
Gaye 's later recordings influenced several R & B subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
following  a period in Europe under  a  tax exile  in  the early 1980s , Gaye released the 1982  ग्रैमी  Award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album .
Since his death in 1984 , Gaye has been posthumously honored by many  संस्थानों  , including  the  Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame .
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one  of  the Academy Awards  of  Merit presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) to producers working  in  the motion  चित्र  industry and is the only category in which every member is eligible to nominate for .
Best Picture is considered the most important of the Academy Awards , as  it  represents all the directing , acting  ,  music composing , writing , editing  और  other efforts put  forth  into a film .
Consequently , Best Picture is the  फाइनल  award and  the  conclusion of the annual Academy Awards ceremony .
The Grand Staircase columns at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles , where the Academy Awards ceremonies have been held since  2002  , showcase every film that has won the Best Picture title since the award  's  inception 85 years ago .
Heavy Rain is an interactive drama action-adventure video game created by French developer Quantic Dream exclusively for the PlayStation 3 .
The game  is  written and directed  by  Quantic Dream 's founder and  सीईओ  David  पिंजरा  .
Heavy Rains  स्टोरी  is a dramatic thriller modelled  बाद  film  noir  , featuring four protagonists involved with  the  mystery of the Origami Killer , a serial killer who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims .
Ethan Mars  is  trying to save his son from being the next victim , while investigative journalist Madison Paige , FBI profiler  नॉर्मन  Jayden , and private detective Scott Shelby are each trying to track down  clues  to the Origami Killer 's identity .
The  खिलाड़ी  interacts with the game by performing actions highlighted on screen related to motions on the controller , and in some cases , performing a series of quick time events during fast-paced  कार्रवाई   sequences  .
the  player 's decisions  और  actions during the game will affect the narrative .
The main  वर्ण  can be killed , and certain actions may lead to different scenes and endings .
A playable demo  थी  released on 11 February 2010 .
The  डेमो  was  released  prior to this date  लिये  people who  took  part in a Four Day Challenge on  5  February 2010 .
A patch to  allow  use of the PlayStation Move controller to  खेल  the game was released in September 2010 .
Heavy Rain was critically  acclaimed  and has sold over two million copies .
It won 2010 's Game of the Year from CNN and Gaming Union , and Best PS3 Game of 2010 by GameSpy and IGN .
A modified version of the game was released titled Heavy Rain Edition Modifiée exclusively in  फ़्रांस  , aimed towards a younger audience .
in  2010 , the game was included in the book 1001 Video Games You Must Play Before  तुम  Die  .
Total  superannuation  industry  देनदारी  : members funds and reserves ( A $ millions ) since 1988 .
Annual total superannuation industry asset  विकास  1996-2005 .
Superannuation in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  refers to the  इंतजाम  which people make in Australia to have funds available for them  in  retirement  .
In Australia ,  superannuation  arrangements are government-supported and encouraged , and minimum provisions are compulsory for employees .
लिये  example , employers are  जरूरी  to pay a proportion of an employee  's  salaries and wages  (  currently 9 % ) into a superannuation fund , but  लोगों  are encouraged to put aside additional funds  into  superannuation .
The minimum obligation required by employers is set  to  increase  to  12 % gradually stepping annually from 2013 to 2020 .
An  व्यक्तिगत  can withdraw funds out of a superannuation fund when the person meets one of the conditions of release contained in Schedule 1 of the Superannuation Industry  (  Supervision ) Regulations 1994 .
This is a  सूची  of the characters from the American comedy-drama television series  the  Game .
Electoral College map showing the results of the 2012 U.S. presidential  चुनाव  .
President Barack Obama (  d  - IL  )  won the popular vote in 26 states and the District  of  Columbia ( denoted in  ब्लू  ) to capture  332  electoral votes .
Former Governor Mitt Romney ( R - MA ) won the popular vote in 24 states ( denoted in red  )   to  capture 206 electoral votes  .
cartogram  representation of the Electoral College vote for the 2012 election ,  साथ  each square representing one electoral vote .
The United States Electoral College is the institution that officially elects the President  और  Vice President of the  संयुक्त  States every four years .
The President and Vice President are not elected directly by the voters  .
Instead , they are elected by `` electors '' who are chosen by popular vote on a state-by-state  आधार  .
Electors are apportioned to each state and the District of Columbia , but not to territorial possessions  of  the United  राज्य  , such as Puerto Rico and Guam .
the  number of electors in each state  is  equal  to  the number of members of Congress to which the state is entitled .
The Twenty-third Amendment has always resulted in the District of Columbia having three electors .
There are 538  निर्वाचक  , based  on  there being 435 representatives and 100 senators , plus the three electors from the District of Columbia .
Electors are  pledged  to particular presidential and vice  अध्यक्षीय  candidates ,  हालांकि  unpledged electors are possible .
In all states ,  मगर  Maine and Nebraska , electors are elected on a `` winner-take-all '' basis  .
कि  is , all electors pledged to  the  presidential candidate who wins the most  मत  in a state become electors for that state .
maine   और  Nebraska  उपयोग  the `` congressional district method '' , selecting one elector within each congressional district by popular vote and  selecting  the remaining two electors by  a  statewide popular vote .
हालांकि   no   elector  is required by federal law to honor a pledge , there have  तभी  been very few occasions when an elector voted contrary to a pledge  .
The Twelfth Amendment specifies how a President and Vice President are elected and requires each elector to cast one vote for President  और  another vote for Vice President .
Critics  argue  that the Electoral  कॉलेज   is  inherently undemocratic and gives swing states disproportionate influence in electing  the  President and Vice President .
The Electoral College gives a numeric advantage in the  चुनाव  of the president to the smaller states , as the minimum number of electors for the small states is three compared to one for the election of representatives .
On the other hand  ,  the winner-take-all method of voting  favors  the larger states .
A number of constitutional amendments have been proposed seeking to alter the Electoral College  or  replace it with a direct popular vote .
बराक  Hussein Obama II ( ; born August 4 , 1961 )  is  the 44th and  वर्तमान  President of  the   संयुक्त  States , the first African American to hold the office .
Born in Honolulu  ,  Hawaii , Obama is a  ग्रैजुएट  of Columbia University and Harvard  विधि  School , where he was president of the Harvard Law Review .
He was a community organizer in Chicago before earning his law degree .
He worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago and taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004  .
He served three terms representing the 13th District in  the  Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004 , running unsuccessfully for the  संयुक्त  States  हाउस  of Representatives in 2000 .
In 2004 , Obama  प्राप्त  national attention during his campaign to represent Illinois in the United States Senate with his victory in the March Democratic Party primary , his keynote address at the Democratic National Convention in July  ,  and his election to the Senate in November .
He began  उसके  presidential  अभियान  in 2007 , and in 2008 , after a close primary campaign against Hillary Rodham  क्लिंटन  ,  he  won sufficient delegates in the Democratic Party primaries to receive the presidential nomination .
He then defeated Republican nominee John McCain in the  सामान्य  election , and was inaugurated as president  on  January 20 , 2009 .
Nine months later , Obama was named the  2009  Nobel Peace Prize laureate .
he   थी   re-elected  president in November 2012 , defeating Republican  nominee   mitt  Romney  ,  and was sworn in for  a  second  पद  on  जनवरी  20 , 2013 .
Early in his first term in office , Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation in response to the Great Recession in the form of the American  रिकवरी  and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the Tax Relief  ,  Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization , and Job Creation Act of 2010 .
Other  प्रमुख  domestic initiatives in his presidency include the Patient Protection and  सस्ती  Care Act , often referred  to  as `` Obamacare  ''  ; the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform  और  Consumer Protection Act ; the Do n't Ask , Do  n't  Tell Repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget Control Act of  2011  ; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012  .
In May 2012 ,  he  became  the  first sitting U.S. president to publicly support same-sex marriage and in 2013 his administration filed briefs which urged the Supreme  अदालत  to rule in favor of same-sex couples  in  two high-profile cases .
In foreign policy , Obama ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq  युद्ध   ,   increased  troop levels in Afghanistan ,  हस्ताक्षरित  the New START arms control treaty with  रूस  ,  ordered  U.S. military involvement in Libya ,  और  ordered  the  military operation that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden .
The Honda CBR1100XX Super Blackbird was a Honda motorcycle made from 1996 to 2007 .
The bike was developed to challenge the Kawasaki Ninja  zx-11  as the world 's fastest production  मोटरसाइकिल  , and Honda succeeded with  a  top speed  of  .
Two years later the  शीर्षक  passed to the Suzuki Hayabusa , which  पहुँचे  .
The Blackbird is named after the Lockheed SR-71 ,  भी   a  speed record holder .
Sample view  of   an   इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  health record based on images
Sample view of  an  electronic health record
an  electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information  परिचय  individual patients or populations .
It is a record in digital format  कि  is theoretically capable of  होने  shared across different health  परवाह  settings .
in  some cases this sharing can occur by way of  network-connected  enterprise-wide  सूचना  systems and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may include a range of data ,  सहित  demographics , medical history , medication and allergies , immunization status ,  प्रयोगशाला  test results , radiology images , vital signs , personal  आंकड़े  like age and weight , and billing information .
The Mariner up on the  mast  in a storm .
One of the wood-engraved illustrations by Gustave Doré .
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner ( originally The Rime of  the  Ancyent Marinere ) is the longest major poem  by  the English poet Samuel  टेलर   कॉलरिज  , written in 1797–98 and published in  1798  in the first edition of  गीतात्मक  Ballads .
Modern  संस्करण  use a later revised version printed in 1817 that  प्रदर्शित  a gloss .
साथ   साथ  other poems in Lyrical Ballads , it was a signal shift  to  modern poetry and the  शुरूआत   of   अंग्रेजों  Romantic literature .
A proxy auto-config ( PAC  )  file defines how web browsers and other user agents can automatically choose  the   उचित  proxy  सर्वर  ( access method ) for fetching a given  url  .
A PAC file contains a JavaScript function “FindProxyForURL (  url  , host )  ”   .
This  फलन  returns a string with one or more access method specifications  .
These specifications cause the user agent to use a particular proxy server or  to  connect directly .
Multiple specifications provide a fall-back when a proxy fails to respond .
The browser fetches this PAC file before requesting other URLs .
The URL of the PAC file is either configured manually or determined automatically by the  वेब  Proxy Autodiscovery  प्रोटोकॉल  .
Zendaya Coleman ( born September 1 , 1996  )  , known mononymously as Zendaya  ,  is an  अमरीकी  actress , singer  और  dancer .
she stars on the Disney Channel sitcom Shake It Up as  रॉकी  Blue .
She has starred in two films and played one of the lead roles in the film Frenemies as Halley Brandon .
She voiced  फर्न   in  the Pixie Hollow Games .
She appeared in  शुभ  Luck Charlie as Rocky Blue and  in  a Good Luck Charlie and Shake It  up  crossover title  चार्ली  Shake It Up .
She appeared on PrankStars as herself in the episode `` Walk The Prank  ''  and on A.N.T .  फार्म   as  Sequoia Jones in the episode ``  रचनात्मक  ConsultANT . ''
Zendaya is also a musician .
She  हस्ताक्षरित  a deal with Hollywood Records on August 8 , 2012 and  प्रारंभ  recording songs for her debut album on August 12  ,  2012 .
She  released  a single from an  स्वतंत्र  label  पुकारा  `` Swag  it  Out `` and another single with Bella Thorne called `` Watch Me , ''  जिससे  is featured on the Break It Down album .
On March 20 , 2012 , Zendaya and  बेला  Thorne  released  an album  साथ  called Shake It Up : Live 2 Dance  ,  each  have  their own song on it , along with  a  mash-up of both songs together as one .
On August  21  , 2012 , Zendaya and Bella  thorne  released an EP called Shake It Up : Made  in   जापानी  .
zendaya   रै  a Christmas song called `` Shake Santa Shake , ''  जिससे   is  on the Disney Channel Holiday Playlist CD , which was released on October 2 , 2012 .
On March 5  ,  2013 the third  शेक  It Up  साउंडट्रैक  was released , entitled I <  3  Dance ; on it , Zendaya has two songs with Bella - `` Contagious Love ''  और  `` This Is My  नृत्य   मंजिल  '' - as well as one solo song , `` Beat  of  My  ढोल  . ''
This is a list of airports in Pennsylvania ( a U.S. state  )  , grouped by type  और  sorted  by  location  .
It contains all public-use and military airports in the state .
Some private-use and former  एयरपोर्ट   may  be included where notable , such as airports that were  previously  public-use  ,  those with commercial enplanements recorded by the FAA or airports assigned an IATA airport code .
iOS ( previously iPhone OS ) is a  मोबाईल  operating system developed and distributed by Apple Inc . Originally released in 2007 for the iPhone and iPod Touch platforms , it has been extended to support other Apple devices such as the iPad and Apple TV .
Unlike Microsoft 's Windows  फोन  and Google 's Android , Apple  करता  not license iOS for installation on non-Apple hardware .
, Apple 's App Store contained more than 700,000 iOS applications , which have collectively been downloaded more  than  30 billion times .
It had a 21  %  share of  the  smartphone mobile operating system units shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012 , behind only Google  's  Android .
In June 2012 ,  it   accounted  for 65 % of mobile web data consumption ( including use on both the iPod  टच   और  the iPad  )  .
At the half of  2012   ,  there were 410 million devices activated .
According to the special media  इवेंट  held by Apple on September 12 , 2012 , 400 million devices have been sold through June 2012 .
The user interface of iOS is based on the concept of direct manipulation , using multi-touch gestures .
Interface control elements  consist  of sliders , switches , and buttons .
Interaction with the OS includes  इशारों  such as swipe , tap , pinch , and reverse pinch ,  सब  of  जिससे  have  विशिष्ट  definitions within the  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  of the  आईओएस   ऑपरेटिंग  system and its multi-touch interface .
आतंरिक  accelerometers  हैं  used by some applications to respond to shaking the device ( one common result is the undo command  )  or rotating  it  in three dimensions ( one common result is switching  इससे  portrait to landscape mode ) .
iOS is derived  इससे  OS X , with  जिससे  it shares the Darwin  न्यास  .
iOS  is  Apple 's mobile version of the OS X operating system  प्रयुक्त   on  Apple computers  .
In iOS , there are four abstraction layers : the Core  os  layer , the  कोर  Services layer , the Media layer , and the Cocoa Touch layer .
The current version of the operating system ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 GB of the  यंत्र  's flash memory for the system partition  ,  using roughly 800 MB of that  विभाजन  ( varying  by  model ) for iOS itself  .
iOS currently runs on iPhone  ,  iPad , iPod touch and Apple TV .
The Plymouth Superbird is famous for its extremely high rear  wing   .
1987 Audi Sport QuattroS1 with its  विशाल  wings at Pikes Peak
a  spoiler is an automotive aerodynamic  यंत्र  whose intended design function is to 'spoil ' unfavorable air movement across  a  body of a vehicle in motion , usually described as turbulence or drag .
Spoilers on the front of a vehicle are often  पुकारा  air dams , because in  जोड  to  directing  air  प्रवाह  they also reduce the amount of air flowing underneath the vehicle which generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag .
Spoilers are often fitted to race and high-performance sports cars , although they have become common on passenger vehicles as well .
कुछ  spoilers are added to cars primarily for  स्टाइलिंग  purposes  और  have either little aerodynamic  लाभ  or  भी  make  the  aerodynamics worse .
Spoilers for cars are often incorrectly confused with ,  or  the term used interchangeably with  ,  wings .
ऑटोमोटिव  wings are devices  जिनकी  intended design is to generate downforce as air passes around them , not simply disrupt  मौजूदा  airflow patterns .
Mario , who serves as Nintendo 's mascot , is a fictional character created by game  पंक्तियां  Shigeru  miyamoto  and voiced  by  Charles Martinet .
This  is  a list of video games where  the  character Mario plays a part , either as  the  protagonist , antagonist , supporting character , as part of an ensemble cast , as a cameo  ,   or  in a game within  a  game .
it  does not include simple  सन्दर्भ  to the character ,  ऐसे  as the portraits of Mario found in The  लेजेंड  of Zelda  :  A Link to the Past .
the  year indicated is the year the game was first released , most commonly in Japan ; games were sometimes released  सालो  later in other regions of the world .
The  सूची  includes ports , remakes and compilations .
It does n't include any Virtual Console re-releases .
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` I  am  A Man  of  Constant  विषाद  '' ) is a  परंपरागत  American folk song first recorded by Dick Burnett , a partially blind fiddler from Kentucky  .
The song was originally recorded  by  Burnett as `` Farewell Song '' printed in a Richard Burnett songbook  ,  circa 1913 .
An early version was recorded by Emry Arthur  in  1928 ( Vocalion Vo 5208 ) .
Public interest in the song was renewed after the release of  the  2000 film O Brother , Where Art Thou ?
, as it plays a central role in the film 's plot .
The song was also included in the film 's highly successful ,  multiple-platinum  selling soundtrack .
Josephson junction array chip developed by  the  National Bureau of Standards as a standard volt
The volt ( symbol : V  )  is the SI derived unit  लिये   इलेक्ट्रिक  potential ( voltage ) , electric potential difference , and electromotive force  .
The  वोल्ट  is named in  सम्मान  of the Italian physicist Alessandro Volta  (  1745–1827 ) , who invented the  वोल्टायिक  pile , possibly the first chemical battery .
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in  1987  , before steps were removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914 , Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne , and his wife , Sophie ,  duchess  of Hohenberg , were shot dead in Sarajevo , by Gavrilo Princip , one of a group of six Bosnian  serb  assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
The political objective of  the  assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so  वे   could  be  संयुक्त  into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia .
The assassins ' motives were  सतत  with the movement that later  became   ज्ञात  as Young Bosnia .
Serbian military officers stood  पीछे   the  attack .
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević ,  उसके   righthand  man  प्रमुख  Vojislav Tankosić , and Masterspy Rade Malobabić .
Major Tankosić armed the assassins with bombs and pistols and trained them .
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and agents that  rade  Malobabić used for  the  infiltration of weapons and operatives  into  Austria-Hungary .
The assassins  ,  the key members of the clandestine tunnel , and the key Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested  ,  tried , convicted and punished .
those  who were arrested in Bosnia were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914 .
The other conspirators were arrested  और  tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators  .
Much of what is known about the assassinations comes from these two trials and related records .
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of World War I one month later .
मिशन  San Juan Capistrano was a Spanish mission in Southern California , located in present-day San Juan Capistrano .
It was founded on All Saints ' Day November 1  ,  1776 , by Spanish Catholics  of  the Franciscan Order .
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano , a 15th century theologian and `` warrior priest '' who resided in the Abruzzo  प्रदेश  of Italy , San Juan Capistrano has the  भेद  of being  घर  to the oldest building in California  स्टिल  in use  ,  a chapel  निर्मित  in  1782  .
Known alternately as `` Serra 's Chapel '' and `` Father Serra 's  गिरिजाघर  , '' it is the only extant structure  जहाँ  it has been documented that the padre Junipero Serra  मनाये  mass .
One of the best known of the Alta California missions ( and one  of  the few  मिशन  to have actually been founded twice—others  होने  Mission San Gabriel Arcángel and Mission  la   purísima  Concepción ) .
The site was originally consecrated on  अक्तूबर  30 , 1775 , by Father Fermín Lasuén , but was quickly  abandoned  due to unrest among the indigenous population in San Diego .
The success of the settlement is evident  in  its  ऐतिहासिक  records .
Prior  to   the   आगमन  of the missionaries , some 550 natives were scattered throughout the  लोकल  area .
By 1790 , the number of converted Christians  था  grown to 700 , and just six years later nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` (  हाल  converts ) lived in  or  around the Mission compound .
1,649 baptisms were conducted that year alone , out of the total 4,639 souls converted between 1776 and 1847 .
More than 2,000  पूर्व  inhabitants (  ज़्यादातर  Juaneño Indians ) are buried  in  unmarked graves in the Mission 's cemetery ( campo santo ) .
The remains of Father ( later Monsignor ) St. John O'Sullivan , who recognized the property 's historic value and working  tirelessly  to conserve and rebuild its structures , are buried at the  प्रवेश  to the cemetery on the west side of the  प्रॉपर्टी  , and a statue raised in his honor stands at the head of the crypt .
The surviving chapel also  serves   as   the  final resting place of three  पैड्रेस   जो  passed on while serving at the Mission : Fathers José Barona , Vicente Fustér , and Vicente  पास्कुआल  Oliva are all  entombed  beneath the sanctuary floor  .
the  Criolla or `` Mission grape , '' was first planted at San Juan  capistrano  in  1779  ; in 1783 ,  the  first  वाइन  produced in Alta California emerged from the Mission  's   वाइनरी  .
The Mission entered a  long  period of gradual decline after secularization in  1833   .
Numerous efforts were made over the years to restore the Mission to its former glory , but  none  met with great  कामयाबी  until the arrival  of  Father O'Sullivan in 1910 .
Restoration efforts continue , and `` Serra 's Chapel '' is still used for religious services .
About half-a-million visitors , including 80,000 school children , come to  the  Mission each year .
And while the ruins of `` The Great Stone Church ''  (   जिससे  was all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake ) are  a  renowned architectural wonder , the Mission is  शायद  best known for the annual `` Return of the Swallows  ''  which is traditionally observed every March  19  ( Saint  जोसेफ  's  दिन  ) .
Mission San Juan Capistrano  रै  served as a favorite subject for many notable artists , and has been immortalized in  साहित्य  and on film numerous times , perhaps more than any other mission .
In 1984 , a modern church complex  थी  constructed just north and west of the Mission compound and is  अभी  known as Mission Basilica San Juan  capistrano  .
Today ,  the  mission compound serves  as  a museum ,  साथ  the Serra Chapel within the compound serving as a chapel for the  मिशन  parish .
Better Off Dead is a 1985  अमरीकी  teen romantic comedy film starring John Cusack  और  written and directed by Savage Steve Holland .
It tells the story of high school student Lane Myer who is suicidal after  उसके  girlfriend breaks up with him .
Mercedes-Benz Superdome ( originally Louisiana Superdome and commonly The Superdome ) is a sports and exhibition stadium , located in the Central Business District of New Orleans , Louisiana , USA  .
Plans were drawn up  in  1967 , by the New Orleans  modernist  architectural firm  of  Curtis and Davis .
Its steel frame covers a expanse .
Its dome is made of a Lamella multi-ringed frame and has a diameter of , making it the  largest  fixed  domed  structure in the world .
It is  घर  to the NFL 's New Orleans  संतो  , the NCAA 's Division I-A Tulane  ग्रीन  Wave football team ( the largest football stadium in Conference USA )  ,  the State Farm Bayou  क्लासिक   ,  the R+L Carriers New Orleans Bowl  ,   the  Allstate Sugar Bowl and , every fourth year , the  bcs  National Championship Game .
Because of the size and location  in  one of the  प्रमुख  tourist destinations in the United States , the Superdome routinely makes the `` short list '' of candidates being  माना  for major sporting events , such as the Super Bowl and the Final  चार  .
In 2005  ,  the Superdome gained international attention of a different type when  it  housed thousands of people  seeking  shelter from Hurricane Katrina .
The building suffered extensive damage as a result  of  the storm ,  और  was closed for many  महीने  afterward .
on  October 3 , 2011 ,  it  was announced that German automaker  mercedes-benz   खरीदा  naming rights to the stadium .
The new  नाम  took effect on October  23   ,  2011 .
it  is the third stadium that has naming rights from Mercedes-Benz ( and first in the United States ) , after  the  Mercedes-Benz Arena , the  स्टेडियम  of Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart , in Stuttgart , Germany  और  the Mercedes-Benz  एरिना  in  शंघाई  , China .
Lobby of Jambo House
Giraffe on the savannah at Jambo House
Disney 's  एनिमल  Kingdom Lodge is an African-themed deluxe resort at  the  Walt Disney World Resort .
It opened  on  April 16 , 2001 .
The resort is owned and operated by Walt Disney Parks and Resorts .
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is located in the Animal Kingdom Resort Area , adjacent to  डिज़्नी  's Animal Kingdom .
It gives  अतिथि  the opportunity to view  चरने  wildlife outside their rooms and public areas in the resort within proximity of the animals , conveying the  अहसास  of being in an African savanna .
The People 's  पार्टी  , also known as the `` Populists  ''  ,  थी  a short-lived political party in the United States  स्थापित  in 1891 during the Populist movement ( United States , 19th  सदी  ) .
It was most important in 1892-96 , and then rapidly faded away .
Based among poor , white cotton farmers  in  the South ( especially North  कैरोलिना  , Alabama , and Texas ) and hard-pressed wheat farmers in the plains states ( especially Kansas  और  Nebraska ) , it represented a radical crusading form of agrarianism and hostility to banks , railroads , and elites generally .
It sometimes formed coalitions with labor unions , and in 1896 the Democrats endorsed their presidential  nominee  , William Jennings Bryan .
The terms `` populist '' and `` populism `` are commonly used for anti-elitist appeals in  विपक्ष  to established interests and  मुख्यधारा  parties .
Linguistic map of Nigeria , Cameroon , and Benin .
Sign  in  English , outside the University of Lagos
There are  सैंकड़ों  of languages spoken in Nigeria .
The major languages are Yoruba , Hausa  ,  Igbo , Edo ,  fulfulde  , Kanuri , and Ibibio .
The official language of Nigeria , English  ,  the former colonial language , was chosen to facilitate the cultural  और   भाषाई  unity of the country .
अंग्रेज़ी  ,  however  , remains an exclusive  बचाना  of the country 's  शहरी  elite ,  और  is not widely spoken in rural areas , which comprise three quarters of the countries  जनसांख्यिकी  .
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is  a  microcosm of Africa as a whole , encompassing three major African languages families : Afroasiatic , Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo  .
सीरियल  also has several  as-yet  unclassified languages , such as Cen Tuum , which may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current language families .
A series of events led to the attack on Pearl Harbor .
युद्ध   between   जापानी  and the United States  था  been a possibility  कि   प्रत्येक   स्वदेश  's military forces planned for since the 1920s , though real tension  किया  not begin until the  1931  invasion of Manchuria by Japan .
over  the next decade  ,  Japan expanded slowly into China , leading to all out war  between   the  two  in  1937  .
In 1940 Japan invaded French Indochina in an effort to embargo all imports  into   चीन  , including war supplies purchased from the U.S .
This  मूव  prompted the  संयुक्त  States to embargo all oil  निर्यात  , leading the Imperial Japanese Navy to estimate that it had less  than  two years of bunker oil remaining and to support the existing plans to seize oil resources in the Dutch East Indies .
Planning had been underway for some time on an attack on the `` Southern Resource Area ''  to  add it to the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere that Japan envisioned in the Pacific .
The Philippine islands , at that time an American  territory  ,  यहूद  also a Japanese target .
The Japanese military concluded that an  आक्रमण   of   the   फिलीपीन   होता  provoke  an  American military response .
Rather than seize and fortify  the  islands , and wait for the inevitable US counterattack ,  जापानी  's military leaders instead decided on the  pre-emptive  Pearl Harbor attack , which they assumed would negate the American forces needed for the liberation and  reconquest  of  the  islands .
Planning for the attack had begun in very early 1941 , by Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto .
He finally won assent from the Naval High Command by , among other things , threatening to resign .
The attack was approved in the summer at an Imperial Conference and again at a second Conference in the fall .
Simultaneously over the year , pilots were trained , and ships  prepared  for its execution  .
Authority for the attack was granted at the second  इम्पीरियल  Conference if a diplomatic result satisfactory to Japan was  नहीं  reached .
बाद  final approval by Emperor Hirohito the order  to   आक्रमण  was issued at the  शुरूआत  of December .
A common office stapler
A  आम  school stapler
A  stapler  is a mechanical device that joins sheets of paper  or  similar material by driving a thin metal staple  through  the sheets and folding the ends .
Staplers are widely used in government , business , offices , homes and schools .
The word `` stapler  ''  can actually refer to a  क्रमांक  of different devices of varying uses .
In addition to joining paper sheets together  ,  staplers can  भी  be  प्रयुक्त  in a  सर्जिकल  setting to join tissue together with  सर्जिकल  staples to close a surgical wound ( much in the same way  as  stitches or sutures ) .
Typically , most staplers are used to join  अनेक  sheets of paper .
Paper staplers come in two distinct types : manual and electric .
हस्तचालित  staplers are normally hand-held , although models that are used while set on a desk or other surface are not uncommon .
Electric staplers exist in a variety of different designs and models .
Their  प्राथमिक  operating function is to join large numbers of paper sheets together in rapid succession .
Some electric staplers can join up to 20 sheets at a time .
Swallowing , known scientifically as deglutition , is the process in the human or animal body  कि  makes something pass from the  मुँह  , to the pharynx , and into the  ग्रासनाल  , while shutting the epiglottis .
If this fails and the object goes through the trachea , then choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur .
In the  इंसान  body it is controlled by the swallowing reflex .
Thaddeus Stevens ( April  4  , 1792 – August 11  ,  1868 )  ,  of Pennsylvania , was a leader of the Radical  रिपब्लिकन  faction  of  the Republican Party and a fierce opponent of slavery .
He  थी  one of the most  influential  members in the history of Congress .
As chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee , Stevens ,  a  witty , sarcastic  स्पीकर   और   flamboyant  party leader , dominated the House from 1861 until  उसके  death .
He wrote much of the financial legislation that paid for the American Civil War  .
Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner were  the  prime leaders of the Radical Republicans during  the  war and Reconstruction era .
scholarly   दृश्य  of Stevens have swung sharply since his death as interpretations of Reconstruction have changed .
Historians  of  the  dunning  School ( 1890s–1940s ) held Stevens responsible for demanding harsh treatment of the white South and violating American traditions of republicanism , depicting  स्टीवंस  as a villain for his advocacy of harsh measures in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates  .
This  अत्यधिक  negative characterization held sway into the  1950s  .
The rise  of  the neo-abolitionist school in the 1950s led to a strong positive  सराहना  of  स्टीवंस  ' work on civil  अधिकारों  for Freedmen  .
A recent biographer characterizes him as , `` The Great Commoner , savior of free public education in Pennsylvania , national Republican  नेता  in the struggles against slavery in the  संयुक्त  States and intrepid  mainstay  of the attempt  to  secure racial justice for the Freedmen during Reconstruction , the only member of the House of Representatives  कभी   to  have been known as the 'dictator ' of  कॉंग्रेस  . ''
Overview of the translation of eukaryotic messenger RNA
Diagram showing the translation of mRNA and the  संश्लेषण  of proteins by a ribosome
In molecular biology and genetics , translation is the process through which cellular ribosomes manufacture proteins .
It is part of the process of gene  अभिव्यक्ति  .
in   अनुवाद  , messenger RNA ( mRNA ) produced by transcription is decoded by the ribosome to produce a  विशिष्ट   अमीनो  acid chain , or polypeptide , that will later fold into an active protein .
In bacteria , translation occurs in the cell 's cytoplasm , where the large and small subunits of the ribosome are located , and bind to the mRNA .
In eukaryotes , translation occurs across the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum in a process called vectorial synthesis .
The ribosome facilitates decoding by inducing the binding of tRNAs with complementary anticodon sequences to that of the mRNA .
The tRNAs carry specific  अमीनो  acids  कि  are chained together into a polypeptide as the mRNA passes through and  is   ``  read '' by the ribosome in a fashion reminiscent  to  that of a stock  टिकर  and ticker tape .
in  many instances , the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds  to   the  outer membrane  of  the  अशिष्ट  endoplasmic reticulum and releases the nascent protein  polypeptide  inside for later vesicle transport  और  secretion outside  of  the cell .
Many types of transcribed RNA , such as transfer RNA , ribosomal RNA , and small  नाभिकीय  RNA , do  नहीं  undergo translation  into  proteins  .
Translation  proceeds  in four phases : initiation , elongation  ,  translocation and termination  (  all describing the growth of the amino acid chain , or polypeptide that is the  उत्पाद   of  translation ) .
Amino acids are  brought  to ribosomes and assembled into  प्रोटीन   .
In  सक्रियण  , the correct amino acid is covalently bonded to  the  correct transfer RNA ( tRNA ) .
The amino  एसिड  is joined by its carboxyl group to the 3  '  OH of the tRNA by an ester bond .
When the tRNA has an amino acid  linked  to it , it is termed  ``  charged '' .
Initiation involves  the  small subunit of the ribosome binding to  the  5 ' end of mRNA with the help of initiation  कारकों  ( IF ) .
Termination of the polypeptide happens  जब  the A site of the ribosome faces a stop codon ( UAA , UAG ,  or  UGA ) .
No tRNA  can  recognize or bind to this  codon  .
Instead , the stop codon induces the  बाइंडिंग  of  a  release factor protein that prompts the disassembly of the entire ribosome/mRNA complex .
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting translation ; these include anisomycin  ,  cycloheximide , chloramphenicol  ,  tetracycline , streptomycin , erythromycin , and puromycin , among others .
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different structure from that of eukaryotic ribosomes , and  यूँ  antibiotics can specifically target bacterial infections without any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells .
a  multimedia message  on  a  मोबाईल  phone .
Multimedia Messaging Service ( MMS ) is a standard  रास्ता  to send messages  कि  include multimedia content to and from mobile phones .
It extends the core SMS ( Short Message  सेवा  ) capability that allowed exchange of text messages only up to 160 characters  in  length .
The most popular use is to send photographs from camera-equipped handsets , although it is also popular as a method of delivering news and entertainment content including videos , pictures , text pages and ringtones .
The  मानक  is developed  by  the Open Mobile Alliance ( OMA ) , although during development it was part of the  3gpp  and WAP groups .
smallpox  was an infectious disease unique to humans , caused by either of two virus variants , Variola major  और  Variola minor  .
The disease is also known by the Latin  names  Variola or Variola vera , derived from  varius   (  `` spotted '' ) or varus  (  ``  मुंहासे  '' ) .
The disease was originally known in English as the `` pox  ''  or `` red plague '' ; the  पद  `` smallpox '' was  पहला  used in Britain in the 15th century to distinguish variola from  the  `` great pox '' ( syphilis )  .
The last  naturally  occurring case of smallpox ( Variola minor  )  was diagnosed on 26 October 1977 .
Smallpox localized in small blood  बरतन  of  the  skin and  in  the  मुँह   और  throat  .
In the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular rash and , later , raised fluid-filled blisters .
V. major produces a more serious disease and has an overall mortality rate of 30–35 % .
V. minor causes a milder form of disease ( also known  as   alastrim  , cottonpox , milkpox , whitepox , and Cuban itch ) which kills about 1  %  of its victims .
Long-term complications  of  V. major infection include  characteristic  scars , commonly on the face , which occur in 65–85 % of survivors .
Blindness resulting from corneal ulceration and scarring , and limb deformities  due  to  गठिया  and osteomyelitis are  कम  common complications , seen in  परिचय  2–5 % of cases .
Smallpox is  believed  to have emerged in human populations about  10,000  BC .
The earliest physical evidence of it is probably the  pustular  rash on the mummified body of  pharaoh  Ramses V of Egypt .
The disease killed an estimated 400,000 Europeans annually during  the  closing years of the 18th century ( including five  reigning  monarchs ) , and was responsible for a third of all blindness  .
Of all those infected , 20–60 % —and over 80  %   of  infected children—died from the disease .
Smallpox was responsible for an estimated 300–500 million deaths during the 20th  सदी  .
As recently as 1967 , the World Health Organization ( WHO ) estimated that 15 million people contracted the disease and that two million died in that year .
After vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th centuries , the WHO certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979  .
Smallpox is one of two infectious diseases to have  महरूम   eradicated  ,  the  other being rinderpest , which was declared eradicated in 2011 .
``  i  Want to Hold Your Hand '' is a song by the English rock band the Beatles  .
Written by John  लेनन  and Paul McCartney , and recorded in October 1963 , it was the  पहला  Beatles record  to  be made using four-track equipment .
With advance orders exceeding one million copies in the United Kingdom , `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' would ordinarily have gone straight to  the  top of the British record charts on  इसके  day of  रिलीज  ( 29 November 1963 ) had it not been blocked by the group 's first million seller  ``  She Loves You `` , the Beatles ' previous UK single ,  जिससे  was having a resurgent  वर्तनी  in the top position  following  intense media coverage of the group .
Taking two weeks to  dislodge  its predecessor , `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' stayed at number one for five weeks and remained in the UK top fifty for twenty-one weeks  in  total .
It was  भी  the group 's first American number  एक  , entering the Billboard Hot 100 chart on 18 January 1964 at number forty-five and starting the British invasion of the American music industry .
By 1 February it held the  क्रमांक  one  स्पॉट  — for seven weeks — before being replaced by `` She Loves You '' ,  a   रिवर्स  scenario of what had occurred in Britain , and remained in the US charts for a total of fifteen weeks  .
``  i  Want to Hold  अपना  Hand '' became the  बीटल्स  ' best-selling single worldwide .
A gasser was a  प्रकार  of hot rod originating on the dragstrips of the United States in the late 1950s  और  continued until the  जल्दी   1970s  .
Gassers  यहूद  based on production models from  the  1930s to mid-1960s , which have been stripped of extraneous weight and jacked up using a truck beam axle to provide better weight distribution on acceleration ( Beam axles are also lighter than an independent front  बर्खास्तगी  ) , though a raised stock front suspension is common as well .
आम  weight reduction techniques include fiberglass body panels , stripped interiors and plexiglass windows  (  sometimes  रंग  tinted ) .
Because they were primarily built  लिये  racing ,  ये   गाड़ियाँ  typically had the engine swapped to a larger or more powerful one ,  the  existing stock engine modified ( often heavily ) or both .
It was very common to fit a Roots supercharger and mechanical  ईंधन  injection , such as one from Algon , Hilborn , or Crower .
With form being dictated by function , their appearance is often  बहुत   शीर्ष  heavy and ungainly , largely due to front ends being  उठाया  higher than stock , to assist in the  वज़न  transfer during rapid acceleration ( racing ) .
Having their exhaust pipes exit through the  सामने  fender  खूब  is a common characteristic of gassers , as is  having   लाशें  painted in flamboyant metalflakes  ,  pearls , and candy finishes complemented by lettering in wild fonts .
The  नाम  arose because they  competed   in  a gasoline  -fueled  drag racing class , rather than  एक  using methanol or nitromethane .
The gasser is the  पूर्ववर्ती  of the modern Funny Car .
Twelve-lead EKG of a 26-year-old male
Electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is  a  transthoracic ( across the thorax or chest ) interpretation of the  विद्युत  activity  of  the heart over a period of time , as detected by electrodes attached to the surface of the skin and recorded by a  यंत्र  external to the body .
The recording produced by this noninvasive procedure is termed an electrocardiogram (  भी  ECG or EKG ) .
an  ECG is  प्रयुक्त   to  measure  the   रेट  and regularity of heartbeats , as well as  the  size and position of the chambers  ,  the presence of any damage to the  दिल  , and the effects of drugs  or  devices used to regulate the heart , such as a  pacemaker  .
Most ECGs are performed for diagnostic or research purposes on human hearts , but may also be performed on animals , usually for diagnosis of heart  abnormalities  or research .
Donald John Trump  ,  Sr. (  born  June 14 , 1946 ) is an American business magnate , television personality  और  author .
He is  the  chairman and president of The Trump Organization and the founder of  ट्रम्प  Entertainment Resorts  .
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle , outspoken manner , and  भूमिका  on the NBC reality show The  प्रशिक्षु  have made  उसे  a well-known  हस्ती  who was No  .  14 on  the  2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list  .
Trump is the son of Fred Trump , a wealthy New York  नगर  real-estate developer .
He worked for his father 's firm , Elizabeth Trump & Son , while attending the Wharton  स्कूल  of the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Pennsylvania  ,  and in 1968 officially joined the company .
he  was given control of the company in 1971 and renamed it The  ट्रम्प  Organization .
In 2010 , Trump expressed an interest in becoming a candidate  लिये  president of the United States in the  2012  election  ,  though in May 2011 , he announced he would  नहीं  be a candidate  .
In December 2011 , Trump was suggested as a possible vice  अध्यक्षीय  selection by Michele Bachmann , if  वो  were to win the Republican nomination .
`` A Change Is Gon  na  Come  ''  is a 1964 single by R & B singer-songwriter Sam Cooke , written and first recorded  in  1963 and released  अंतर्गत  the RCA Victor label shortly after his death in late 1964 .
Though only a modest hit for Cooke in comparison with his previous singles , the song came to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement .
The song has gained in popularity and critical acclaim in the decades since its release ,  और  is # 12 on Rolling Stone 's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time .
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir  geothermal  Power Station in Iceland .
geothermal  energy is thermal energy generated and stored in the Earth .
Thermal  उर्जा  is the energy that determines the temperature of matter .
The Geothermal energy of  the  Earth 's crust originates from the original formation of the planet ( 20  %  ) and from radioactive decay  of  minerals ( 80 % ) .
The  geothermal  gradient ,  जिससे  is the difference  in  temperature between the core of the planet and its surface , drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface .
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη ( ge ) , meaning earth ,  और  θερμος ( thermos ) , meaning hot  .
At the core of the Earth , thermal energy  is   निर्मित  by radioactive decay and temperatures  may  reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ) .
Heat  conducts  from the core to  surrounding  cooler rock .
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt , creating magma  संवहन  upward since it is lighter than the solid rock .
The magma  heats  rock and water in the crust , sometimes  up  to 370 °C ( 700 °F ) .
From hot springs , geothermal  उर्जा  has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman times , but it is now better known for electricity generation .
Worldwide , about 10,715  megawatts  ( MW ) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries .
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity  is  installed for  ज़िला  heating , space heating , spas , industrial processes , desalination and agricultural applications .
Geothermal power is cost effective , reliable , sustainable , and environmentally friendly , but has historically  महरूम  limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries .
Recent technological advances  have  dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources , especially  लिये   अनुप्रयोग  such  as  home heating  ,  opening a  संभावित  for widespread exploitation .
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth  ,  but these emissions are much lower per energy unit  than  those  of  fossil fuels .
as   a  result , geothermal power has the potential to help  mitigate  global warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate  to  supply humanity 's energy needs , but only a very small  भिन्न  may be profitably exploited .
Drilling and  खोजी  for deep resources is very expensive .
Forecasts for the future  of  geothermal power depend on assumptions about technology , energy prices , subsidies  ,  and interest rates .
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power  कार्यक्रम  show that customers would be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal .
But as a  परिणाम  of government assisted research  और  industry experience , the cost of generating  geothermal   शक्ति  has decreased  by  25 % over the past two decades .
In 2001 , geothermal  उर्जा  cost between two and ten cents per kwh .
Ownership of property may be private ,  सामूहिक  , or common and the property may be objects ,  land/real  estate , or intellectual property .
Determining ownership  in  law involves determining who has certain rights and duties over the property  .
These rights and  कर्तव्य   ,   sometimes  called a 'bundle of rights ' , can be separated and  आयोजित   by   अलग  parties  .
The question of ownership reaches back to the ancient philosophers , Plato and Aristotle , who held  अलग  opinions on the subject .
Plato ( 428/427 BC  –  348/347 BC ) thought private property created divisive inequalities  ,  while Aristotle ( 384 BC  –  322  bc  )  विचार  private property  सक्रिय  people to  प्राप्त  the full benefit of their labor .
Private property can circumvent what is now referred to as the “ tragedy of the commons ” problem , where people tend to degrade common property more than they do private property .
Given a short-sighted owner , however ,  a  private  प्रॉपर्टी   प्रणाली  can  मेक  these tragedies worse—for example  ,  a  निजी  owner of a piece of oil-rich  प्रॉपर्टी  , depending on his worldview ,  might   be  more interested in short-term  वित्तीय  gain than incremental use  साथ  an eye toward other 's concerns ( e.g. , those of future generations , the disenfranchised ,  इत्यादि  . ) .
While Aristotle justified the existence of  निजी  ownership , he  बाएँ  open questions of ( 1 ) how to allocate property between what is private and common and ( 2 ) how to  allocate  the private property within society .
Over the millennia , and across cultures what can be property and how it is regarded culturally have varied widely .
स्वामित्व  is the basis for many other  अवधारणाओं  that form the  मूलाधार  of ancient and modern societies such as money , trade , debt  ,  bankruptcy , the  criminality  of theft , and private vs. public property .
Ownership is the key  भवन  block in the development of  the  capitalist socio-economic system .
Adam Smith stated that one of the  पवित्र  laws of justice was to guard a  व्यक्ति  's property and possessions .
The process  और  mechanics of  स्वामित्व  are  fairly  complex : one can gain , transfer  और  lose  स्वामित्व  of property in a number of ways .
To acquire property one can purchase it  साथ  money , trade it  लिये  other  प्रॉपर्टी   ,  receive it as a gift , steal it , find it , make , it or homestead it .
एक  can transfer or lose ownership of property by  selling  it for  धन  , exchanging it for other property , giving it as a gift , being robbed of it , it , or having  it  stripped from one 's ownership through legal means such as eviction , foreclosure , seizure , or taking .
Ownership is  self-propagating  in that the owner of  कोई  property will also own the  आर्थिक  benefits of  कि  property  .
`` What 's My Name ? '' is a song recorded by Barbadian recording artist  रिहाना  , for her fifth studio album Loud ( 2010 ) .
Featuring guest  vocals  from Canadian rapper Drake , the song was released as the second single from Loud on October 29 , 2010  through  Def Jam Recordings .
The R  &  B song was produced by  the  Norwegian production duo StarGate , and was written by the duo along with Ester Dean , Traci Hale , and Drake .
lyrically  , it incorporates themes of sexual intercourse and romance .
Music critics gave the  सोंग  positive reviews , citing it some of Rihanna 's best vocal  कार्य  to date  ;  there was a praise regarding its romantic nature , as well as its sexual tones .
`` What 's  my  Name ? '' was a  वाणिज्यिक  success and topped the US Billboard Hot 100 chart , giving Rihanna her third  number-one  single in 2010 , as well as her eighth overall on the chart .
The song  भी  topped the charts in Hungary and the United Kingdom and reached the top five in Canada , Ireland , New Zealand , Norway and Slovakia .
The song received a nomination at the 54th Grammy Awards  लिये  Best Rap/Sung Collaboration .
An accompanying music video , directed by Philip Andelman  ,  portrays a romantic encounter between Rihanna and  ड्रेक  in a grocery store along with romantic scenes between the pair and Rihanna walking through  मैनहटन  's Lower East Side .
`` What 's My Name ?  ''  was promoted with live performances across both sides of the Atlantic ,  सहित   शनिवार   रात्रि  Live in America and the series seven finale of  the  X Factor in the United Kingdom .
The latter performance resulted in an investigation from the country 's media regulator , Ofcom , for the raunchy nature of Rihanna 's outfit .
A mathematical constant is a special number , usually a real number ,  कि  is  ``  significantly interesting in some way '' .
Constants arise in many  अलग  areas of mathematics , with constants such as e ( mathematical constant ) | and pi| occurring in such diverse  contexts  as geometry , number theory and calculus .
What it means for a constant to arise ``  naturally   ''  , and what makes a constant `` interesting '' , is ultimately a matter of taste , and some mathematical constants are  notable  more for historical reasons than for their  मूलभूत  mathematical interest .
The  अधिक  popular constants have been studied throughout the ages and computed to many decimal places .
All mathematical constants are definable numbers and usually are also computable numbers  (  Chaitin 's constant being a significant exception ) .
Elections to the United  राज्य  Senate  यहूद  held on November 2 , 2010 , for 37  of  the United States Senate 's 100 seats .
( A special election on January 19 , 2010 in Massachusetts was held earlier in the year . )
Thirty-four of the seats  यहूद   लिये   six-year  terms to  the  Senate 's `` class three '' , and three  यहूद   खास  elections for shorter terms .
Of the 37 elections , 19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7  of  whom retired or were defeated in the  प्राथमिक  ) and 18  प्रदर्शित  incumbent Republicans ( eight of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ) .
After  the  previous elections ( in 2008 ) , the United  राज्य  Senate was composed of 58 Democrats , 40 Republicans , and 2 independents who  caucus  with the Democrats .
republicans  won four seats held by  retiring  Democrats and Republicans defeated two incumbent Democrats .
This was  the  largest number of  republicans  gains  चूंकि  the 1994 elections and  भी  the first time since that election that Republicans successfully defended all of their own seats .
This  थी  the fourth consecutive election of ``  क्लास  3 '' senators  जहाँ  Democrats have failed to  लाभ  seats and the third  लगातार  mid-term election held in a president 's first term where Republicans have  picked-up  seats .
Despite  ये  Republican wins ,  however  , the Democrats retained a majority of the  सीनेट   साथ  51 seats plus 2 independents who caucus  साथ  them , compared to the 47 Republicans .
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice each  साल  as the  सूर्य  reaches its highest or lowest excursion relative to the celestial equator on the celestial sphere  .
As a result  ,  on the day of the solstice , the Sun  appears  to have  पहुँचे  its highest or lowest annual altitude in  the  sky  ऊपर  the horizon at local solar  नून  .
The word solstice is derived from the Latin sol ( sun ) and  sistere  ( to stand still )  ,  because at the solstices , the Sun stands still in declination ; that is , the seasonal movement of the Sun 's path  (  as seen from Earth ) comes to a stop before reversing direction .
The solstices , together with the equinoxes , are connected with the seasons .
In many cultures the  solstices  mark either the beginning or the midpoint  of  winter and  गर्मियाँ  .
The term solstice can also be used in a broader sense , as the  तिथि  ( day ) when this occurs .
The day of the solstice is either the longest day of the year ( in summer ) or the shortest day of the year ( in winter ) for any place outside of the tropics .
Jerry Lee Lewis ( born September 29 , 1935 ) is an American rock and roll and country  म्यूज़िक  singer-songwriter and pianist  .
he  is known by the nickname `` The Killer  ''  and is  प्रायः  viewed  as  “rock & roll 's first great wild man” .
An early pioneer of  चट्टान  and roll music  ,  in 1956 Lewis  बना  his first recordings at Sun Records .
``  क्रेजी  Arms  ``  sold 300,000 copies in the South , but it was his  1957  hit `` Whole Lotta Shakin ' Going On `` that shot  लुईस  to fame worldwide .
Lewis followed this in that same year when he recorded songs such as `` Great Balls of Fire ``  ,   ``  Breathless `` and `` High School Confidential `` .
Lewis  बेची  more records than Elvis Presley  at  this time .
however  , Lewis ' rock 'n ' roll career faltered in the  वेक  of his marriage to his young cousin .
He had little success in the charts  following   the  scandal and his popularity quickly faded .
His live performance fees plummeted from $ 10,000 per night to $ 250 .
In the meantime he was  संकल्पित  to gain back  कुछ  of his popularity .
During the early 60’s  he  did n't have much chart success with  few  exceptions such as `` What 'd I Say ``  .
His  सजीव  performances at this time were  increasingly  wild  और  energetic .
His album Live at the Star Club , Hamburg  इससे  1964 is often regarded by many music journalists and fans as one of the wildest  और  greatest rock and roll concert albums ever .
After recording songs such as `` I 'm on Fire '' for several years with  छोटी  success  ,  in 1968 Lewis made a transition into country music and had hits with songs such as `` Another Place , Another Time '' .
This reignited  उसके  career and throughout the late '60s and '70s he regularly topped the country-western  चार्ट  .
His # 1 country hits included `` To Make  प्रेम  Sweeter For You `` , `` There  जरूर  Be  अधिक  to Love Than  इस  `` , `` Would You Take Another  मौका  on Me ``  और  `` Me And Bobby McGee `` .
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the decade and he embraced his rock 'n ' roll past with songs such as a cover of the Big  bopper  's `` Chantilly Lace ``  और  `` Rockin ' My Life Away ``  .
In the 21st century Lewis continues to tour to audiences around the world and still releases new albums .
One such  एल्बम  , titled Last Man Standing , is his best selling to date at over  a  million  नक़ल   बेची  worldwide .
This was followed by  औसत  Old Man which has received some of the best sales of Lewis’s  करियर  .
लुईस  has had  a  dozen gold records in both rock and country , won several Grammy awards , including a Lifetime Achievement Award .
Lewis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of  कीर्ति  in 1986 , and his pioneering contribution to the genre has been recognized by  the  Rockabilly Hall of Fame .
In 1989 , his life was chronicled in the movie Great Balls of Fire , starring Dennis Quaid .
In 2003 , Rolling Stone Magazine listed his box set All Killer , No Filler : The Anthology number 242 on their list of `` 500 greatest albums of  सब  time  ``  .
In 2004 , they ranked him number 24 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time .
Lewis is  the  last surviving member of Sun Records ' Million Dollar Quartet and  the  Class of '55 album , which also included Johnny Cash , Carl  perkins  , Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley .
Henry Louis  स्टीफंस  , untitled watercolor ( 1863 ) of  a   man  reading a newspaper with headline `` Presidential Proclamation / Slavery '' .
The Emancipation Proclamation was an order issued to all segments of the Executive branch (  सहित  the Army and Navy )  of  the United States by  अध्यक्ष  Abraham Lincoln on January 1  ,  1863 , during the American Civil War .
It was based on the president 's constitutional authority as commander in chief of  the  armed  शक्तियां  ; it was not a law passed by Congress .
It proclaimed all those enslaved  in  Confederate territory to be forever free , and ordered the Army ( and all segments of the Executive branch ) to treat as free all those enslaved in ten states that were still in rebellion , thus applying to 3.1 million of  the  4 million slaves in the U.S .
The Proclamation could not be enforced in areas still  अंतर्गत  rebellion , but as the army took control of Confederate regions ,  the  slaves  in  those  regions  were emancipated rather than returned  to  their masters .
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions where rebellion  था  already been subdued were immediately emancipated , and over 3 million more were emancipated as the Union army advanced .
The Proclamation did not apply to the five slave states that were not in rebellion , nor to most regions already controlled by the Union army ; emancipation  वहीँ  would come after separate state actions and/or the  दिसम्बर  1865 ratification  of  the  तेरहवीं  Amendment , which made slavery illegal everywhere  in  the U.S .
The Proclamation did not compensate the owners ,  किया   नहीं  itself outlaw slavery , and did not make the ex-slaves (  पुकारा   freedmen  ) citizens .
It made the eradication of slavery an explicit  युद्ध  goal , in addition to the goal of reuniting the Union .
On  सितंबर  22 , 1862 ,  lincoln  had issued a preliminary proclamation that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state of the Confederate States of America that did not return to Union control by January 1 ,  1863  .
none  returned , and the order , signed and issued January 1 , 1863 , took effect except in locations where the Union  था  already mostly regained  कंट्रोल  .
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who envisioned  a  race war , angered  कुछ  Northern Democrats , energized anti-slavery forces  ,  and weakened forces in Europe that wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy  .
It also lifted the spirits of African  अमेरिकी  both in the Southern and Northern States , and led to many slaves escaping their masters  और  running behind Union lines  in  order to have their emancipation enforced .
Sucker Punch  is  a  2011  American fantasy action film directed by Zack Snyder and co-written by him and Steve Shibuya .
It is Snyder 's first film based on an original script .
The film stars Emily Browning  ,   abbie  Cornish , Jena Malone , Vanessa Hudgens , Jamie Chung ,  और  Carla Gugino .
The storyline follows the fantasies of a young woman who is committed to a mental institution , as she makes a plan to escape the hospital before suffering a lobotomy .
The film was released in both conventional and IMAX theatres in the United States at  मध्यरात्रि  on March 25  ,  2011 .
It  प्राप्त  generally negative reviews from critics  ,  but  थी  a moderate box office success .
Front and back of  canon  PowerShot A95 , a typical pocket-size digital camera
haselblad   503cw  with Ixpress V96C digital back , an example of  a  professional  डिजिटल  camera  प्रणाली
A digital camera ( or digicam )  is  a camera  कि  takes  वीडियो  or still photographs by recording images on an electronic image sensor .
Most cameras sold today are digital , and digital cameras are incorporated  into  many devices  ranging  from PDAs and mobile phones ( called camera phones ) to vehicles  .
Digital and  फिल्मी  cameras share an optical system , typically using a lens with a  परिवर्तनीय  diaphragm to focus  लाइट  onto an image pickup device .
The diaphragm and shutter admit the correct amount of light to the imager , just as with film but the image pickup device is electronic rather than chemical  .
however  , unlike film cameras , digital cameras can display images on a screen immediately after being recorded  ,  and store and delete images from memory .
Many digital cameras can also record moving video with sound .
Some digital cameras  can  crop and stitch pictures and perform other elementary image editing .
The inside and front of a Dell  poweredge  web server , a  कंप्यूटर  designed for  रैक  mounting
Multiple web  सर्वर  may be used for a high traffic website , here four Sun Fire X4200 servers are installed together
Web server can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the software ( the computer application ) that helps to deliver  वेब  content that can  be  accessed through the Internet .
The most common use of web servers is to host websites , but there are other uses such as gaming , data  भंडार  or running enterprise  अनुप्रयोग  .
The American Red Cross ( ARC ) , also known as the American National Red Cross , is a humanitarian  संगठन  that provides emergency assistance , disaster relief and education inside the United States .
It is  the  designated  u.S.  affiliate of  the  International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies .
Today , in addition to domestic disaster relief , the  अमरीकी  Red Cross offers  सेवाएं  in five other areas : community services  कि  help  the  needy ; communications services  और  comfort for military members and their family members ; the collection , processing and distribution of blood and  रक्त  products ; educational programs on preparedness  ,  health , and safety  ;  and international relief and development programs .
Issued a corporate charter by the United States Congress under Title 36 of  the  United States Code , Section 3001 ,  the  American National Red Cross  is  governed by volunteers and supported by community donations , income from  स्वास्थ्य  and safety training and products , and income from  रक्त  products .
The American Red  क्रॉस  is headquartered in Washington ,  d.c  .
the  Chairman of  the  Board of Governors , serving her second three-year term , is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter .
the  current  अध्यक्ष  and  मुख्य  Executive Officer is Gail J. McGovern .
A rooster in Kosovo
A rooster , showing wattles , earlobes and comb
A rooster crowing ( with audio )
right
A rooster ( also called a cockerel or  मुर्गा  ) is a male gallinaceous bird .
it  usually  refers  to a male chicken ( Gallus gallus ) .
Immature male chickens less than one year old are  पुकारा   cockerels   .
The term ``  मुर्गा   ''  originates in the United States , and the term is widely used throughout North America ,  as  well as Australia and New Zealand .
In the  संयुक्त  Kingdom and Ireland the older term ``  cockerel  '' is more commonly used .
`` Cock '' is in general use as the name for a male  of  other species of bird , for example `` Cock sparrow '' .
`` Roosting '' is the action of perching aloft to sleep at  रात्रि  , and is done by both sexes .
The rooster is polygamous , but  can  not  गार्ड  several nests  of  eggs at once .
He guards the general area where his  मुर्गियां  are nesting , and will attack other roosters that enter his territory .
During the daytime , he usually sits on a high perch , usually 3–5 feet off the ground to serve as a  lookout  for his flock .
he  will sound a distinctive alarm call if predators are nearby .
The Pokémon Trading Card Game ( Pokémon  tcg  ) is a collectible card game based on the Pokémon video game series ,  पहला  published in October 1996 by Media Factory in Japan .
In the US , it was  initially  published by Wizards of the Coast , the company that produces , in December 1998 .
Nintendo took over publishing in June  2003   .
It is one of Nintendo 's last remaining strong links to its heritage as a playing card company .
जमीन  Rover is  a   अंग्रेजों  car manufacturer with its headquarters in Gaydon , Warwickshire , United Kingdom which specialises  in  four-wheel-drive vehicles .
It is part  of  the Jaguar Land Rover group , a subsidiary  of  Tata Motors of India .
It is the second oldest four-wheel-drive car brand in the world ( after Jeep ) .
The Land Rover name was originally used by the Rover  कम्पनी  for one specific vehicle model , named simply the Land Rover , launched by  रोवर   in  1948 .
Over the  following  years it developed into a  marque  encompassing a range  of  four-wheel-drive models , including the Defender , Discovery , Freelander , Range Rover , Range Rover  खेल  and Range Rover  evoque  .
Land Rovers are currently assembled in the  कम्पनी  's Halewood  और  Solihull  पौधे  ,  साथ  research and development taking place at JLR 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres .
Land Rover sold 194,000 vehicles worldwide in 2009 .
Although the brand originates from the original 1948  मॉडल  ,  जमीन  Rover as a company has only existed since 1978 .
Prior to this , it was a product line of the Rover Company which  थी  subsequently absorbed into the  rover-triumph  division of the British Leyland Motor Corporation ( BL ) following  leyland   मोटर  Corporation  ’s  takeover  of  Rover in 1967 .
The  जारी  commercial success  of  the original Land Rover series models  ,  and latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst  of  BL’s well documented business  परेशानियों  prompted the establishment of a separate Land Rover company but still under the BL  छतरियाँ  , remaining part of the subsequent  रोवर  Group in 1988 , under the ownership of British Aerospace after the  remains   of  British Leyland were broken up and privatised .
In 1994 Rover Group plc was acquired by BMW .
In 2000 , Rover Group was broken-up by BMW and Land Rover was sold to Ford Motor Company , becoming part of its Premier Automotive Group  .
In 2006 Ford purchased the Rover brand from BMW for around £6  लाख  .
This reunited the  रोवर   और  Land Rover brands for the first time since 2000 when the Rover group was  टूटा  up by BMW .
In June  2008  , Ford sold both Land Rover and Jaguar Cars to Tata Motors  .
This sale also included  the   dormant   रोवर  brand
The cover of the first DVD compilation released by  aniplex  of  the  New Captain Shūsuke Amagai arc
The ninth season of the  ब्लीच  anime series is named .
The series is based on Tite Kubo 's manga with same name .
the  episodes are  निर्देशित  by Noriyuki Abe and produced by TV Tokyo , Dentsu , and Studio  pierrot   .
The episodes '  प्लाट  focuses  on  the introduction  of  a new Soul Reaper captain , Shūsuke Amagai , and the mystery surrounding the Kasumiōji clan , one of the  परिवारों  that constitute the nobility of Soul Society .
The season began airing on  अप्रैल   23   ,  2008 in Japan on TV Tokyo and ended on October 7  ,  2008 .
The English  अनुकूलन  of the Bleach anime is  licensed  by Viz Media  ,  and this arc began airing  on  August 28 , 2010 on Cartoon  संजाल  's Adult Swim , and finished on January 29 , 2011 .
Five DVD compilations , each containing four episodes of the season  ,  have been  released  by Aniplex ; the first DVD compilation was  released  on November  26  , 2008 and the fifth on  कूच   25  , 2009  .
A DVD box will be published by Viz Media on December 13 , 2011 .
The episodes use three pieces of theme  म्यूज़िक  : one opening theme  और  two closing themes .
The opening theme is `` Chu-Bura  ``  by Kelun .
The first closing theme is `` Orange '' by Lil'B , used for episodes 168 to 179 , and the second closing theme is  ``  Gallop '' by pe'zmoku , used for the remainder of the episodes .
the  regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated  शक्तियां  of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United  राज्य  Constitution ,  it  is  इसलिए  exclusively the domain of the states to permit , prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex , except  insofar  as Congress may regulate it  as  part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a misdemeanor  in  the category  of  public order crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a community .
It was at one  समय   माना  to  be   a  vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow brothel prostitution , the terms of  जिससे  are  stipulated  in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8 counties  फिलहाल  contain active brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains  the  Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area )  ,  Washoe County ( which contains Reno  )  , Carson City , Douglas County ,  और  Lincoln County .
The other counties theoretically allow brothel prostitution , but some of these counties currently have no active  brothels  .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under Nevada  विधि  , as elsewhere in the country .
as  with other countries , prostitution in the United States can be divided into three broad  श्रेणी  : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The East Coast  of  the United States ,  भी  known as the Eastern Seaboard or the  अटलांटिक  Seaboard and commonly shortened to East Coast , refers  to  the easternmost coast of the United States along the Atlantic  समंदर  .
The states  जिससे  have shoreline on the East Coast are , from north to south , the U.S. states of Maine , New Hampshire , Massachusetts , Rhode Island , Connecticut , New York , New Jersey ,  डेलावेयर  , Maryland , Virginia , North Carolina , South Carolina , Georgia , and  फ्लोरिडा   .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 ,  1913   –  April  22  , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States , serving from 1969  to  1974 , when he became the only president to resign the office .
निक्सन  had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and senator from  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from  1953  to 1961 .
Nixon was  born  in Yorba Linda , California .
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University School  of  Law in 1937  ,  returning to California to practice law .
He and  उसके  wife , Pat Nixon , moved  to  Washington to work for the  संघीय  government in 1942 .
He subsequently served  in  the United States Navy during World War II .
Nixon was elected in California to the House of Representatives in 1946 and to the  सीनेट  in  1950   .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his  प्रतिष्ठा  as a leading anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence  .
He was the running mate of  ड्वाइट  D. Eisenhower  ,  the Republican Party presidential nominee  in  the 1952 election .
Nixon served for  आठ   सालो  as  वाइस  president .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential  अभियान  in 1960 , narrowly losing to  जॉन  F. Kennedy , and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran again for the presidency and was elected  .
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of  चीन   in  1972 opened diplomatic relations  between  the two nations , and he  initiated  détente and the  anti-ballistic  Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same  साल  .
Domestically  ,  his administration generally embraced policies that transferred  शक्ति  from  वॉशिंगटन  to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to fight  कर्कट  and illegal  दवाएँ  , imposed  मजदूरी  and price controls , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools , and established  the  Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning with Apollo 11  ,  he scaled back manned space  खोजी  .
He was re-elected by a landslide  in  1972  .
निक्सन  's second term saw an  अरब  oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and  a  continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other  misconduct  by members of the  प्रशासन  .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on August 9 ,  1974  ,  he  resigned in the face of almost certain  महाभियोग  and removal from office .
After his resignation , he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor , Gerald Ford .
In retirement  ,  Nixon 's work as  an  elder  statesman  , authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate  उसके  public image .
He  suffered  a debilitating stroke on April 18 , 1994 , and died four  दिनों  later  at  the age of 81 .
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft , Lustral  )  is an antidepressant of  the  selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class .
It was introduced to  the  market by Pfizer in  1991  .
Sertraline is  primarily  prescribed for major depressive disorder in  वयस्क  outpatients as well as obsessive–compulsive ,  दहशत  , and  सोशल  anxiety disorders in both adults and children .
In  2011  , it was the second-most  विहित   antidepressant  on the U.S. retail market , with 37,208,000 prescriptions .
The efficacy of sertraline for depression is similar  to  that of older tricyclic antidepressants , but  इसके  side effects are much less pronounced .
Differences with newer antidepressants are  subtler  and also mostly  confined  to side effects .
Evidence suggests that sertraline may work better than fluoxetine ( Prozac ) for some subtypes of depression .
Treatment of panic disorder  साथ  sertraline  परिणाम   in  a significant decrease  of  the number  of  panic attacks and in improved quality of life .
For obsessive-compulsive disorder , sertraline  is  not as effective  as  cognitive behavioral therapy ; the best results have been  हासिल  by combining these two treatments .
Although approved for social phobia and posttraumatic stress disorder , sertraline leads to only modest improvement in these  शर्तें  .
Sertraline also  alleviates  the  लक्षण  of premenstrual dysphoric disorder and can be used in sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for its treatment  .
Sertraline shares the common side effects and contraindications of  अन्य  SSRIs , with high rates of nausea , diarrhea  ,  insomnia , and sexual side effects ; however , it does  नहीं  cause  वज़न  gain , and its effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild .
In pregnant  महिलाओं  taking sertraline , the drug was present in significant concentrations  in  fetal blood , and was  भी   संबद्ध  with  a  higher rate of various birth defects .
Similarly to other antidepressants , the use of sertraline for  अवसाद  may be associated with a higher rate of suicidality  .
The Five Heartbeats is a 1991 musical drama film directed by Robert Townsend , who co-wrote the script with Keenan Ivory Wayans .
Distributed  by  20th Century Fox , the film 's main cast  शामिल  Townsend , Michael Wright , Leon Robinson , Harry J.  lennix  , Tico Wells , Harold Nicholas of the Nicholas Brothers , and Diahann Carroll  .
The plot of the  फिल्मी  ( which is loosely based  on  the lives of several artists : The  dells  , The  temptations  , Four Tops , Wilson Pickett , James Brown , Frankie Lymon , Sam Cooke and others  )  follows the three decade career of the R & B vocal group The Five Heartbeats  .
the  film depicts the rise and  पतन  of a Motown inspired soul act through the eyes of the film 's main protagonist , Donald `` Duck '' Matthews  (  portrayed by Townsend ) , who serves as a narrator throughout the film .
However , a majority of the cinema  is  presented in  a  consecutive  समय  line as opposed to traditional flash backs .
The film includes a significant amount of original music conceived by various artists for the film 's soundtrack , including singles such  as   ``  A Heart Is a House for  प्रेम  `` , `` We Have n't Finished Yet '' , and `` Nothing But Love '' .
The film was released to most North American audiences  कूच  29 , 1991 however it was not  बना  available to audiences in  अन्य   महाद्वीपों  until 2002 when a DVD was  released  prior to another DVD release in 2006 for the film 's  15th  anniversary .
The movie received mixed reviews from  आलोचकों  .
Secretariat (  कूच  30 , 1970 – October 4 , 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S . Triple Crown champion in 25 years  .
He set race records in all three events  in  the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ) , the Preakness Stakes (  1:53  ) , and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today .
He is considered to be one of the greatest Thoroughbreds of all time .
In 1999 , ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th century , the highest  रैंकिंग  racehorse on the list URL_http .
He ranked  दूसरी  behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse  's  List  of   the   शीर्ष  100 U.S. Racehorses of the  20th  Century .
सचिवालय  was sired by Bold Ruler out  of  Somethingroyal , by Princequillo .
He was foaled at The Meadow  in  Caroline County , Virginia .
Like his famous predecessor Man  o  ' War , Secretariat was a large chestnut colt and was given the same nickname , `` Big Red . ''
Secretariat  's  grandsire , Nasrullah , is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977  ट्रिपल  Crown winner Seattle Slew .
Owned by Penny  chenery  , he was trained by Lucien Laurin  और  mainly ridden  by  Canadian jockey Ron Turcotte , along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races )  ,  and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ) .
He  raced  in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and white checkered  रंगों  and  उसके   दूल्हे  was Eddie Sweat .
Secretariat stood approximately tall , and weighed , with a 75-inch girth , in his racing prime .
A typical 12 V , 40 Ah Lead-acid car  बैटरी
An automotive battery is a type of rechargeable battery that supplies electric energy to an automobile .
Usually this  refers   to  an SLI battery ( starting , lighting , ignition ) to  शक्ति  the starter motor ,  the  lights  ,  and the  प्रज्वलन  system of a vehicle’s engine .
Automotive SLI batteries  हैं  usually lead-acid type , and are made of six galvanic cells in series to  provide  a 12 volt system .
Each cell provides 2.1 volts for a total of 12.6 volt at full charge .
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or  tractors   ,  often equipped with diesel  इंजन  , may have two batteries in series for a 24 volt system , or may have parallel strings of batteries .
Lead-acid batteries are made up of plates of lead and separate plates of lead dioxide , which are submerged into an  electrolyte  solution  of  about 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 %  जल  .
This causes a chemical reaction that releases electrons ,  allowing  them to flow through conductors to produce electricity .
As the battery discharges ,  the  acid of the electrolyte  प्रतिक्रियाएँ   साथ  the materials of the plates , changing their  सतह   to  lead sulfate  .
When the battery is recharged , the chemical  प्रतिक्रिया  is reversed : the lead sulfate reforms into lead dioxide and lead .
With the plates restored to their original  कंडीशन  , the process may now be repeated .
Battery recycling  of  automotive batteries  reduces  the need for resources required for manufacture of new batteries , diverts toxic lead from landfills , and prevents risk  of  improper disposal .
Full-time  नियुक्ति  is  नियुक्ति  in which a  व्यक्ति  works a minimum number of hours defined as such by his/her  नियोक्ता  .
Full-time employment  प्रायः  comes with benefits that are not typically offered to part-time , temporary , or flexible workers , such as annual leave ,  sickleave  , and health insurance .
Full-time jobs are  प्रायः  considered careers .
They generally pay more than part-time jobs , and usually carry more hours per week .
The Fair  मजदूर  Standards Act ( FLSA ) does not define full-time employment or  part-time  employment .
This is a matter generally to be  संकल्पित  by the employer ( US Department of Labor ) .
The definition by  नियोक्ता   can  vary  और  is generally published in a company 's Employee  हैंडबुक   .
Companies commonly require  इससे  30–35 or 40 hours per week  to   be  defined as  full-time  and therefore eligible for benefits .
Full-Time status varies between company and is  प्रायः  based on the shift  the  employee  जरूर  work during each work week .
The `` standard '' work week consists of five eight-hour days ,  commonly  served between  9:00am  to  5:00pm  totaling 40 hours .
While  a   four-day  week  generally  consists of four ten-hour days ; it  may  also consist of as little as nine hours for a  कुल  of a 36 hour work week .
Twelve-hour shifts are  प्रायः  three days per  सप्ताह  , unless the company has the intention of paying out  the  employee  ओवरटाइम  .
Overtime is legally paid out anytime an employee works more than 40 hours per week  .
The legal minimum for overtime starts at Base Pay + One-Half .
The increased payout is  माना  to compensate slightly for the increased fatigue which a person experiences on such long shifts .
Shifts can  भी  be very irregular , as  in  retail ,  लकिन  are  स्टिल  full-time if the required number  of  hours is reached .
There are some situations where a person who needs full-time work is dropped to part-time , which  is  sometimes a form of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker .
Seahorse is the title given to  54  species of marine fish in the genus  हिप्पोकैम्पस  .
`` Hippocampus ''  आता   इससे  the Ancient  यूनानी  hippos  अर्थ  ``  घोड़ा  '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster '' .
the  Controlled Substances Act  (  CSA ) was enacted into law by the  कॉंग्रेस  of the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse  रोकथाम  and Control Act of  1970  .
The CSA is the  संघीय  U.S. drug policy under  जिससे  the manufacture , importation , possession ,  उपयोग  and distribution of certain substances is regulated .
The Act also served as the national implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ) , with varying qualifications for  a   पदार्थ  to be included in  प्रत्येक  .
दो  federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and  the   खाना  and Drug Administration , determine  जिससे   substances  are added to or removed  इससे   the   विभिन्न  schedules , though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing , and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and  सामन्था  Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000  ,  which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to  be  made on criteria including potential  लिये  abuse ( an undefined term  )  , currently accepted medical use in treatment  in  the United  राज्य  , and  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  treaties .
Maya numerals
Maya numerals are a vigesimal (  आधार   -  twenty ) numeral system used  by  the  pre-columbian  Maya civilization .
The  numerals  are made up of three  प्रतीकों  ; zero ( shell shape  )  , one ( a dot ) and five ( a bar ) .
For example , thirteen is written as three dots in a horizontal row above  दो  horizontal lines stacked  ऊपर  each other .
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27 , 1908 – January 22 ,  1973  ) , often referred to as LBJ , was the 36th  अध्यक्ष  of the United States ( 1963–1969 ) , a position he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice  अध्यक्ष  of the United States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He is one of only four people who served in all four elected federal offices of the United States : Representative , Senator , Vice President ,  और  President .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas ,  परोसा  as a United  राज्य  Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961 ,  सहित   छह  years as United States Senate Majority Leader , two as  सीनेट  Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination in 1960 , Johnson was asked by  जॉन  F. Kennedy to  be  his running mate for the 1960 presidential election .
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy  on  November 22 , 1963 , completed Kennedy  's  term and  थी  elected President in his own right , winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly  समर्थित  by the Democratic Party and as President , he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that included laws that upheld  सिविल  rights , public broadcasting , Medicare ,  medicaid  , environmental protection , aid to education , and his `` War on Poverty . ''
जॉनसन  was renowned for his domineering personality and the `` Johnson treatment , '' his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation .
meanwhile   ,  Johnson escalated American  भागीदारी  in the Vietnam War , from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in early 1968  ,  as  अमरीकी  casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar  गति  based especially on  विश्वविद्यालयों  campuses in the U.S. and  विदेश  .
Summer riots broke out in  सबसे  major  शहरों  after 1965 , and crime rates soared , as his opponents raised demands for `` law  और  order '' policies .
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions , and  बाद  Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary , he ended his bid for reelection .
रिपब्लिकन  Richard Nixon was elected to succeed him .
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency marked the  शिखर   of  modern liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era .
जॉनसन  is ranked favorably by some historians because of his domestic policies  .
Progesterone also known as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a C-21 steroid hormone involved in the female menstrual  साईकिल  , pregnancy ( supports gestation ) and embryogenesis of humans and other species .
Progesterone belongs to  a  class of hormones called progestogens  ,  and is the major naturally  occurring  human progestogen  .
Big Bird is a protagonist of the children 's  टेलीविज़न  show Sesame Street .
Officially  performed  by Caroll Spinney since 1969 , he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) tall bright primrose-yellow bird .
He  can  roller skate , ice skate , dance , sing , write poetry , draw and even ride a unicycle .
But despite this wide array of  talents  , he is prone to frequent misunderstandings , on one occasion  भी   गायन  the alphabet as one big long word  (  from the song called `` ABC-DEF-GHI  ,  '' pronounced `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ) , pondering  कया  it could ever mean .
He lives in  a  large  घोंसला  behind the 123 Sesame Street brownstone and has  a  teddy bear named Radar .
Webtrends is a private company headquartered in Portland , Oregon , United States .
It provides web , social , and mobile analytics and other software solutions related to marketing intelligence .
The  कम्पनी  was founded in 1993 and now serves  अधिक  than 10,000 large and small firms. < ref name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
The Second Crusade  (  1145–1149 ) was the  दूसरी  major crusade  शुभारम्भ  from  यूरोपीय  .
The Second Crusade was  प्रारंभ  in response  to   the  fall of  the  County of Edessa the  पिछला  year to the  शक्तियां  of Zengi  .
The  काउंटी  had  महरूम  founded during the First Crusade (  1096–1099  )  by  Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098 .
While it was the first Crusader state  to  be  संस्थापित  , it was  भी  the first to fall .
The  दूसरी  Crusade was announced by Pope Eugene III , and was the first of the crusades to be led by European kings , namely Louis  सात  of France and  कोनराड   iii  of Germany , with help from a number  of  other European nobles .
the  armies of the two kings marched separately across Europe .
After crossing Byzantine territory into Anatolia , both armies were separately defeated  by  the Seljuq Turks .
The main Western Christian source  ,   odo   of  Deuil , and  syriac  Christian sources claim that the Byzantine emperor Manuel I Comnenus  secretly  hindered the  crusaders  ' progress , particularly in Anatolia  जहाँ  he is alleged to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack them .
लुई  and Conrad and the remnants of  उनके  armies reached Jerusalem and , in 1148 , participated in an ill-advised attack on Damascus .
The crusade in  the  east was a failure for the  crusaders  and a great victory for the Muslims .
It would ultimately have a key influence on  the  fall  of  Jerusalem and give rise  to  the Third Crusade  at  the end of the 12th century .
The only success of the Second Crusade came to a combined force of 13,000 Flemish  ,  Frisian , Norman , English , Scottish , and German crusaders in 1147 .
Travelling from England , by  जलयान  , to  the  Holy Land ,  the  army  रोका  and helped  the  smaller  (   7,000  ) Portuguese army in the capture of Lisbon , expelling its Moorish occupants .
Wal-Mart Stores , Inc. (  )  , branded as Walmart , is an American multinational retail corporation that runs chains of  विशाल  discount department stores and warehouse stores .
the  company is the world 's third largest public corporation , according to the Fortune  वैश्विक  500 list in 2012 , the biggest private employer in the world with over two million employees , and is the largest retailer in the world .
Walmart remains a family-owned business , as the company is controlled by the Walton family , who own a 48 percent stake in Walmart .
it  is  भी  one of the  संसार  's most valuable companies .
The company was founded by Sam Walton in 1962 , incorporated on October 31 , 1969 ,  और  publicly traded on the  नई  York Stock Exchange in 1972 .
It is headquartered in Bentonville , Arkansas .
Walmart is also the largest grocery retailer in the United States .
In 2009 , it generated  51  percent of its US $ 258 billion sales in the U.S. from grocery business .
It also owns and operates  the  Sam 's Club retail warehouses in North America .
By 1988 , Wal-Mart was the most profitable retailer in the US , and by November 1990 , it outsold K-mart .
By 1991 it outsold  सियर्स  in retail , making it America  's  largest retailer , a distinction it  स्टिल  holds .
walmart  has 8,500 stores  in  15 countries , under 55 different names  .
The company operates under the  walmart  name in the United States , including the 50 states and Puerto Rico  .
It operates in Mexico as Walmex , in the  संयुक्त  Kingdom as Asda , in Japan as Seiyu , and  in  India as  बेहतरीन  Price .
It  रै  wholly owned operations in Argentina , Brazil , and Canada .
Walmart 's investments outside  उत्तर  America have had mixed results : its operations in the United Kingdom , South America  ,  and China are highly successful , whereas ventures in  जर्मनी  and South Korea were unsuccessful .
Robert William Gary Moore ( 4 April 1952 – 6  फ़रवरी  2011  )  , was a  उत्तरी  Irish musician , most widely recognised as  a  singer and guitarist .
in  a career dating back to the  1960s  ,  मूर  played  साथ  artists including Phil Lynott and Brian Downey during his teens , leading him to memberships  साथ  the Irish bands Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions .
Moore shared the stage with such blues and rock luminaries as B.B . King , Albert King , Colosseum II , George Harrison and Greg Lake , as  खूब  as having a successful  सोलो  career  .
He guested on a number of albums recorded by high profile musicians , including  a  cameo appearance playing the lead guitar solo on `` She 's My Baby `` from Traveling Wilburys  आवाज़  . 3 .
An example  of  rack mounted servers
A web hosting service  is  a type of Internet hosting service  कि  allows individuals and organizations to make their website accessible via the  संसार  Wide Web .
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned or leased for use by clients , as well as providing Internet connectivity ,  typically  in a  आंकड़ा  center .
Web hosts can also  provide  data center space and connectivity to the Internet for  अन्य  servers located in their data center , called  colocation  , also known as Housing in Latin America or France .
The scope of web hosting services varies  greatly  .
The most  मौलिक  is web page and small-scale file hosting , where files can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol (  एफटीपी  ) or a Web interface .
The files are usually delivered to the Web `` as is '' or with minimal processing .
Many Internet service providers ( ISPs  )  offer this service free to subscribers .
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web page hosting from alternative service providers .
Personal web site hosting is typically free , advertisement-sponsored , or inexpensive .
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense depending upon the size and  प्रकार  of the website .
सिंगल  page hosting is generally  sufficient   लिये  personal web pages  .
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that  provides   डेटाबेस  support and  अनुप्रयोग   विकास  platforms ( e.g .  पीएचपी  , Java , Ruby on Rails ,  coldfusion  , or  asp.net  ) .
These facilities allow customers to write  or  install scripts for applications like forums and content management .
Also , Secure Sockets  परत  ( SSL )  is  typically used for  e-commerce   .
The  मेजबान  may also provide an interface or control panel for managing the Web server and installing scripts , as well as other modules and service  अनुप्रयोग  like e-mail .
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g . e-commerce  )  , which are commonly used by larger  कंपनियाँ  that outsource network infrastructure .
obstetrics  ( from the Latin obstare , `` to stand  by  '' ) is the medical  specialty  dealing with the  परवाह  of all  महिलाओं  's reproductive tracts and their children during pregnancy ( prenatal period ) , childbirth and the postnatal  काल   .
अनेक  obstetricians are also gynecologists , meaning they perform  in  both specialties .
In the United States , these physicians are commonly referred to as OB/GYNs .
the  Wright brothers , Orville ( August 19  ,  1871 – January 30 ,  1948  ) and Wilbur ( April  16  ,  1867  – May 30 , 1912 ) ,  यहूद  two American brothers , inventors , and aviation pioneers who were credited with inventing and building the world 's first successful airplane and making the  पहला  controlled , powered and sustained heavier-than-air human flight , on December  17  , 1903  .
From 1905 to 1907  ,  the brothers developed their flying machine  into  the first practical fixed-wing aircraft .
Although not the first to build and fly experimental aircraft , the Wright brothers were the  पहला   to   इफ़तेरा  aircraft controls that  बना  fixed-wing powered flight possible .
The brothers  '  fundamental breakthrough was their invention of three-axis control , which enabled the pilot to steer the aircraft effectively and  to  maintain its equilibrium .
This method became standard and remains standard on fixed-wing aircraft  of  all kinds .
From the beginning of their aeronautical work , the Wright brothers focused on developing a  विश्वसनीय  method of pilot control as the key to solving `` the flying problem '' .
This approach differed significantly from other experimenters of the time who put more emphasis on developing powerful engines .
Using a small homebuilt wind tunnel , the Wrights also collected more accurate data than any before , enabling them to design and build wings and  propellers  that were more  कुशल  than any before .
Their first U.S. patent , 821,393 , did not claim invention of a flying machine ,  लकिन  rather , the invention of a system  of  aerodynamic control that manipulated a flying machine 's surfaces .
They gained the mechanical skills  अनिवार्य  for their success by working for years in their shop with printing presses , bicycles , motors , and other machinery .
Their work with bicycles in particular influenced their belief that an unstable vehicle like a flying  यंत्र  could be controlled and balanced with practice .
From 1900 until their first powered flights in late 1903 , they conducted extensive glider tests that  भी  developed their skills as pilots .
Their bicycle shop employee Charlie Taylor became  an  important part of the team , building their  पहला  aircraft engine in close  सहयोग  with  the  brothers .
The Wright  भाइयो  ' status as inventors of the airplane has been subject to counter-claims by various parties .
Much controversy persists  over  the many competing claims of early aviators .
अमेरिका  's Next Top Model ,  साईकिल  12 is  the  twelfth  साईकिल  of America 's  अगला  Top Model and the sixth season to air on The CW network .
It premiered on March 4  ,  2009  .
The cycle 's catch phrase is `` Get In The Fold . ''
The cycle 's promotional  सोंग  is Lady Gaga 's `` The Fame '' .
The prizes for this cycle are:
A modeling contract  साथ  Elite Model Management .
A fashion spread and cover in Seventeen .
A 100,000 contract with CoverGirl cosmetics .
The first half of the cycle took place  in  New York City , moving  the   दिखाएँ   वापस   इससे  Los Angeles last season .
the  international destination for this cycle is São Paulo  ,  Brazil , the series first visit to South America .
the   क्रमांक  of girls was reduced to 13 , the first time since Cycle 9 , after  होने  maintained at  14  in the last two cycles  .
This was the last time  paulina  Porizkova participated as judge .
The winner was 20-year-old Teyona Anderson from Woodstown ,  नई  Jersey .
This season averaged 4.35 million viewers per episode .
Exxon Mobil Corporation , or ExxonMobil , is an American multinational oil and  गैस  corporation headquartered in Irving , Texas  ,  United States .
It is a direct descendant of John D. Rockefeller 's Standard Oil company , and was formed  on  November 30 , 1999 , by  the  merger of Exxon and Mobil .
It is affiliated with  इम्पीरियल   आयल  which operates in Canada .
ExxonMobil is the world  's   largest  company by revenue and in 2013  ,  became the largest  सरेआम  traded  कम्पनी  by market capitalization  in  the world .
The company is ranked # 5  globally  in Forbes Global 2000 list in  2013  .
Exxon Mobil 's reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent barrels at the end of 2007 and , at then ( 2007 ) rates of production , are expected  to  last over 14 years .
साथ  37 oil refineries in 21 countries constituting  a  combined daily refining capacity of  ,  Exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in  the  world , a title that was also associated with Standard Oil since  इसके  incorporation in 1870 .
ExxonMobil is the largest of the world 's supermajors with daily  उत्पादन  of 3.921 million BOE  (  barrels of oil equivalent  )   .
in  2008 , this was  लगभग  3 % of world production ,  जिससे   is   कम  than several  of  the largest  state-owned  petroleum companies .
When  क्रमित  by oil and gas reserves it is 14th  in  the world with less than 1 % of the total .
A 2012 article in  the  Daily Telegraph says that ExxonMobil  रै   ``  grown into one of the planet’s most hated corporations , able to determine American foreign policy and the fate of entire nations '' .
In terms of its environmental record ,  exxonmobil  increasingly  drills  in terrains leased to them by dictatorships , such as those in Chad and Equatorial Guinea .
Lee Raymond  ,   the  corporation’s chief executive until 2005 , was `` notoriously sceptical about climate change  और  disliked government interference at any level '' .
The company was widely criticized for its slow  जवाब  to cleaning  इसके  1989 Valdez oil spill in Alaska .
This article  is   परिचय  the Globe Theatre of Shakespeare .
For the modern  पुनर्निर्माण  in London , see Shakespeare 's Globe .
For other uses , see Globe Theatre ( disambiguation  )  .
the  Globe Theatre was a theatre in London associated  साथ  William Shakespeare .
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare  's  playing company , the Lord Chamberlain 's Men , on land  स्वामित्व  by Thomas Brend and inherited by his son , Nicholas  brend  and grandson Sir Matthew Brend , and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613 .
A second Globe Theatre was built on the same site by  जून  1614 and closed in 1642 .
A  आधुनिक   पुनर्निर्माण  of the Globe , named  ``  Shakespeare 's Globe `` , opened in 1997 approximately from the site of  the   असली  theatre  .
It 's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 American Christmas drama film produced  और  directed by Frank Capra , based on the short story `` The Greatest Gift `` , which Philip  वैन  Doren Stern wrote in 1939 and privately published in 1945 .
The film is considered one  of  the most loved films in American cinema and has become traditional viewing during  the  Christmas season , alongside popular  क्लासिक   ऐसे  as Charles Dickens '  a  Christmas Carol .
The film stars James Stewart as George Bailey  ,  a man  जो  has given up his  सपनो  in order to help others and  जिनकी  imminent suicide on Christmas Eve brings about the intervention of his guardian angel , Clarence Odbody ( Henry  ट्रेवर्स  ) .
Clarence shows George all the lives  he  has touched  और  how different life in his  जातियाँ  of Bedford Falls would be had he never been  born  .
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high production costs and stiff competition at the time of its release , the film has come to be regarded as a classic and is a staple of Christmas television around the world .
Theatrically , the film 's break-even point was actually $ 6.3 million , approximately twice the production cost ,  a  figure it never came close to achieving in its initial release .
An appraisal  in  2006 reported : `` Although it was not the  पूरा  box office failure that today everyone believes ... it was initially a major disappointment and confirmed , at  तनिक  to  the  studios , that Capra was no longer  सक्षम  of turning  आउट   the  populist features that made his films the must-see , money-making events they once were  .  ''
The film was nominated for five Oscars and has been recognized by  the  American Film Institute as one of the 100 best American films ever made , placing number 11 on its initial 1998 greatest movie list , and would also place number one on its list of the most inspirational American films of all time .
Data Warehouse Overview
In computing , a  आंकड़ा  warehouse or enterprise data warehouse ( DW ,  dwh  , or EDW ) is  a  database  प्रयुक्त  for reporting and data analysis .
It is a central repository of data which is created by integrating data from one or more disparate sources .
Data warehouses store current  as  well as  ऐतिहासिक  data and are used for creating trending reports for senior management reporting such as annual and quarterly comparisons .
The data stored in the  गोदाम  are uploaded from the operational systems ( such as marketing , sales etc. , shown in the figure to the right  )  .
The data may pass through an operational data store for  अतिरिक्त  operations before they are used in the DW for reporting  .
The typical ETL -based data  गोदाम  uses staging , data integration ,  और   अभिगम  layers to house its key functions .
The  स्टेजिंग  layer or staging database stores raw data extracted from each of  the  disparate source data systems .
the  integration layer integrates the disparate data sets by transforming the data from the staging layer often storing this transformed data in an operational data store ( ODS ) database .
The integrated data are then moved to yet another database , often called the data  गोदाम  database ,  जहाँ  the data is arranged into hierarchical groups often called dimensions and into facts and aggregate  तथ्य  .
The combination of facts and dimensions  is  sometimes called a star schema .
The access layer helps users retrieve data .
A data warehouse constructed from an integrated data source systems does not require ETL , staging databases  ,  or operational data store databases .
The integrated data source systems may  be  considered to be a part of  a   वितरित  operational data store layer .
Data federation methods or data  आभासीकरण   विधि  may be used to access the distributed integrated source data systems to  consolidate  and aggregate  आंकड़ा  directly into the data warehouse database tables .
Unlike the ETL-based data  गोदाम  , the integrated source  आंकड़ा  systems and the data warehouse are all integrated since there is  no  transformation of dimensional or reference data .
This integrated data warehouse architecture supports the drill down from the  कुल  data  of  the data warehouse to the  transactional  data of the  एकीकृत  source data systems .
Data warehouses can be subdivided into data  marts  .
Data marts store subsets of data from a warehouse .
This definition  of  the data warehouse focuses  on   आंकड़ा  storage .
The main  सोर्स  of the data is cleaned , transformed , cataloged and made available for use  by  managers and other business professionals for data mining , online analytical processing , market research and decision support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ) .
However , the means to  retrieve  and  analyze  data ,  to  extract , transform and load data , and to manage the data dictionary are also considered essential components  of  a data warehousing system .
अनेक  references to data warehousing use this broader context .
Thus , an expanded definition for data warehousing  शामिल  business  प्रज्ञा  tools ,  टूल्स  to extract , transform and load data into the  repository   ,  and tools to manage and retrieve metadata .
Portland stone quarry on the Isle of Portland  ,  England
An abandoned construction aggregate quarry near Adelaide ,  दक्षिण  Australia
A quarry is a type of open-pit  मेरा  from which rock or  खनिज  are extracted .
Quarries  हैं  generally used for extracting building materials , such as dimension stone , construction aggregate  ,  riprap , sand , and gravel .
They are  प्रायः  collocated with concrete and asphalt plants due to the requirement for large amounts of aggregate in those  सामग्री  .
Open  खानों  that produce  खनिज  are typically referred to as open pit mines .
The word quarry can include  भूमिगत  quarrying for  स्टोन  , such as  नहाना  stone .
Mormons ( ) are a  धार्मिक  and cultural group  सम्बन्धित  to Mormonism ,  the  principal branch of the Latter Day  संत  movement of Restorationist Christianity , which began with the visions of Joseph  स्मिथ  in upstate New York during the 1820s .
After Smith 's death in 1844 the Mormons followed  ब्रिघम  Young to what would  become  the Utah Territory .
Today Mormons are understood to be members of The  गिरिजाघर  of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ) .
Some  mormons  are also either independent or non-practicing .
The center  of  Mormon cultural  influence  is in Utah , and North America has more Mormons than any other continent , though the majority of Mormons live outside the United States .
Mormons have developed a strong sense of communality that stems from their doctrine and history .
दौरान  the 19th century Mormon  converts  tended to gather to  a  central geographic location , and between 1852 and 1890 a minority of  mormons  openly practiced  बहुवचन  marriage  ,  a form of religious polygamy .
Mormons dedicate large amounts of time and resources to serving in their church , and many young Mormons choose to serve a full-time proselytizing mission .
Mormons have  a  health code that eschews alcoholic beverages , tobacco  ,  coffee , tea , and other addictive substances .
They tend to be very family-oriented , and have strong connections across  पीढियां  and with extended family , reflective of their belief that families can be sealed  साथ  beyond  मौत  and throughout eternity .
Mormons also have  a  strict law of chastity , requiring abstention from sexual relations outside of marriage and strict  वफ़ादारी  within marriage .
Mormons self-identify as Christian ,  हालांकि  some of  उनके  beliefs differ from mainstream Christianity .
Mormons  मानना  in the Bible , as well as  अन्य  books of scripture , such as the Book of Mormon .
वे  have a unique view of  cosmology  , and believe that all people are spirit-children of God .
mormons  believe that returning to God requires following  the  example of Jesus Christ ,  और  accepting his atonement through  ordinances  such as baptism .
They believe that  मसीह  's church  थी  restored  through  Joseph Smith , and is guided by living prophets and  रसूलों  .
Central to Mormon  आस्था  is the  विश्वास  that  परमेश्वर  speaks  to  his children  और   जवाब  their prayers .
In financial accounting , assets  हैं  economic resources .
Anything tangible  or  intangible that is capable of being owned or controlled to produce value  और  that is held to have positive economic value  is  considered an  एसेट  .
Simply stated , assets represent value of ownership that can be converted into cash ( although cash itself is also  माना  an asset ) .
the  balance sheet  of  a firm records the monetaryJ .
G. Siegel , N. Dauber & J. K. Shim , `` The Vest Pocket CPA '' , Wiley , 2005.There are different methods of  assessing  the monetary value of the assets recorded on the Balance Sheet .
In some cases , the Historical Cost is used ;  ऐसे  that the value of the asset  जब  it was bought in the past is used as the monetary value .
In other instances ,  the  present fair market value of the asset  is  used  to  determine the value shown on the  संतुलन  sheet .
value of the assets owned by the firm .
It is money and other valuables belonging  to  an individual or business .
Two major asset classes are tangible  एसेट  and intangible assets .
Tangible assets contain  विभिन्न  subclasses , including current assets and fixed assets.J .
Downes , J.E . Goodman , `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms ''  ,  Baron 's Financial  मार्गदर्शिका  , 2003 Current assets include inventory , while fixed assets  शामिल  such items as buildings and equipment .J . Downes , J.E . Goodman , `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '' , Baron 's Financial Guides , 2003 ; and  J.  G. Siegel , N. Dauber & J. K. Shim , `` The Vest Pocket CPA '' , Wiley , 2005 .
intangible   एसेट  are nonphysical resources and rights  कि  have a value to the firm because  वे  give the firm some kind  of  advantage in the market place .
Examples of  intangible  assets are goodwill , copyrights , trademarks  ,  patents and computer programs , and financial assets , including such items as accounts receivable , bonds and stocks .
A neuron  (  or ; also known as a neurone or nerve cell ) is  an  electrically excitable cell that processes and  transmits  information through electrical and chemical signals .
A chemical signal occurs  via   a   अन्तर्ग्रथन  ,  a  specialized connection with other  कोशिकाएं  .
Neurons connect to each other to form neural  संजाल  .
न्यूरॉन्स  are the core components of the nervous system , which includes the brain ,  स्पाइनल  cord ,  और  peripheral  ganglia  .
A number of specialized types of neurons exist : sensory neurons respond to touch , sound , light  और  numerous other stimuli affecting cells of the sensory organs that then send signals to the spinal cord and brain .
Motor neurons receive signals from the brain  और  spinal cord , cause muscle contractions ,  और   affect  glands .
Interneurons connect neurons to other neurons within the same region of the brain or spinal cord .
A typical neuron possesses a  कोशिका  body (  प्रायः  called the soma ) , dendrites , and an axon .
Dendrites are thin structures that arise from the cell body , often extending for hundreds of micrometres and  branching   अनेक   टाइम्स   ,  giving  वृद्धि  to a complex `` dendritic tree '' .
An axon is a special cellular  एक्सटेंशन  that arises from the cell body at a site called the axon hillock and travels for a distance , as far as 1 meter in humans or  भी  more in other species .
the  cell body of a neuron frequently gives rise to multiple dendrites , but  never  to more than one axon , although the  axon  may branch hundreds of times before it  terminates  .
At the majority of synapses , signals are sent from the axon of one neuron to  a  dendrite  of  another .
There are , however , many exceptions to these rules  :  neurons  कि  lack dendrites , neurons  कि  have no axon , synapses that connect an axon to  another  axon  or  a  dendrite  to another  dendrite  , etc .
All neurons are electrically excitable , maintaining voltage gradients across their membranes by means of metabolically driven ion pumps , which combine with ion channels embedded in the membrane to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration  मतभेद  of ions such as sodium , potassium , chloride , and calcium .
Changes in the cross-membrane voltage can alter the function of voltage-dependent ion channels .
If the voltage changes by a large enough amount , an all-or-none electrochemical pulse called  an  action potential is generated , which travels rapidly along the cell 's axon , and activates synaptic connections with other cells when it arrives .
Neurons do not undergo cell division .
In most cases , neurons are generated by special types of stem  कोशिकाएं   .
Astrocytes , a type of glial cell  ,  have  भी  been observed to  फेरे  into neurons by virtue  of  the stem cell characteristic  pluripotency  .
In humans  ,  neurogenesis largely ceases during adulthood—but in  दो   दिमाग  areas ,  the  hippocampus and olfactory bulb  ,  there is strong evidence for generation of substantial numbers of new neurons .
Super Bowl XLIII was an American football game between the American  फ़ुटबॉल  Conference ( AFC )  चैंपियन  Pittsburgh Steelers and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion Arizona Cardinals to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season  .
The Steelers defeated  the  Cardinals by the score of 27–23 .
The game was played  on  February 1 , 2009 , at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa , Florida .
साथ  this win , the Steelers  became  the first team to win six Super Bowls .
Pittsburgh  ,  who finished the  नियमित   ऋतु  with a 12–4 record , also won their  दूसरी  Super Bowl  in  four years after winning Super Bowl XL at the end of the 2005 season .
The Cardinals  डाला  the game seeking their first NFL title since 1947 , the longest championship drought in  the  league  .
the  club became an unexpected winner during  the   नियमित   ऋतु  ,  compiling  a 9–7 record , and the  playoffs  with the aid of head  कोच   केन  Whisenhunt , who was the Steelers ' offensive coordinator  in  Super Bowl XL , and the  re-emergence  of quarterback Kurt Warner  ,  who was the Super Bowl MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team  ,  St. Louis Rams .
Pittsburgh jumped to a 17–7 halftime lead , aided by linebacker James Harrison 's Super Bowl record 100-yard interception return for  a  touchdown .
Trailing 20–7 at the  प्रारंभ  of  the  fourth quarter , Arizona scored 16 unanswered points , including wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown reception , to take the lead with 2:37 remaining  in  the game .
But the Steelers  marched  78 yards  to  score on wide receiver Santonio Holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left .
Holmes ,  जो  caught  नौ   गुजरता   लिये  131 yards and a touchdown , including four  receptions  for 73 yards on that final game-winning  ड्राइव  , was named Super Bowl MVP .
He became the sixth wide receiver to  जीत  the award ,  और  also was  the  third Pittsburgh receiver to win the award , following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward .
Despite the  वैश्विक  financial crisis and limited amount of ancillary festivities that are normally held before the game , the NBC television network broadcast  आकर्षित  an average U.S. audience of 98.7 million viewers , making it the most watched Super Bowl in history to that point .
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum ,  प्रर्दशित  various properties across the range of frequencies and  wavelengths
the  electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum ''  of  an object has a different meaning , and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum  extends  from below the low frequencies used for  आधुनिक  radio communication  to   गामा  radiation at the short- wavelength  (  high-frequency ) end ,  thereby  covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down  to  a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is  the   आकार  of the universe itself , while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of  the  Planck length , although in principle the spectrum  is  infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum  हैं   प्रयुक्त  in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In addition , radiation from  विभिन्न  parts of the spectrum has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
लेजेंड
Marchantia , a liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional  नाम  used to refer to all embryophytes ( land plants ) that do not have true vascular tissue and are therefore called ' non-vascular plants ' .
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues for the transport of water ; however since these do not  contain  lignin ,  वे  are not considered to be true vascular tissue .
Currently bryophytes are thought not to be a natural or monophyletic  समूह  ; however the name is convenient and remains in use  as  a collective term for mosses , hornworts , and liverworts .
Bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia and sporangia ) ,  लकिन  they produce neither flowers nor seeds , reproducing  via  spores .
The term bryophyte comes from Greek  βρύον  , bryon , `` tree-moss  ,  oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` plant '' .
A bank is  a  financial institution and a financial intermediary that accepts deposits and channels those deposits into lending activities , either directly by  loaning  or indirectly through  पूंजी  markets .
A bank is the connection  between  customers that have capital deficits and customers with capital surpluses .
Due to their influence within a financial system and an economy , banks are generally highly regulated in most countries .
Most banks operate under a system known as fractional reserve banking where they hold only a  छोटी   आरक्षित  of the funds deposited and lend out  the  rest for profit  .
They are generally subject to minimum capital requirements  जिससे   हैं  based on an international set of capital standards , known as the Basel Accords .
The oldest bank still  in  existence is Monte dei Paschi di Siena ,  headquartered  in Siena , Italy , which has  महरूम  operating continuously since 1472 .
It is followed by Berenberg Bank of Hamburg ( 1590 ) and  sveriges  Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ) .
Banking in its  आधुनिक  sense evolved in  समृद्ध  cities of  पुनर्जागरण  Italy , such  as  Florence , Venice and Genoa .
In the history of banking , a  क्रमांक  of banking  dynasties  —among them notably  medici  ,  fugger  , Welser , Berenberg , Baring and Rothschild —have played a  सेंट्रल  role over many centuries .
The Xbox is a video game console  manufactured  by Microsoft .
It was released  on  November 15 , 2001 in North America , February 22 , 2002 in Japan , and March 14 , 2002 in Australia and Europe  .
It was Microsoft 's first foray  into  the  गेमिंग   कंसोल  market .
As part of the  sixth-generation  of gaming , the Xbox competed with Sony 's  प्लेस्टेशन  2 , Sega 's Dreamcast  (  which  रोका  American sales before the Xbox went on sale ) , and Nintendo 's GameCube .
The Xbox was the first console offered by an American  कम्पनी  after the Atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996 .
The integrated Xbox Live  सेवा  launched in November 2002 allowed players to play games online with a broadband connection .
It first competed with  dreamcast  's online service but  बाद  primarily competed with PlayStation 2 's online service .
Although these two are free while Xbox Live required a subscription ,  as  well as broadband-only connection  जिससे  was not completely adopted yet , Xbox Live was a success  due  to better servers , features such as a buddy list , and milestone titles like Halo  2  released in November 2004 , which is the best-selling Xbox video game and was by far the most popular online game for years .
एक्सबॉक्स  's successor  ,  the Xbox 360  ,  was launched in November 2005 .
the  Xbox was discontinued in late 2005 in Japan where  बिक्री  were poor  .
It was discontinued in late 2006 in Europe and  जल्दी  2007 in North  अमेरिका  .
The last Xbox  खेल  in Europe was Tony Hawk 's Project 8 released in November  2006  , and the last game in North America was Madden NFL 09 released in August 2008 .
Support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was discontinued on March 2 , 2009 , stating that any in-warranty repair now needed will not be undertaken .
Xbox access to Xbox Live was stopped  on  April 15 , 2010 .
the  Gospel According to John  (  Greek τὸ  κατὰ  Ἰωάννην  εὐαγγέλιον  )  ,  commonly referred to as  the  Gospel of John or simply John and  प्रायः  referred to in New Testament  स्कॉलरशिप  as the Fourth Gospel ,  is  an account of the public ministry of Jesus .
It begins with the  गवाह  and  प्रतिज्ञान  by  जॉन  the Baptist and concludes with the death , burial ,  क़यामत  , and post-resurrection appearances of Jesus .
This account is fourth of  the  canonical gospels , after  the  synoptics Matthew , Mark and Luke  .
states  कि  the book derives from the testimony  of  the ' disciple whom Jesus loved . '
Along with Peter , the unnamed disciple is especially close to Jesus , and early-church tradition identified him as John  the  Apostle , one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles .
The gospel is closely related in style and content to the three  surviving  Epistles of John such that commentators treat the four books together , yet , according to most modern scholars , John was not the author of any of these books  .
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship more  और  more has placed John within  a  first-century Jewish context .
Raymond  E.   भूरा  did pioneering work to  ट्रेस   the  development of the  परंपरा  from which the gospel arose .
The discourses seem to be concerned with the actual issues of the church-and-synagogue debate at the time when the Gospel was written .
It is notable  कि  , in the gospel , the community still appears to  define  itself primarily against Judaism , rather than as part of a wider  ईसाई  church .
Though Christianity started as a movement within Judaism , gradually Christians and Jews became bitterly opposed .
John presents a  ``  higher '' Christology than the synoptics  ,  meaning that it describes Jesus as the  अवतार  of the divine Logos through whom all things were made , as the object of  veneration  , and more explicitly as God incarnate .
तभी  in John  करता   यीशु  talk at  लंबाई  about himself and his  दैवी   भूमिका  , often shared with the disciples only .
Against the synoptics , John  focuses  largely on different miracles ( including resurrecting Lazarus )  ,  given as signs meant to engender faith .
Synoptic elements  ऐसे  as parables and exorcisms are not found in John .
It presents a realized eschatology in which salvation is already present for the  आस्तिक  .
The Plagues of Egypt ( ) , also called the Ten Plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues ,  यहूद  ten calamities that , according to the biblical  किताब  of Exodus ,  इसराईल  's God , Yahweh , inflicted upon Egypt to persuade Pharaoh to release the ill-treated Israelites from slavery .
Pharaoh capitulated after the tenth plague , triggering the Exodus of the Jewish  लोगों  .
The plagues were designed to contrast the power of  yahweh  with the impotence of  मिश्र  's various gods .
Some commentators  have  associated several of the plagues with judgment on specific  देवताओं  associated with the Nile , fertility and  प्राकृतिक   phenomena  .
The plagues of Egypt are also  उल्लेखित  in the Quran ( 7,133–136  )  .
according  to the Book of Exodus , God proclaims that all the gods of Egypt will be judged through the tenth and final plague:
John Martin 's painting of the plague of hail and fire ( 1823 ) .
A role-playing game ( RPG  और  sometimes roleplaying game ) is a game in which players assume the roles of  वर्ण  in a fictional setting .
Players take responsibility for  एक्टिंग   आउट  these roles within a narrative , either through literal acting or through a process of structured decision-making or character development .
Actions taken within many games succeed or fail  according  to a formal  प्रणाली  of rules and guidelines .
There are several forms  of   आरपीजी  .
The  असली   रूप  , sometimes  पुकारा  the  tabletop  RPG ,  is  conducted through discussion ,  whereas  in live action role-playing games ( LARP ) players physically perform their characters ' actions .
In both of these forms , an arranger called a game master ( GM ) usually decides on  the  rules and setting  to  be used and acts as referee  ,   जबकि   प्रत्येक  of  the  other players plays the role of a  सिंगल  character .
Several varieties of RPG also exist in electronic  मीडिया  , such as multi-player text-based MUDs and their graphics-based successors , massively  एकाधिक  online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ) .
Role-playing games also include  single-player  offline role-playing  वीडियो  games in which players control a character or team who undertake quests , and  may  include capabilities that  अग्रिम  using statistical  यांत्रिकी  .
ये  games often share settings and  नियम  with tabletop RPGs , but emphasize character advancement more than collaborative storytelling .
Despite this variety of forms , some game forms such as trading card games and  wargames  that are related to  role-playing  games may not be  शामिल  .
Role-playing  कार्यकलाप  may sometimes be present in such  खेल  , but  it  is not the  प्राथमिक  focus .
the  term is also sometimes used to describe roleplay simulation games and exercises used in teaching ,  प्रशिक्षण   ,  and academic research .
The  अमरीकी  Civil War ( ACW ) , also known  as  the War between the States or simply the Civil War (  देखिए  naming ) , was a civil  युद्ध  fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union ''  or  the `` North '' ) and several Southern  स्लेव  states  कि  declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of  अमेरिका  ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in  the  issue of slavery , especially the  एक्सटेंशन  of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign powers did  नहीं  intervene  .
After four years  of  bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was  abolished  , and the difficult Reconstruction process of  restoring  national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
in  the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding  गुलामी  into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven  cotton-based  slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans  अस्वीकृत   secession  as illegal .
lincoln  's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate civil war  .
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces  जब्त  numerous federal forts within territory  claimed  by the  confederacy  .
A Peace Conference failed  to  find a compromise , and both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so  निर्भर  on ``  किंग  Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none  पहचाना  the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861  ,  when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union  सैनिकों  in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to  retake  the fort  ;  consequently , four more slave states joined  the  Confederacy  ,  bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in  1861–62  .
The autumn 1862 Confederate  अभियान  into Maryland ( a Union state )  ended  with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British  हस्तक्षेप  .
Lincoln  जारी  the Emancipation  उदघोषणा  , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by  गर्मियाँ  1862 the Union  नष्ट  the Confederate river  नेवी  , then much of their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg  विभाजित  the Confederacy in two  at  the Mississippi  नदी   .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at  the  Battle of Gettysburg  .
Western successes led to  ulysses  S. Grant command  of  all  संघ  armies in 1864 .
In the  पश्चिमी  Theater , William T. Sherman drove  ईस्ट  to capture Atlanta  और  marched to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union  marshaled  the resources and manpower  to  attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
the  defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox  अदालत  House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of the earliest true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced  हथियार  were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food  आपूर्तियाँ  all foreshadowed World War  i  .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths  of  an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates  the  death toll  at  ten percent of all Northern males 20–45  सालो  old , and 30 percent of all Southern white  males  aged 18–40 .
The definition of the world 's busiest airport has been specified by the  एयरपोर्ट  Council International in Geneva , Switzerland .
the  ACI  defines  and measures the following three types of airport traffic:
Passenger traffic : total passengers emplaned and deplaned  ,  passengers in transit counted once
Cargo traffic : loaded and unloaded  भाड़ा  and mail in metric tonnes
Traffic movements : landings and take-offs of aircraft
World War I ( WWI ) was a global  युद्ध  centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It  थी  predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its  occurrence  until the start of World War II in  1939  , and the  पहला  World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved  सब  the  संसार  's  ग्रेट  powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies  (  based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia )  और  the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter  into  the war )  .
These alliances were  दोनो  reorganised and expanded as more nations entered  the  war : Italy  ,  Japan and  the  United  राज्य  joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central  शक्तियां  .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel , including 60 million Europeans , were mobilised in one of the  largest  wars in history .
अधिक  than 9 million combatants were killed ,  largely  because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
it  was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently  paving  the way for various political changes , such as revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of  the  great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne  of  Austria-Hungary , on 28 June  1914  by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo  princip  in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of  सर्बिया  .
Several alliances formed over  the  previous decades were invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers  यहूद  at war and , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread around  the  world  .
On 28  जुलाई  , the Austro-Hungarians fired the  पहला  shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and  ध्वज  on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war  विरूद्ध  Germany .
After the German  कूच  on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition  साथ  a trench  लकीर  that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army  थी   कामयाब  against the Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war ,  खोलने  up fronts in the Caucasus  ,  Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the  त्सार  's government collapsed  in   कूच  1917 and a subsequent revolution  in  November brought the Russians to terms with  the  Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives  और  American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to an  armistice  on 11  नवम्बर  1918 .
The war ended in victory for  the  Allies  .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as  the  participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the  समाप्त  of the  युद्ध  , four major imperial powers—the German ,  रूसी  , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory , while the latter two  यहूद  dismantled entirely .
The map of central Europe was redrawn into several  छोटी  states .
The League of Nations  थी  formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict .
the  European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires ,  the  repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( also referred to as the BP oil spill , the  bp  oil disaster , the Gulf of Mexico oil spill ,  और   the  Macondo blowout ) was an oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico on the BP -operated Macondo Prospect ,  माना  the largest accidental marine oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry , estimated to be between  8  % and 31 % larger  in  volume than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill .
Following the explosion and  डूब  of the  deepwater  Horizon oil rig , which claimed 11 lives , a sea-floor oil gusher flowed  unabated  for 87 days , until it was capped  on  15 July 2010  .
The total discharge  is  estimated at .
A  विशाल  response ensued to protect beaches , wetlands  और  estuaries from the spreading oil utilizing skimmer ships , floating booms , controlled burns and of  corexit  oil dispersant .
After  अनेक  failed efforts to contain the flow , the well was declared sealed on 19 September 2010 .
Some reports  indicate  the well site continues to  लीक  .
Due  to  the months-long spill , along with adverse effects from the response and cleanup activities , extensive damage to marine and wildlife habitats , fishing and tourism industries , and human health problems have continued through 2013.Three years after the spill , tar balls could  स्टिल  be found on the Mississippi coast  .
Numerous investigations explored  the  causes of the explosion and record-setting spill .
Notably , the U.S. government 's September 2011 report pointed to defective cement on the  खूब  , faulting mostly BP , but also well operator Transocean and contractor Halliburton .
Earlier in 2011 , a White House commission likewise blamed BP and its partners for a series  of  cost-cutting  निर्णय  and an  अपर्याप्त  safety system  ,  but also concluded that the spill resulted from `` systemic '' root causes and  ``  absent significant  सुधार  in both industry practices and  सरकारी   नीतियों  , might  खूब  recur '' .
In November 2012 , BP and the  संयुक्त  States Department of Justice settled federal criminal charges with BP pleading guilty  to  11 counts of manslaughter , two misdemeanors , and a felony count  of  lying to Congress  .
BP also agreed to four years of government monitoring  of  its safety practices and ethics , and the Environmental Protection Agency announced that BP would be  temporarily  banned from new contracts with the US government .
BP and the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $ 4.525 billion in fines and  अन्य  payments but further legal proceedings not expected to conclude until 2014 are ongoing to determine payouts and  जुर्माना  under the Clean Water Act and the Natural Resources Damage Assessment .
As of February 2013 ,  दण्ड  and civil  settlements   और  payments  to  a trust fund had cost the company $ 42.2 billion .
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' is a song by rock  बैंड  U2 .
It is the opening track from their 1987 album The Joshua Tree and was released as the album 's third single in August 1987  .
The song 's hook is a repeating guitar arpeggio using a delay  प्रभाव  , played during the song 's introduction and again at the end  .
Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to the notion that it is possible to identify a person 's religion and income based  on  the street on which they lived , particularly in Belfast .
दौरान  the  बैंड  's difficulties recording the song , producer Brian Eno considered  erasing  the song 's tapes to have  उन्हें  start from scratch .
`` Where the  गलियों   have  No Name  ''  was praised by critics  और  became a commercial success , peaking at number thirteen in the US , number fourteen in Canada , number ten in the Netherlands , and number four in  the  United Kingdom .
The song  रै  become one of the band 's most popular songs and has remained a staple of their live act since the song  debuted  in  1987  on The  जोशुआ  Tree Tour .
The song was notably performed on a Los Angeles rooftop for the filming of its music video , which won  a  Grammy Award for Best  प्रदर्शन  Music Video .Recently the song has been  प्रयुक्त  by the NFL 's Baltimore Ravens as their entrance  सोंग  in Super Bowl XLVII
Thomas  जेफरी  `` Tom '' Hanks ( born July 9 , 1956 ) is  an  American actor , producer , writer , and director .
Hanks is known for his roles in Apollo 13 , Big , That Thing You Do !
, The Green  मील  , You 've Got Mail , Sleepless in Seattle , Charlie Wilson 's War , Catch Me If You Can , Forrest Gump , Cast Away , A League of Their Own , The Da Vinci Code , Angels & Demons , as well as animated films like the Toy Story film series , The Polar Express , and  the  Simpsons Movie .
He has earned  और  been nominated for numerous awards during his career ,  सहित  winning a Golden Globe for Best Actor and an Academy Award for Best Actor for his  भूमिका  in Philadelphia and a Golden Globe , an  अकादमी  Award , a Screen  अभिनेताओं  Guild  पुरस्कार  , and a People 's Choice Award for Best Actor for his role in Forrest Gump ,  और  earning the  स्टेनली  Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004 .
Hanks is also known for his collaboration with film director  स्टीवन  Spielberg on Saving  निजी  Ryan and the mini-series Band of Brothers , which launched Hanks also as a successful director , producer and writer .
As of 2012 ,  हैंक्स  '  films  have grossed over $ 4.2 billion  at  the United States  बक्सा  office alone , and over $ 8.5 billion worldwide making  उसे  the highest all-time  बक्सा  office star .
The Cape is an American superhero drama  श्रेणी  .
it   premiered  on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season replacement beginning with  a  two-hour pilot  एपीसोड  on Sunday , January 9 , 2011 at 9 pm Eastern and Pacific Time .
An encore played on Monday , January 10 , with follow-up episodes continuing on Monday evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning  on  January 17 .
NBC subsequently cut the  कुल   क्रमांक  of episodes to be aired from 13 to 10 as a result of low ratings .
On  कूच  2 , 2011 , NBC announced that  the  series finale would only be aired on the network 's website .
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or )  ,  officially designated 1P/Halley , is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years .
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the  नग्न  eye from Earth , and thus the only naked-eye comet that might  appear  twice in a human lifetime .
Other naked-eye  धूमकेतुओं  may be brighter and more spectacular , but will appear only once in thousands  of  years .
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have been  observed  and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE .
Clear records of the comet 's  दिखावे  were made by Chinese , Babylonian , and medieval European chroniclers ,  लकिन  were not recognized as reappearances of  the  same object at the time .
The comet 's periodicity was first determined  in  1705 by English astronomer Edmond Halley , after whom it is now named .
Halley 's  धूमकेतु   पिछला  appeared in the inner Solar System in 1986 and will next  appear  in mid-2061 .
During its 1986 apparition , Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft , providing the first observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism  of  coma  और  tail formation .
These observations  समर्थित  a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction , particularly Fred Whipple 's  ``  dirty snowball '' model ,  जिससे  correctly predicted that Halley would be  रचित  of a mixture of volatile  ices  –  ऐसे  as  जल  , carbon  डाइऑक्साइड  and ammonia – and dust .
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed  और  reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood  कि  Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty , non-volatile materials  ,  and that only a small portion of it is icy .
The following is a list  of  the most populous incorporated places of the United States of America .
As defined by the United States Census Bureau , an `` incorporated place `` includes a variety of designations , including city , town , village , borough , and municipality .
a  few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) are also included in the Census Bureau 's listing of incorporated places .
Consolidated city-counties represent  a  distinct type of government that includes the entire population of a  काउंटी  , or  काउंटी  equivalent .
Some consolidated city-counties , however , include multiple incorporated places .
This list presents only that portion (  or  `` balance '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated place .
Note that  इस   सूची  refers  तभी  to the population of individual municipalities within  उनके  defined limits , which does not include other  municipalities  or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations .
A different ranking is evident when considering U.S. metropolitan area populations .
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported  102  English Pilgrims , including a core group of  separatists  , to New England .
Their story is one of travail and survival in  a  harsh New World environment  .
A New Zealand forward ( in white ) takes a shot on goal against Cameroon in the 2011 FIFA U-20 World  कप  .
Forwards , also known as strikers , are  the  players on a team in association football who play nearest to the opposing team 's goal , and are therefore principally responsible for scoring goals .
This very advanced position and its limited defensive responsibilities mean forwards normally score more goals than other players  .
This position requires  प्रज्ञा   ,  speed , and power  ,  both of execution and of thought , to perform the role well  .
आधुनिक  team formations usually include one to three forwards ; two is the most common .
Coaches typically  फ़ील्ड  one striker who plays in an advanced position  (  the centre forward ) ,  और  another attacking forward who  plays   somewhat  deeper and assists in making goals as well as scoring ( the second striker ) .
it  should be noted that inside forwards develop from attacking midfield positions and hence are  naturally  midfielders .
Barcelona FC star Lionel Messi is  a  typical Attacking Midfielder seen as a forward due to his shot  सटीकता  .
A California domestic partnership is a legal relationship  उपलब्धियाँ  to same-sex couples , and  to  certain opposite-sex couples in which at least one party is at least  18  years of age .
It affords the couple `` the same rights ,  protections  , and benefits , and ... the  वही  responsibilities  ,  obligations , and duties under law ... '' as married spouses .
Enacted in 1999 , the domestic partnership registry was the first of its kind in the United States created by  a  legislature without court intervention .
Initially , domestic partnerships enjoyed very few privileges—principally just hospital-visitation  अधिकारों   और  the right to be claimed as a next of kin of the estate of a  मृतक  partner .
the  legislature has since expanded the scope of California domestic partnerships to  शामिल  all of the rights and  जिम्मेदारियों   आम  to  विवाह  .
As such , California domestic partnerships are functionally equivalent to civil unions offered in several other states .
Although the program  enjoys  broad  support  in California , it has been the source of some controversy .
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex families have challenged the expansion of  घरेलू  partnerships in court .
Conversely , advocates of same-sex marriage contend that anything less than full marriage rights extended to  same-sex  partners is analogous to the `` separate but equal '' racial laws of the Jim Crow era .
चिह्नित  A. Jackson ( born April 1 , 1965 ) is an American basketball coach , and former  खिलाड़ी  who is the current head coach of the Golden State Warriors  of  the NBA .
a  point guard from  st.  John 's University , he  निभाई  for the  नई  York Knicks , Indiana Pacers , Los Angeles Clippers , Denver Nuggets , Toronto Raptors  ,  Utah Jazz and Houston Rockets in  the  NBA  in  a career spanning from 1987 to 2004 .
Jackson has  भी  worked as  a  commentator for ESPN and ABC alongside his former coach Jeff Van  gundy  and play-by-play man Mike Breen .
He was previously an  एनबीए  analyst for The YES Network 's New Jersey Nets games .
South Africa has eleven official languages : Afrikaans , English , Ndebele , Northern Sotho ,  sotho  , Swazi , Tswana , Tsonga , Venda , Xhosa and Zulu .
Fewer than two percent  of  South Africans  बोलो  a first language other than an official one .
Most  दक्षिण  Africans  can  speak more than one language  .
Dutch and  अंग्रेज़ी  were the first  आधिकारिक   भाषाएं  of South Africa from 1910 to 1925 .
Afrikaans was added as a part of Dutch in 1925 .
डच  was replaced by Afrikaans when South Africa became a republic in 1961  ,  and  डच  was dropped in 1983 , so between 1983  और  1994 , South  अफ़्रीकी  had two official languages :  अंग्रेज़ी  and Afrikaans .
The English  संस्करण   of  the South African  संविधान  refers to the languages by the names in those languages : isiZulu , isiXhosa ,  अफ्रीकी  , Sepedi ( referring to Northern Sotho ) , Setswana ,  अंग्रेज़ी  , Sesotho ( referring to Southern Sotho ) , Xitsonga  ,  Siswati , Tshivenda and isiNdebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ) .
In South Africa , Southern Ndebele is known simply as Ndebele , as most speakers of Northern Ndebele live in Zimbabwe .
The 1993 version of the Constitution referred to Northern Sotho as Sesotho sa Leboa  ,  but the 1996 version referred to the  भाषा  as Sepedi .
Different government departments and official  लाशें  use  अलग  terms to denote Northern  sotho   .
The  प्रमुख  language of government is  अंग्रेज़ी  even if South Africans often take pride  in  using indigenous languages for any purpose .
Afrikaans also features prominently in commerce together with  अंग्रेज़ी   as  the languages with  the  highest  क्रमांक  of fluent speakers  हैं  Afrikaans and English .
In terms of linguistic classification , the official languages include two West-Germanic languages ( English and Afrikaans  )  and nine Bantu languages .
Four of these are Nguni languages ( Zulu , Xhosa , Swati and  ndebele  ) and three are Sotho–Tswana languages  (   उत्तरी  Sotho ,  दक्षिणी  Sotho and Tswana ) .
Tsonga is a Tswa–Ronga language .
South African Sign Language is a distinct though  incompletely  emerged national standard  भाषा  which also subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects  .
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of aluminium  और  nitric acid , existing normally as a crystalline hydrate , most commonly as aluminium nitrate nonahydrate  ,  Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O .
the  New York Jets are a professional football team headquartered in Florham Park  ,  New Jersey , representing the New York metropolitan area .
The team is a member of the Eastern Division of  the  American Football Conference ( AFC ) in the  नेशनल  Football League ( NFL ) .
In a  अद्वितीय  arrangement for the league , the Jets share MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford , New Jersey with  the  New York Giants .
The franchise is legally and corporately  पंजीकृत  as New York Jets , LLC  .
the  team was founded in 1959 as the Titans of New York , an original member of the American Football League ; later , the franchise  joined  the NFL in the AFL–NFL merger .
the  team began to play in 1960 at  the  Polo  grounds  .
Under new ownership , the current name was adopted in  1963  and  the  franchise was relocated to Shea Stadium in 1964 and then to the Meadowlands Sports Complex  in  1984 .
The Jets advanced  to  the playoffs for the first  समय  in  1968  and went on to compete in Super Bowl III where they defeated the  बाल्टीमोर   कोल्टस  , becoming the first AFL team to defeat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL  संसार  Championship Game .
Since 1968 , the Jets have appeared in the playoffs thirteen times , and in the  afc  Championship Game four times ,  सबसे  recently losing to the Pittsburgh  स्टीलर्स   in  2010 .
However , the Jets have never  लौटे  to the Super Bowl , making them one of three NFL teams to win their lone Super Bowl appearance , along with the New Orleans Saints  और  Tampa Bay Buccaneers .
The team 's  प्रशिक्षण  facility , Atlantic Health Jets Training Center , which opened in  2008  , is located in Florham Park .
The team currently holds  उनके   सालाना  training  शिविर  sessions  on  the campus of the State University of New York at Cortland in Cortland , New York while holding occasional sessions at the Florham Park complex .
Psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms , also known as psychedelic  मशरूम  , are fungi  कि  contain psychoactive indole alkaloids .
There are  अनेक  colloquial terms for psilocybin  मशरूम  ,  the  most common being shrooms and magic mushrooms .
Biological genera  containing  psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe ,  conocybe  , Copelandia , Galerina , Gerronema , Gymnopilus , Hypholoma ,  inocybe  , Mycena , Panaeolus , Pluteus , and Psilocybe  .
There are  लगभग  190 species of psilocybin mushrooms and most of them fall in the genus  psilocybe  .
psilocybin  mushrooms have likely been used since prehistoric times and may have  महरूम  depicted in rock art .
अनेक  cultures  have  used these mushrooms in religious rites .
In modern Western society they are used recreationally  लिये  their psychedelic effects  .
Recent studies done at Imperial College London and Johns Hopkins School of  आयुर्विज्ञान  conclude that when used properly , psilocybin acts as an anti-depressant as suggested by fMRI brain scans .
Alaska (  )  is a state  in  the United States , situated in the northwest  extremity  of the North American continent  ,  with the international boundary with Canada to the east , the Arctic Ocean  to  the  उत्तर  , and the Pacific  समंदर  to the west and south , with Russia further west across the Bering Strait .
Alaska is the largest state  in  the United States by area , the 4th  तनिक  populous and the least densely populated of the 50 United States .
लगभग  half  of  Alaska 's 731,449 residents live within the Anchorage metropolitan area .
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil , natural gas , and fishing industries ; it has  ये  resources in abundance .
Alaska was purchased from  रूस  on March 30 , 1867  ,  for $ 7.2  लाख  ( $ adjusted for inflation  )   at  approximately two cents per acre (  $  4.74/km2 ) .
the  land went through several administrative changes before becoming an  व्यवस्थित  ( or incorporated ) territory on  may  11 , 1912 , and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3 , 1959 .
The  नाम  `` Alaska ''  (  Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian  औपनिवेशिक   काल  , when it was used only for  the  peninsula and is  निकला  from the Aleut alaxsxaq  ,  meaning `` the mainland '' or  ,  more literally , `` the object towards which  the  action  of  the sea  is   निर्देशित  '' .
It is also known as Alyeska , the `` great land '' , an  aleut  word derived from the same root .
The 101 French departments are divided into 342 arrondissements , which may be translated into English as districts .
The capital of an arrondissement/district is called a subprefecture .
When an arrondissement contains the  प्रीफ़ेक्चर  ( capital ) of the department , that  प्रीफ़ेक्चर  is the capital of the arrondissement , acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture .
Arrondissements are  further  divided into cantons and communes  .
The vagina ( from Latin vāgīna  ,  literally `` sheath '' or `` scabbard `` ) is a tubular tract  जिससे  is  a  sex organ and has two main  कृत्यों  ; sexual  मैथुन  and childbirth .
In humans ,  इस  passage leads from the opening  of  the vulva to the uterus ( womb ) ,  लकिन  the vaginal tract ends at the cervix .
Unlike  मेन  , who have only one genital orifice , women have two , the urethra and the vagina .
The vaginal opening is much larger than the urethral opening , and both openings are protected by the labia .
the  inner mould of the vagina has a foldy texture which can create friction for the penis during intercourse .
दौरान  arousal , the vagina gets moist to facilitate the  प्रवेश  of the penis .
The Latinate plural `` vaginae '' is  rarely  used in English .
Colloquially , the word vagina is often used to refer to the vulva or to the female genitals in  सामान्य  .
However , by its dictionary and anatomical definitions , vagina refers exclusively to the specific  आतंरिक  structure .
The Cincinnati Reds are  a   प्रमुख  League Baseball team  आधारित  in  सिनसिनाटी  , Ohio  .
They are members of the National League Central Division .
Established in 1881 as an independent club , the team became a  चार्टर  member of the  अमरीकी  Association in 1882 , and  joined  the National League in 1890 .
The club traditionally traces its origin to baseball 's first openly professional team in 1869  .
The Reds have won five World Series titles ,  एक   अमरीकी  Association pennant  ,  nine National League pennants and ten division titles .
The Reds played in the National League West between 1969  और  1993 and have been in the National League Central since 1994 .
Since 2003 , the Reds  have  played at Great American Ball Park , built next to their  घर   इससे  1970 to 2002 , Riverfront Stadium  .
bob  Castellini has owned the Cincinnati Reds since 2006  .
A prank stink bomb .
A stink bomb is a device designed to create an unpleasant  महकते  .
They range  in  effectiveness from simple  pranks  to military grade malodorants or  riot  control chemical agents .
The Guinness Book of  रिकॉर्ड  lists two smelliest substances .
One is `` US Government Standard Bathroom Malodor '' ; a mixture of eight chemicals with  a  stench resembling human feces , only much stronger , designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers  और   एयर  fresheners .
another  one , `` Who me ? `` , is a mixture  of  five  sulfur-containing  chemicals  और   खुश्बू  like rotting food and carcasses .
The adage `` A  चित्र  is worth a thousand  शब्द   ''  refers to the notion that a complex idea can be conveyed with  बस  a single still image .
It also aptly characterizes one of  the  main goals of visualization  ,  namely making it possible to absorb large amounts of data quickly  .
The  अभिव्यक्ति  `` Use a picture .
It 's worth  a  thousand words  .  '' appears in a 1911 newspaper article quoting newspaper editor Arthur Brisbane discussing journalism and publicity .
1913 newspaper advertisement
A similar phrase , ``  एक  Look Is Worth A Thousand Words '' , appears in a 1913 newspaper advertisement for the Piqua Auto  सप्लाई  House of Piqua , Ohio .
An early use of  the  exact phrase appears in an 1918 newspaper advertisement  लिये  the San Antonio Light  जिससे  says :  एक  of the Nation 's Greatest Editors Says : One Picture is Worth  a  Thousand Words The San Antonio Light 's Pictorial Magazine of  the  War  exemplifies  the truth of the above statement -- judging from the warm reception it has received at the hands of the Sunday Light readers .
It is believed by  कुछ  that the modern use of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R. Barnard in the  विज्ञापन  trade journal Printers ' Ink , promoting the use of images in advertisements  कि  appeared on the sides of streetcars .
The December 8 , 1921 issue carries an ad  हकदार  , `` One Look is Worth A Thousand Words  .  ''
Another ad by Barnard  appears  in the March 10 , 1927 issue with the phrase `` One Picture Worth Ten Thousand Words  ,  '' where it is labeled a Chinese proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ) .
The Home Book of Proverbs , Maxims , and Familiar Phrases quotes Barnard as saying he  पुकारा  it `` a Chinese proverb , so that  लोगों  would take it seriously .  ''
Soon after , the  कहावत  would become popularly attributed to Confucius .
The discussion  of   ``  One Picture Worth Thousand Words '' versus `` One Picture  लायक  Ten Thousand Words '' Wan yen I hua and 10.000 miles worth 10.000 books is cited in Information graphics where  the  concept of  अनेक  in different disciplines  और  cultures .
A picture is worth a  हजार   शब्द
Despite this modern origin of the popular phrase , the sentiment has been expressed  by  earlier writers .
For example the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev wrote ( in Fathers and Sons in 1862 ) , `` A picture shows me at a glance what  it  takes dozens of pages of  a  book to expound . ''
Computer programmer  और  author Fred  ब्रूक्स  makes an opposite statement regarding  प्रोग्रामिंग   in  The Mythical Man-Month : `` Show  me  your flowcharts and  छिपाते  your tables  ,  and I  shall  continue to  be  mystified .
Show me  अपना  tables , and I won’t usually need your flowcharts ; they’ll be  स्पष्ट  . ''
The phrase  रै  also been  spoofed  by John McCarthy , the  प्रसिद्ध  computer scientist , to make the opposite point  :  ``  as  the Chinese say , 1001 words is worth more than a picture . ''
A season is a subdivision of the year , marked by changes in weather , ecology  ,   और  hours of daylight .
सीज़न  result from the yearly revolution of the Earth around the  सूर्य   और  the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane  of  revolution .
In temperate and polar regions  ,  the seasons  हैं  marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface  ,  variations  of  which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to  migrate  , and plants to be dormant .
During  may  , June and July , the northern hemisphere  is  exposed  to  more direct sunlight because  the  hemisphere faces the sun .
The same is true of the southern hemisphere  in  November , December and January .
It is the tilt  of  the Earth that  कल्याणकारी  the Sun to be higher in the sky during the  गर्मियाँ   महीने  which increases  the  solar flux .
However  ,  due to seasonal lag  ,  June , July  और  August are the  hottest  months in the northern hemisphere  और   दिसम्बर  , January and February are the hottest months  in  the southern hemisphere .
In temperate and  subpolar  regions ,  generally  four calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal )  ,  summer  (  estival ) , autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ) .
However  ,  ecologists mostly use a six  ऋतु   मॉडल  for temperate climate  regions  that includes pre-spring ( prevernal  )   और  late summer  (  serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four  .
Hot regions  have  two or three seasons ; the  बरसात   (  or wet , or monsoon ) season and the dry season , and in some tropical  क्षेत्रों  , a cool  or   mild  season .
In some parts of the world , special `` seasons '' are loosely defined based on important events such as a hurricane season  ,  tornado season or a  दावानल  season  .
The six ecological seasons
The four calendar seasons , depicted in an ancient  रोमन  mosaic from  ट्यूनीशिया
Dutch exports in 2006
At the time of writing  the  Netherlands is the 17th largest economy of the world .
(  see : List of countries by GDP ( nominal ) )
GDP per capita is roughly $ 42,000 which puts it in the top 10 of richest nations in the  संसार   (  see : List of countries by GDP ( PPP  )  per capita ) .
Between 1996 and 2000 annual economic growth ( GDP ) averaged over 4 % ,  खूब  above the European average .
Growth slowed considerably  in   2001-05  as part of the global  आर्थिक  slowdown .
2006 and 2007 however showed economic growth of 3.4  %  and 3.9 % .
The Dutch economy was hit  considerably  by the  जारी  global financial crisis and the ensuing European debt crisis  .
Several banks  गई  bankrupt , and a  क्रमांक  of others had to receive governmental  सहायता  .
In 2009 the economy declined with 3.5 % , followed  by  two years  of  mild growth  .
The Dutch economy is currently in  a  recession again  ,  with an economic decline of 0.5 % in 2012 .
Inflation is at 3.2 % in February 2013 .
Unemployment has been relatively low compared to other EU  राष्ट्र  for decades but after mid-2012 it has seen a fast increase and in February 2013 it has  hit  7.7 % .
The Netherlands managed to maintain its AAA rating at least until March 2013 according to the three major credit rating agencies  .
Historically , the Dutch introduced and invented  the  stock market by the merchandise trading through Dutch West India Company .
The Netherlands is a founding member of  the  European  संघ  , the OECD and the World Trade Organization .
Loyal to the Game is the tenth studio album and  छठे  studio album by Tupac Shakur .
it  contains remixes of  previously  unreleased music recorded by Shakur before  उसके  death in 1996 .
Released in  the  United States on December 14 , 2004 ( December  12  in the United Kingdom ) , Loyal to the Game was produced by Eminem .
The  असली  panel of The View ; Meredith Vieira ,  स्टार  Jones , Debbie Matenopoulos and Barbara Walters in 1997 .
The View is an American  बात  show broadcast on ABC that debuted in 1997 as part of the network 's daytime programming block .
Created by Barbara Walters and Bill Geddie , who both also  serve  as the show 's executive producers , the  कार्यक्रम  features a panel of women as co-hosts .
Along with Walters , the current panel includes Whoopi Goldberg , who serves as the moderator , Joy Behar , Elisabeth Hasselbeck , and  sherri  Shepherd .
International versions of  the  program  हैं  aired in several  देशों  .
As of the 2012–13 season  ,  its 16th ,  the  View is the fourth-longest running national daytime talk show in history  ,  behind The Phil Donahue Show ( 29 ) , the variously-named Live !
programs  (  25 ) , and  the   ओपरा  Winfrey Show ( 25 ) .
Prunus virginiana ,  commonly  called bitter-berry , chokecherry , Virginia bird cherry  और  western chokecherry ( also black chokecherry for P. virginiana var . demissa ) , is a species of bird cherry ( Prunus subgenus Padus ) native to North America ; the natural historic range of P. virginiana  शामिल  most  of  the continent , except for the far north and far south .
Los Angeles International  विमानक्षेत्र  is the primary airport serving the Greater Los Angeles Area , the  second-most  populated metropolitan area in the United  राज्य  .
It is most often referred to by its IATA airport code LAX , with  the  letters  सुनाया  individually  .
lax  is located in southwestern Los Angeles along the Pacific  coast  in the neighborhood  of   westchester  , from the downtown core and  is  the primary airport of  लॉस  Angeles World Airports (  lawa  )  ,  an agency of the Los  एंजिल्स  city government formerly known as the Department of Airports .
In 2011 ,  lax  was the sixth busiest  विमानक्षेत्र   in  the world after  hartsfield-jackson  Atlanta International Airport  ,  Beijing Capital International  विमानक्षेत्र  , London Heathrow Airport , Chicago O'Hare International Airport , and Tokyo  haneda  International Airport with  61,862,052  passengers .
The airport holds the claim for `` the world 's busiest origin  और  destination ( O & D ) airport '' in 2011 that involves  non-connecting  passenger traffic .
It is  भी  the only airport to rank among the top five U.S. airports for both passenger and cargo traffic .
LAX  is   the  busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area , but other airports  सहित  Bob Hope Airport , John  वेन  Airport  ,  Long Beach Airport  ,  LA/Ontario International Airport , and Palm Springs International  विमानक्षेत्र   भी   serve  the region .
LAX is also the busiest  विमानक्षेत्र   in  California and the West Coast of the United States in terms of flight operations , passenger traffic and air cargo activity , leading it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific Rim `` .
Peyton Williams Manning ( born March  24  , 1976 ) is an American football  क्वार्टरबैक  for the  डेनवर  Broncos of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He played for the Indianapolis  कोल्टस  for 14 seasons from 1998 to 2011 .
He is the  बेटे  of former NFL quarterback Archie Manning and an  elder  brother of New York Giants quarterback Eli  मैनिंग  .
Manning played  कॉलेज  football for the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Tennessee  ,  leading the Volunteers to the 1997 SEC Championship in his  वरिष्ठ  season .
However , No . 3 Tennessee lost to the No . 2 Nebraska Cornhuskers 42-17  in  the Orange Bowl  giving  Nebraska and Tom Osborne  उनके  3rd national championship in 4 years .
He was chosen by the Indianapolis Colts with the first overall pick in the  1998  NFL Draft .
From 1998 to 2010 , he led the Colts to eight  (  seven AFC South  और  one AFC East  )  division championships , two AFC championships , and to a  सुपर  Bowl championship ( Super Bowl XLI ) .
He  रै   जीती  a  रिकार्ड  four league most valuable player awards  ,  was  the  most valuable player of Super Bowl XLI  ,  has been named to twelve Pro Bowls , has twelve 4,000-yard passing seasons , and is the Indianapolis Colts ' all-time  नेता  in passing yards ( 54,828 ) and touchdown  गुजरता  (  399  ) .
In 2009 , he was  नामित  the best player in the NFL and Fox Sports along with Sports Illustrated named  उसे  the NFL player of  the  decade of  the  2000s .
In May 2011 , he underwent neck surgery to  alleviate  neck pain and arm weakness he dealt with during the previous few seasons before signing a five-year , $ 90 million contract extension with the  कोल्टस  in July 2011 .
मैनिंग  had hoped to play in the 2011 season , but in September 2011 , he underwent a much more  गंभीर  second surgery : a level one  सर्वाइकल  fusion procedure .
Manning had never missed an NFL game in his career , but was forced to  मिस  the entire 2011 season .
He was released by  the  Colts on March 7 , 2012 , and after  an  almost two-week period where he  visited  with and worked out for several NFL teams , he signed with  the  Denver Broncos on March 20  ,  2012 .
Manning 's pre-snap routine  रै  earned him the nickname , `` The Sheriff '' and is one of the  सबसे  recognizable and parodied in the NFL .
The Indianapolis Colts ' almost  विशेष  use of the hurry-up offense led to Manning using an array of gestures and  मौखिक  commands to call the play at the line of scrimmage rather than in the huddle .
The America Tower of the American General Center , the headquarters of Baker Hughes
Baker Hughes is one of the world 's largest oilfield services companies .
It operates in over 90 countries , providing the oil and gas industry with products  और  services for drilling , formation evaluation ,  पूर्णता  , production and reservoir consulting  .
बेकर   ह्यूजेस  has its headquarters in  the  America  मीनार  in  the  American General Center in Neartown , Houston  .
Baker Hughes Incorporated was formed when Baker International and Hughes Tool  कम्पनी  merged in 1987 .
Baker Hughes operates worldwide with major offices in Liverpool , United Kingdom ;  सिंगापुर  ;  दुबई  ; a research and maintenance  सुविधा  in Celle , Germany ; Lafayette , Louisiana ; Houston , Texas ; Pescara ,  इटली  ; and Kuala Lumpur ,  मलेशिया  .
The company is administered broadly in two hemispheres : the eastern hemisphere with five regions ( Europe , Africa , the Middle East , Asia Pacific and Russia/Caspian ) and the western hemisphere with four regions  (  Canada , US Land , US Gulf , and Latin America ) .
Each of these regions is subdivided into markets .
The United States one-  cent  coin , commonly known as a penny , is a unit of currency equaling one one-hundredth  of   a  United States dollar .
The cent 's symbol is ¢ .
Its obverse has featured the profile of President Abraham Lincoln since 1909 , the centennial of his birth .
इससे  1959 ( the  sesquicentennial  of Lincoln 's birth ) to 2008 , the reverse featured the Lincoln  मेमोरियल  .
Four different reverse  डिजाइन   in  2009 honored Lincoln 's  200th  birthday and a new , permanent reverse  –  the  संघ  Shield – was introduced in 2010 .
The coin is 0.75 inches ( 19.05 mm ) in diameter and 0.061 inches ( 1.55  mm  ) in thickness .
The U.S. Mint 's official  नाम  for a penny is `` '' and the U.S. Treasury 's official name is `` one cent piece '' .
The  colloquial  term penny derives from the British coin  of  the same name , the pre-decimal version of which had a similar value  .
In American English , pennies is the plural form , other plural forms pence and pee ( standard use  in   अंग्रेजों  English ) are not used .
As of  2012  , it costs the U.S. Mint 2.00 cents to make a cent because of the  लागत  of materials and production .
This figure includes the Mint’s fixed components for distribution and fabrication , estimated at $ 13 million  in  FY 2011 .
It  भी  includes  मिंट  overhead  आबंटित  to the penny  ,   जिससे  was  $  17.7 million for 2011 .
Fixed costs  और  overhead would have to be absorbed by other circulating  सिक्के  without the penny .
The loss in profitability due to producing the one cent coin in the  संयुक्त  States for the year of 2012 was $  58,000,000  .
This was a slight decrease from 2011 , the year before , which had a production loss of $  60,200,000  .
or more specifically , are ornamental varieties of domesticated common carp ( Cyprinus carpio )  कि  are kept for decorative purposes in outdoor koi ponds or water gardens .
Koi varieties are  विशिष्ट  by coloration , patterning , and scalation .
Some of the major colors are white  ,  black  ,  red , yellow , blue , and cream .
The most popular category of koi is the Gosanke , which is made up of the Kohaku , Taisho Sanshoku , and Showa Sanshoku varieties .
The American Federation of Government Employees ( AFGE )  is   an  American labor union representing over 650,000 employees of the federal government , about 5,000 employees of the District of Columbia , and a few hundred private sector employees  ,  mostly  in  and around federal facilities .
AFGE is the largest union for civilian , non- postal federal employees and the largest  संघ  for District of Columbia employees who report directly to the mayor  (  i.e. , outside of D.C. public schools ) .
It is affiliated with  the  AFL-CIO .
A late Silurian sporangium .
Green : A  spore  tetrad .
Blue : A spore bearing a trilete mark – the -shaped scar .
The spores are about 30-35 μm across
The evolution of plants has resulted in increasing levels of complexity , from the earliest algal mats , through bryophytes , lycopods , ferns to the complex gymnosperms  और  angiosperms of today .
While many of the groups which  appeared  earlier continue to thrive , especially in  the  environments in which they evolved , for a time each new grade of organisation became more `` successful '' than its predecessors .
In the Ordovician period , around , the first land plants appeared .
These began to diversify in the late Silurian Period , around , and the  परिणाम  of  उनके  diversification are displayed in remarkable detail in an early Devonian fossil assemblage from the  rhynie  chert .
This chert preserved early plants in cellular detail , petrified in volcanic  स्रोतों  .
By the middle of the Devonian Period , most of the features recognised in plants today are present , including roots , leaves and secondary wood ; and  ,  by late Devonian times , seeds had evolved .
Late Devonian plants  था  thereby reached a degree of sophistication that allowed them  to  form forests of tall trees .
Evolutionary innovation continued into the Carboniferous period and is still ongoing today  .
Most plant groups were relatively unscathed by the Permo-Triassic  extinction  event , although the structures of communities  बदला  .
This may have  नियत   the  scene for the appearance of the flowering plants in the Triassic ( ~ ) , and their later diversification in the Cretaceous and  paleogene  .
The latest  प्रमुख   समूह  of plants to evolve were the grasses , which became important in the mid-Paleogene  ,  from around .
The grasses  ,   as  well as many other groups , evolved new mechanisms of metabolism to survive  the   कम  and warm , dry conditions of the tropics over the last .
The winning Super Bowl team receives the Vince Lombardi Trophy .
The Super Bowl is an  सालाना  American football game that determines the champion of the National  फ़ुटबॉल  League (  एनएफएल  ) .
The contest is held in an American city that is chosen three to four years beforehand , usually in warm-weather or domed sites .
Since 1971 , the winner of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) Championship Game has faced the winner of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) Championship Game in the culmination of the NFL playoffs .
Before the 1970 merger  between  the American Football League ( AFL ) and the National Football League ( NFL ) , the two leagues met in four such contests .
The first two  यहूद  known as the `` AFL-NFL World Championship Game . ''
Super  कटोरी  III in 1969 was  the  first such game that carried the `` Super Bowl '' moniker , the names `` Super Bowl  i   ``  and `` Super Bowl II `` were retroactively applied to the first two games .
The NFC /NFL leads in Super Bowl wins with 25 , while the AFC /AFL has won 22 .
अठारह  different franchises ,  सहित  teams that relocated to another city , have won the Super  कटोरी  .
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the most Super Bowls with six championships ( record  6–2  ) , while both  the  Dallas Cowboys and San Francisco 49ers have five wins  प्रत्येक  ( Cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ) .
Dallas and Pittsburgh have the most  सुपर  Bowl appearances with eight , while the Buffalo Bills have the most consecutive appearances with  चार  losses in a row from 1990 to  1993  .
The  नई  England Patriots , Denver  broncos  and Minnesota Vikings have also lost a record four Super  प्याले  .
Buffalo and Minnesota  हैं  both 0–4 , Denver is 2–4 and New England is 3–4 .
The record for consecutive wins is two  और  is shared by seven franchises  :  the 1966-67 Green Bay Packers , the 1972-73  मियामी  Dolphins ,  the  1974-75 and 1978-79 Pittsburgh Steelers ( the only team to accomplish this feat twice ) , the 1988-89 San Francisco 49ers , the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys , the 1997-98 Denver Broncos , and the 2003-04  नई   इंग्लैण्ड  Patriots .
The only team with multiple Super Bowl appearances and no losses is the Baltimore Ravens , who in winning Super Bowl XLVII unseated and replaced the 49ers in that position .
Four current NFL teams have never appeared in a Super Bowl , including franchise relocations and renaming : the Cleveland Browns , Detroit Lions , Jacksonville Jaguars ,  और  Houston Texans  ,  though  दोनो  the Browns and Lions had won NFL Championship games prior to  the  creation of the Super Bowl .
Martin County is a county located in the U.S. state of Texas .
As of  the  2010 census , its population was 4,799 .
Its seat is  stanton   .
The county is named for Wylie Martin , an early settler .
Martin County is one  of  30 prohibition , or entirely dry , counties in the  राज्य   of   टेक्सास  .
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP , ALKP  )  ( ) is a hydrolase enzyme responsible for removing phosphate groups from many types  of  molecules ,  सहित  nucleotides  ,  proteins , and alkaloids .
The  प्रक्रम  of  निकालना  the phosphate group is called dephosphorylation .
As the name suggests , alkaline phosphatases are most effective in an alkaline environment .
It is sometimes used synonymously as basic phosphatase .
Triticale  (  ×  triticosecale   )  , ( ) is  a  hybrid of  गेहूं  ( Triticum ) and rye ( Secale ) first bred in laboratories during the late 19th century .
The grain was originally bred in  स्कॉटलैंड  and Sweden .
Commercially  उपलब्धियाँ  triticale is  लगभग  always a second generation hybrid , i.e. , a cross  between  two kinds  of  primary ( first cross ) triticales .
as  a rule , triticale combines the yield potential and grain quality of  गेहूं  with the disease and environmental tolerance ( including  मृदा  conditions ) of rye .
Only  recently  has it been  विकसित  into a commercially viable crop .
Depending on the cultivar , triticale can more or less resemble  either   of  its parents .
It is grown mostly for forage or fodder , although some triticale-based foods  can  be purchased at health food stores or are to be found in some breakfast cereals  .
When crossing wheat and rye , wheat is used as the  मादा  parent and rye as the male parent ( pollen donor )  .
The resulting hybrid is  बंध्य  , and must be treated  साथ  colchicine to induce polyploidy and thus the ability to reproduce itself .
The primary producers of  triticale  are Poland , Germany , France , Belarus and  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
In 2009 ,  according   to  the Food and Agriculture  संगठन  ( FAO ) , 15.0 million tons were harvested in 29 countries across the world .
The triticale  संकरण  are all amphidiploid , which means the plant is diploid for two genomes derived from different species .
In other words , triticale is an  allotetraploid  .
In earlier years , most work was done on  octoploid  triticale .
Different ploidy levels have been created and evaluated  over  time .
The tetraploids showed  छोटी  promise , but hexaploid triticale was successful enough to find commercial application .
The  cimmyt  triticale improvement program wanted to improve food production and nutrition  in  developing countries .
Triticale has potential in the production of bread and other food products , such as cookies , pasta , pizza dough and breakfast cereals .
the  protein  सामग्री  is higher than that of wheat , although  the  glutenin fraction is less .
The grain has also been stated to have  उच्चतर  levels of lysine than  गेहूं  .
Assuming increased acceptance , the milling industry will have to adapt to triticale , as the milling techniques employed for wheat are unsuited to triticale .
Sell  et  al . found triticale could be used as a feed grain , and later research found its starch was particularly readily digested .
as   a  feed grain ,  triticale  is already well established and of high economic importance .
it  has received attention as a potential energy crop , and research is currently being conducted on the use of  the  crop 's  बायोमास  in bioethanol production .
`` Puff , the  जादू  Dragon '' is a song written by Leonard Lipton and Peter Yarrow , and made popular by Yarrow 's group Peter , Paul and Mary in  a  1963 recording .
The song achieved great popularity .
A college football  नेशनल  championship in  the  highest level of  कॉलेजिएट  play  in  the United States , currently the National Collegiate Athletic  संघ   (  NCAA )  प्रभाग  I Football Bowl Subdivision (  fbs  ) , is a designation awarded annually by various third-party  संगठन  to their selection (  s  )  of  the best college football team ( s ) .
Division  i  FBS ( formerly Division I-A ) football is the only  ncaa  sport in which a yearly champion is not determined by an NCAA sanctioned championship event .
Because the championship team is not determined by a NCAA championship or tournament event , it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical national championship `` .
Since the NCAA , the sport 's  शासी  body , does not determine or declare a  नेशनल  champion in this field  ,  determination of such has often engendered controversy .
A championship team is independently declared by  विभिन्न  individuals and organizations ,  प्रायः  referred to as `` selectors ''  .
ये  choices  हैं  sometimes at odds with each other .
While the NCAA has never officially endorsed  an  annual championship team , it has documented the  चुनाव  of several selectors in the official NCAA Football  कटोरी  Subdivision Records .
In  जोड   ,  various third party analysts have independently  प्रकाशित  their own lists of what they have determined to  be  the most legitimate selections for each season .
These are also often at  हालात  with each other as  खूब  as individual school 's claims  on  national championships , which , for any particular season , may  or  may not correlate to the selections published elsewhere .
Currently ,  दो  widely recognized national champions selectors are the Associated Press , which conducts a  पोल  of football sportswriters ,  और  the USA Today Coaches ' Poll  ,  a poll of  अमरीकी  Football Coaches Association active coaches that is contractually obligated to  नाम  the winner  of  the Bowl Championship Series championship game as its national champion .
The Milwaukee Brewers are a professional baseball  टोली  based in Milwaukee ,  विस्कॉन्सिन  .
The team is a member of the  सेंट्रल  Division of Major League Baseball 's National League and plays its home games at Miller Park .
The team is so named because of the city 's association with the brewing industry .
The Washington Nationals are a professional baseball team based in Washington , D.C .
the  Nationals are a member of the East Division of the National League of Major League Baseball ( MLB )  .
The team 's home ballpark is Nationals Park  ,  located on South Capitol Street  in  Southeast D.C. , near the Anacostia River .
The park opened  in  2008 , replacing RFK Stadium , the team 's home from 2005  to  2007 .
The Nationals ' name derives  इससे  the former Washington baseball team that had  the  same name ( used interchangeably with Senators  )  .
Their nickname is `` the Nats  ''  —a shortened  संस्करण   कि  was also used by  the  old D.C.  टीमों  .
an  expansion franchise  ,  the club was founded in  as  the Montreal Expos , the first major league team in Canada .
They were  आधारित  in Montreal , Quebec ,  और  played their home games at Jarry Park Stadium and later in Olympic Stadium  .
In , the Expos won  a  division championship , won their first-ever playoff series by defeating the Philadelphia Phillies , 3–2 , and  उन्नत  to the  नेशनल  League Championship Series ,  जहाँ  they would go on  to  lose to the Los Angeles Dodgers , 3–2 , in their only postseason  रूप  during the strike-shortened season .
The  expos  had their highest winning percentage in the strike-shortened season of , when the  टोली   था  the best record in baseball .
The team 's  subsequent   shedding  of players caused fan  ब्याज  to drop off .
After the 2001 season , MLB considered revoking the team 's franchise , along with either the Minnesota Twins or the Tampa Bay Devil Rays  .
After being purchased by MLB  in   2002  , the team was moved before the season to Washington and renamed  the  Nationals , the first relocation since the second Washington Senators  स्थानांतरित  to Arlington , Texas ,  और   became  the Texas  रेंजरों  in .
The Nationals are one  of  two MLB franchises , and the only one in the  नेशनल  League , that has never played in a World Series ( the Seattle Mariners are the other ) .
A contingent fee ( in the  संयुक्त  States ) or conditional fee ( in England and Wales ) is any fee for services provided where the fee is payable only if there is a favourable result .
In the  विधि  , it  is  defined as a `` fee charged for a lawyer 's services only if  the  lawsuit is successful or  is  favorably settled out of court ... .
निर्भर  fees are usually calculated as a percentage of  the   क्लाएंट  's net recovery .  ''
In  the  English legal system , it is generally referred to as no  जीत  no fee .
A conditional fee agreement  between  a law firm and a client .
The usual form of this agreement is that the solicitor will take a law case on the understanding that if  खोया  , no payment is made .
However , if the case is won , the lawyer  होगा  be entitled to the normal fee based on hourly billing , plus a success  शुल्क  .
The success fee in England  जरूर  be as a percentage no greater than 100 % of the normal fee .
This  contrasts  with the  आकस्मिकता  fee  in  the US , which gives the successful attorney a percentage of the damages  awarded  in favor of his client .
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue their civil rights since otherwise , to sue someone  लिये   a  tort , one must first be wealthy enough to pursue such  वाद  in the first place .
However , because of the high risk , few attorneys  होगा  take cases on a contingency basis unless they  महसूस  the case has good merit .
According to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer , contingent fees were allowed as of that year in  the  following countries : Australia , Brazil , Canada , the Dominican Republic  ,  France ,  यूनानियों  , Ireland , Japan , New Zealand , the United Kingdom and the United States .
They are also allowed in personal injury actions in Lithuania .
Recently  ,  they have  महरूम  allowed  in  Belgium as  खूब  .
A Convocation ( Latin 'calling together ' , translating the Greek ecclesia ) is a group of  लोगों  formally assembled for  a  special  purpose  .
Sons of Anarchy is a television drama series created by Kurt Sutter about the lives of a  close-knit  outlaw motorcycle club  ऑपरेटिंग  in Charming , a fictional town in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  's Central Valley .
The show centers on  समर्थक  Jackson `` Jax '' Teller ( Charlie Hunnam ) , the then-vice president of the club , who begins questioning  the  club and himself .
Sons of Anarchy premiered on September  3  , 2008  ,  on cable network FX .
the   तीसरा  season of  the   श्रेणी  attracted an  औसत  of 4.9 million  दर्शक  per week , making it FX  's  highest rated series ever  ,  surpassing FX 's other hits The Shield , Nip/Tuck , and Rescue Me .
On February 3 , 2012 , Sons  of  Anarchy was renewed for two additional seasons , a fifth and a sixth .
Those involved in the production of the series imply that a seventh and final season is creator Kurt Sutter 's  योजना  .
The  grímsvötn  sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn  =  `` waters '' , singular : ) and the volcano of the same name are in South-East  आइसलैंड  .
They are  in   the   हाइलैंड्स  of Iceland at the northwestern side of the Vatnajökull ice-cap .
The lakes are at , at an elevation of .
Beneath the lakes is the magma  कक्ष  of the  grímsvötn  volcano .
Grímsvötn is a  basaltic  volcano which has the  उच्चतम  eruption frequency  of  all the volcanoes  in  Iceland and has a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system .
The massive climate-impacting Laki  फिशर  eruption of 1783–1784 was a part of the same  फिशर  system .
Grímsvötn was erupting at the same time as Laki during 1783  ,  but continued to erupt until 1785 .
Because most of the  ज्वालामुखी  lies underneath Vatnajökull , most of its eruptions have been subglacial and the interaction of magma and meltwater from  the  ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity .
On 21  may  2011 at 19:25 UTC , an eruption  began  , with high plumes accompanied by multiple earthquakes  ,  resulting in cancellation of 900 flights in Iceland , and in the United Kingdom ,  ग्रीनलैंड  , Germany , Ireland and Norway on  22–25  May .
Until 25  may  the eruption scale had been larger than that of the 2010 eruption of Eyjafjallajökull .
The  फटना  stopped  at  02:40 UTC  on  25 May  2011   ,  although there was some explosive activity from the tephra vents affecting only the  क्षेत्रफल  around the crater .
Vetting  is  the process of performing a background check on someone  पहले  offering them employment , conferring an award , etc .
A  prospective  person or project may be vetted before  बनाना  a hiring decision .
In addition , in intelligence gathering , assets are vetted to determine their usefulness .
Former headquarters and current corporate offices
Caesars  entertainment  Corporation ( formerly Harrah 's Entertainment from 1995 to 2010  )   is   an  American  पब्लिक  gaming  निगम  that owns and operates over 50 casinos , hotels  ,   और  seven golf courses  अंतर्गत  several brands .
The company ,  आधारित  in Paradise , Nevada  ,  is the largest gaming company in the world ,  साथ  annual revenues of  $  8.9 billion ( 2010  )  .
caesars  is  a  public company , with a joint venture of Apollo Global Management  और   टेक्सास  Pacific Group ownig a large portion of the stack and Blackstone Group also holding a significant stake .
the  name  बदलें  from `` Harrah 's Entertainment Inc.  ''   to  `` Caesars Entertainment Corporation '' was made official  on  November 23 , 2010 .
Harrah  's  remains a key brand in the  कम्पनी  .
On November 5 , 2010 , Harrah 's announced an initial public offering of 31,250,000 shares but retracted this offering  on  November 19  .
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a person who  is   नहीं  a  कनाडाई   नागरिक  but who has been granted permission to live and work in Canada without any time limit on his or her stay .
A permanent resident must  सजीव   in   कनाडा  for two years  आउट  of every five or risk losing that status .
A Permanent Resident holds many of the same rights  और   जिम्मेदारियों  as a Canadian citizen  ,  among others the right to work for any  एंटरप्राइज़  as well  as  for  the  federal or provincial government ( under restriction of access rights to certain regulated  व्यवसायों  ) .
The  प्रमुख  differences are that residents can not :
vote  in elections in Canada ;
run  लिये  elected office ;
hold Canadian passports ;
In addition , they may be allowed to join  कनाडा  's armed forces if the national interest  होता  not be prejudiced .
Permanent residents also risk deportation for serious crimes committed while resident in Canada .
Permanent residents may apply for Canadian citizenship after three years in Canada ; however this is not  अनिवार्य  .
Erica Kane is a  fictional  character from the American ABC Daytime soap opera All My Children  .
The character was portrayed by actress Susan Lucci  इससे  her  डेब्यू  on January 16 , 1970 until the last broadcast television episode aired on September 23 , 2011 .
On February 11 , 2013  ,  it was  घोषित  that Lucci will guest-star on the Prospect Park 's continuation of All My Children .
in   the  U.S. , Erica is  माना  to be the most popular  अक्षर  in  साबुन  opera history .
Regarding the North-American  मार्केट  , TV Guide calls her `` unequivocally the most famous soap opera  अक्षर  in the history of daytime TV '' , and included her in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest  खलनायक  of All Time .
A graph of the US CPI from 1913 to 2006 ( in blue ) , and its percent annual change ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI )  उपायों  changes in the price level  of  a market basket of consumer goods  और  services purchased by households .
The CPI in the  संयुक्त  States is defined by the Bureau of  मजदूर  Statistics as `` a  माप  of the average change over time in the prices paid  by  urban consumers for  a  market basket of  उपभोक्ता  goods and services . ''
The  cpi  is a statistical estimate constructed using the prices of a sample of representative items whose prices are collected periodically .
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for different categories and sub-categories  of  goods and services , being combined to produce the overall index with weights reflecting their  साझा  in the total of the consumer expenditures covered by the  अनुक्रमणिका  .
It is one of several price indices calculated  by  most national statistical agencies .
The annual percentage  बदलें  in  a  CPI is used as a  माप   of  inflation .
A CPI can be  प्रयुक्त  to index ( i.e. ,  समायोजन  for the effect of inflation ) the real value of wages , salaries , pensions , for regulating prices and for deflating monetary magnitudes to show changes in real values .
In most countries , the CPI is , along with the population census and the USA National Income and Product  खाते  , one of the most closely watched national economic statistics .
Knocking on wood , or to  टच  wood ,  refers  to the apotropaic tradition in western folklore of literally touching/knocking on wood ,  or  merely stating that  तुम  are  doing  or intend same , in order to avoid `` tempting fate `` after making a favourable observation , a boast , or declaration concerning one 's  अपना  death  .
Rocker arm
Generally referred to within the context of the internal combustion engine of  ऑटोमोटिव  ,  समुद्री  , motorcycle and reciprocating aviation engines ,  the  rocker arm is an oscillating lever that conveys radial movement  इससे  the cam lobe into linear movement at the poppet valve to open it .
One end is raised and lowered by a rotating lobe of  the  camshaft ( either directly or via a tappet  (  lifter ) and pushrod ) while the other end acts on the  वाल्व   स्टेम  .
When the camshaft lobe  उठाता  the outside of the  भुजा  ,  the  inside presses down on the valve stem , opening the valve .
When the outside of the arm is  permitted  to return due to the camshafts rotation , the inside rises , allowing the valve spring to close the valve .
The drive  कैम  is driven by the camshaft .
This pushes the rocker arm up and down about the trunnion pin or rocker shaft  .
Friction may be reduced at the point of contact with the valve  स्टेम  by a roller cam follower  .
A similar arrangement transfers the motion via another roller cam follower to  a  second rocker arm .
This rotates about the rocker shaft , and  हस्तांतरण  the  गति  via a  tappet  to the poppet valve .
In this case this opens the intake valve to the cylinder head .
The effective  leverage  of the arm ( and thus the force it can exert on the valve stem ) is determined by the rocker arm  अनुपात  , the ratio of the distance from the rocker arm 's center  of  rotation to the tip divided by the distance from  the  center of rotation  to  the point acted on by the camshaft or  pushrod  .
Current automotive design favors rocker arm ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1 .
however  ,  in   the  past smaller positive ratios ( the valve lift is greater than the cam lift ) and even negative ratios ( valve lift smaller than the cam lift )  have  been used .
Many  pre-ww2   इंजन  use  1:1  ( neutral )  ratios  .
For car engines the rocker arms are generally steel stampings , providing a reasonable balance of strength  ,  weight  और  economical cost  .
Because the rocker arms are , in part ,  प्रत्यागमनी  weight , excessive mass especially at the lever ends limits the engine 's ability to reach  ऊँची  operating speeds .
``   the  Night  the  Lights Went Out in Georgia '' is a Southern Gothic song written by songwriter Bobby Russell and performed in 1972 by his then-wife  vicki  Lawrence  .
Reba McEntire later covered it in 1991 .
Recorded in late October 1972 in United/Western  studios  on Sunset in Hollywood and released less than two weeks later in November 1972 , the song centers around the older brother of the narrator , falsely convicted of and  चलाया  for a murder  ,  which the narrator herself has committed  .
In postal mail , a return address is an explicit inclusion of the address of the person sending the message .
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries )  साथ  a means to determine how to respond to the sender of the message if needed .
The return address  need  not include a sender 's name , but should  शामिल  address or P.O . box details in  the  same way as the delivery  पता  should .
In some countries , the return address is  conventionally  located in the  अपर  left  हाथ  corner of the  लिफाफा  , card , or label .
In the United Kingdom , the return address is usually placed on the reverse of  the  envelope ,  निकट  the top .
Businesses often use envelopes preprinted  साथ  a return address .
Many individuals have sheets  of  adhesive labels preprinted with their home address to affix to their correspondence .
Charities sometimes include  ऐसे  sheets in mailshots .
Rolls of Return Address Labels can  be  purchased from companies that sell personalized labels to provide individuals  an  easy way to peel and  स्टिक  return address labels to their envelopes  .
The return address is  नहीं  required on postal mail .
However , lack of a return address prevents the postal service from being able to return the item if it proves undeliverable ; such as  इससे  damage , postage due , or invalid destination .
Such mail may thus become dead letter mail .
Should the return  पता  be of a different state or country , the mail may be routed through that location for ease  of   वापसी  .
A nerve guidance conduit ( also referred to as an artificial nerve conduit or  कृत्रिम  nerve graft , as opposed to an autograft ) is an artificial means of guiding  axonal  regrowth to facilitate nerve regeneration and is one  of  several clinical treatments for nerve injuries .
When direct suturing of the two stumps of a severed nerve can not be accomplished without tension , the standard clinical treatment for peripheral nerve injuries is  autologous  nerve grafting .
Due  to  the limited availability of donor tissue and functional recovery in autologous nerve  कलम  , neural tissue engineering research has focused on the development of bioartificial nerve  मार्गदर्शन  conduits as an alternative treatment , especially for large defects .
Similar techniques are also being  छान  for nerve repair  in  the spinal cord but nerve regeneration in the central nervous system  मुद्राएँ  a greater  चुनौती  because its axons do not regenerate appreciably in their  देशी  environment .
The creation of  कृत्रिम  conduits is also known as entubulation because the nerve  ends  and intervening gap are enclosed within a tube composed of biological  or  synthetic  सामग्री  .
Whether the conduit is in the form of  a  biologic tube ,  सिंथेटिक  tube or tissue-engineered  conduit  , it should facilitate  neurotropic  and neurotrophic communication between the proximal and distal ends of the nerve gap , block external inhibitory factors , and provide a physical guidance for  axonal  regrowth .
The most  मौलिक   उद्देश्य  of a nerve guidance conduit  is  to combine physical  ,  chemical  ,  and biological cues under conditions that will foster tissue formation .
Materials that  have  been used  to  make biologic tubes include blood vessels and  skeletal  muscles , while nonabsorbable and bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have  महरूम  made from silicone and polyglycolide respectively .
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits are a combination of many  तत्व  : scaffold structure ,  scaffold  material  ,  cellular therapies , neurotrophic factors and biomimetic materials .
The choice of which physical , chemical and biological cues to use is based on the properties of the nerve environment , which is critical in creating the most desirable environment for axon regeneration  .
The factors that control  सामग्री  selection include  biocompatibility  , biodegradability , mechanical integrity , controllability during nerve growth , implantation and sterilization .
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality television series  उत्पादित  by RDF USA (  बाद  Zodiak USA ) and Richard Dominick Productions for truTV about the  day-to-day  operations of American Jewelry and Loan , a family-owned pawn shop located at 20450 Greenfield Road ,  between  8 Mile Road and the John C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit , Michigan .
The series premiered on August 16 , 2010 , delivering two million viewers , setting a record as truTV 's most-watched series premiere ever .
Amoxicillin  bp
Amoxicillin ( INN ) , formerly amoxycillin ( BAN )  ,  and abbreviated  amox  ,  is  a  moderate-spectrum  , bacteriolytic  ,  β-lactam antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms .
It is usually the drug of choice within the class because it is  बेहतर  absorbed , following oral administration , than other β-lactam antibiotics .
Amoxicillin is one of the most common antibiotics prescribed for children .
The drug became available in 1972 .
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing bacteria , which  हैं  resistant to a broad spectrum of β-lactam antibiotics , such as penicillin .
For this reason , it is often combined with clavulanic acid , a β-lactamase inhibitor .
This increases  प्रभावकारिता  by reducing its susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance .
Lyndon  baines  Johnson ( August 27 , 1908 – January 22 , 1973 ) , often referred to as  lbj  , was the 36th President of the United States ( 1963–1969 ) , a position  he  assumed after his service  as  the 37th  वाइस  President of the United  राज्य  ( 1961–1963 ) .
He is  एक  of only four people who served  in  all  चार   निर्वाचित   संघीय  offices of the United States : Representative ,  सीनेटर  , Vice President , and President .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas , served as a  संयुक्त  States  प्रतिनिधि  from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961 , including six years  as  United States Senate Majority Leader , two as Senate Minority Leader and two as  सीनेट  Majority Whip .
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the  लोकतांत्रिक  nomination in 1960 , Johnson was asked  by  John F. Kennedy to be  उसके  running mate for the 1960 presidential election .
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of  जॉन  F. Kennedy on  नवम्बर  22 , 1963 , completed Kennedy 's term and was elected President  in  his own right ,  जीतना  by a large margin over  बैरी  Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party  और  as President , he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that  शामिल  laws  कि  upheld civil rights , public broadcasting , Medicare , Medicaid , environmental protection , aid  to  education , and his `` War on Poverty . ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and  the  `` Johnson  उपचार  , '' his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation  .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War , from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in early 1968 , as American  हताहत  soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar movement based especially on university campuses in the U.S. and abroad .
Summer riots  broke  out  in  most major  शहरों   बाद   1965  , and crime rates soared  ,  as his opponents raised demands for `` law and  अनुक्रम  '' policies  .
The Democratic Party split in multiple  feuding  factions , and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary , he  ended  his bid for reelection .
Republican Richard Nixon was elected to  सफल  him .
Historians argue that  जॉनसन  's presidency marked the peak  of  modern liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era  .
Johnson is ranked favorably by some historians because of his domestic  नीतियों  .
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con 2009 , from left : Kunal Nayyar , Simon  helberg  ,  kaley  Cuoco , Jim Parsons , and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory , created  और  executive produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady ,  premiered  on CBS on September  24  , 2007 .
The show centers  on  five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and  लियोनार्ड  Hofstadter , two  caltech  physicists ; Penny , a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across  the  hall  ;  and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz , and  astrophysicist  Rajesh Koothrappali .
Over time , several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie  winkle  ( season 1  पुनरावर्ती  ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ) , a physicist colleague , and , at different times , a lover  of  both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) ,  a  microbiologist , Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife , and former part-time  वेट्रेस  alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest  ;  season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , who  joins  the group  बाद  being matched to Sheldon  on  a dating website ; and  कॉमिक  book store-owner , Stuart  खिलते  ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present  नियमित  )  ,  who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is  in  space .
the  show also features numerous supporting characters , each of whom plays  a  prominent role in a small group of episodes .
The  अमरीकी  Civil War ( ACW )  ,  also known as the War between  the  States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the  संयुक्त   राज्य  ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States  of  America ( the `` Confederacy '' or  the  `` South '' ) .
The war  था  its origin in the issue of slavery , especially the extension of slavery into the western territories .
विदेशी  powers did not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and  नष्ट  much of  the   दक्षिण  's infrastructure , the  confederacy  collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election ,  republicans  , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery  into  United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James  बुकानन  and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject calls for  secession  .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise , and both  पहलू  prepared for war .
the  Confederates assumed that European countries  यहूद  so  निर्भर  on `` King Cotton  ``   कि  they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter  ,  a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ;  नतीजतन  ,  चार  more  स्लेव  states joined the  confederacy  , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and  स्थापित  a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy  .
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in  1861–62  .
The autumn  1862  Confederate campaign  into  Maryland  (  a Union state )  ended  with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
lincoln   जारी  the Emancipation Proclamation , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the  वेस्ट  , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then  much  of their western armies  ,  and the Union  at  Vicksburg split  the  Confederacy in  दो  at the  मिसिसिपी  River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
पश्चिमी  successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way  .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions ,  और  could afford to fight battles of attrition through the  overland  Campaign towards  रिचमंड  , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate  फौज  failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court  हाउस  on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil  युद्ध  was one of the earliest true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph  ,  steamships , and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively  .
The mobilization of civilian factories ,  खानों  , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all  foreshadowed  World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American  इतिहास  , resulting in the deaths  of  an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number  of  civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of  सब  Northern males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
इंसान  evolution  refers  to the evolutionary process leading up to  the  appearance of modern humans .
While it began with the last common ancestor of all life , the topic usually covers only the evolutionary history of primates , in particular the genus Homo ,  और  the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct species of hominids ( or ``  ग्रेट  apes '' ) .
The study of human evolution  involves   अनेक  scientific disciplines , including physical  मानवशास्त्र  , primatology , archaeology , linguistics ,  विकासवादी  psychology , embryology  और  genetics .
According to genetic studies , primates diverged from other mammals about in the Late Cretaceous period , and the earliest fossils appear in the Paleocene , around .
The family  मानवनुमा  diverged from the Hylobatidae ( Gibbon  )   परिवार   15-20   लाख   सालो  ago  ,  and around , the Ponginae ( orangutans ) , diverged from the Hominidae family .
Bipedalism is the basic adaption of the Hominin line , and the earliest bipedal Hominin is considered to be either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin , with Ardipithecus ,  a  full bipedal , coming somewhat later  .
The gorilla and chimpanzee diverged  around  the same time , about 4-6 million years ago , and either Sahelanthropus or  orrorin  may be our last shared ancestor with them .
the  early bipedals eventually evolved into the australopithecines and later the genus Homo  .
The earliest documented members of the genus Homo  हैं  Homo habilis which evolved around ;  the  earliest species for which there  is  positive evidence of use of stone  टूल्स  .
The brains  of  these early hominins were about the same size as that of a chimpanzee .
During the next  लाख  years a process of encephalization began , and with the arrival of Homo erectus in  the  fossil record , cranial capacity had doubled to 850 cm3 .
Homo erectus  और  Homo ergaster were the first of the hominina to  छोड़  Africa , and these species  स्प्रेड  through Africa , Asia  ,  and  यूरोपीय  between .
it  is believed that these species were the first to use fire and complex tools .
According to the Recent African Ancestry theory , modern humans evolved in Africa possibly from  होमो   heidelbergensis  , Homo rhodesiensis or Homo  antecessor  and migrated out of the continent some 50,000 to 100,000 years ago , replacing local populations of Homo erectus , Homo denisova , Homo floresiensis and Homo neanderthalensis .
Archaic Homo sapiens , the forerunner of  anatomically  modern humans , evolved  between  400,000 and 250,000 years ago .
Recent DNA evidence suggests that  अनेक  haplotypes of Neanderthal origin are present among all non-African populations , and Neanderthals and other hominids , such as  denisova  hominin may have contributed  up  to 6 %  of  their genome to present-day humans. <  संदर्भ  name= ''  10.1126/science.1209202  ''  >  Anatomically modern humans evolved from  archaic  Homo sapiens  in  the Middle Paleolithic  ,   परिचय  200,000 years ago .
The transition to behavioral modernity with  the  development of symbolic culture , language , and specialized lithic technology happened around 50,000  सालो  ago according to many anthropologists although some suggest a gradual change in behavior over a longer time  स्पैन  .
लिसा  Cuddy , M.D  .  , is a fictional character on the  फॉक्स  network medical drama House .
She is portrayed by Lisa Edelstein .
Cuddy was the Dean of Medicine and hospital administrator of  the  fictional Princeton-Plainsboro  शिक्षण  Hospital in New Jersey .
She also becomes House 's love interest through the years to start a relationship with  उसे  in season seven .
Cuddy quit her job after  the  events of season seven 's finale ``  चलती  On `` .
Track and field is a sport comprising various competitive athletic contests  आधारित  on running , jumping  ,   और  throwing .
The name of  the  sport derives from the competition venue : a stadium with an oval  कार्यशील  track  around  a grass field .
the  throwing and jumping events generally take place in the central enclosed area .
Track and field falls under the umbrella sport of athletics , which also includes road running ,  क्रॉस  country running ,  और  race walking  .
The two most prestigious  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  track and field competitions are held under the  ध्वज  of athletics : the athletics competition at  the   ओलम्पिक  Games and the IAAF World Championships in Athletics .
The International  संघ  of Athletics Federations  is  the international governing body for track and field .
Track and field events are generally individual sports with athletes challenging each other to decide a single victor .
The racing events are won  by   the  athlete with the fastest time , while the jumping and throwing events are won by the athlete who has achieved the greatest  अलहदा  or height in the contest .
The running events are categorised as  sprints  , middle and long-distance events , relays ,  और  hurdling .
Regular jumping events include long jump , triple jump , high jump and pole vault , while the most common throwing events are shot put , javelin , discus and hammer .
There are also `` combined events '' , such as heptathlon and decathlon , in which athletes compete  in  a number of the above  कार्यक्रम  .
Records  हैं  kept of the best performances in specific events , at world and national levels ,  सही   bas  to a personal level .
However , if athletes are deemed to have  violated  the event 's rules or regulations , they are disqualified from the competition and their marks are erased .
In North America , the term track and field may be used to refer to  एथलेटिक्स   in  general ,  बल्कि  than specifically track and field events  .
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February  1991  ) , codenamed  आपरेशन  Desert Storm ( 17 January 1991 – 28 February 1991 ) was  a  war  waged  by a U.N.-authorized Coalition  फ़ोर्स  from 34 nations  led  by  the  United States , against Iraq in response to Iraq 's invasion and annexation of Kuwait .
The war is also known under other names , such as the Persian Gulf War , First Gulf War , Gulf War I , or the First Iraq War  ,   पहले   the  term ``  इराकी  War ''  became  identified instead with the 2003 Iraq  युद्ध  ( also referred to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ) .
Kuwait 's invasion by Iraqi troops that began  2  August 1990 was met with international condemnation , and brought immediate economic sanctions  विरूद्ध  Iraq by members  of   the  U.N. Security Council .
U.S. President George H. W. Bush deployed U.S. forces into Saudi Arabia , and urged other countries to send their own forces to  the  scene  .
An array of nations joined the Coalition .
The great majority of the Coalition 's military  शक्तियां  were from  the  U.S. , with Saudi Arabia , the United  किंगडम  and  मिश्र  as  अग्रणी  contributors ,  in  that order .
Saudi Arabia paid around US $ 36 billion of  the  US  $  60 billion  लागत  .
The war was marked by the beginning of live news on the front lines of the fight , with the primacy of the  u.S.  network CNN .
The war has also earned  the  nickname Video  खेल  War after the daily  ब्रॉडकास्ट  images on board the U.S. bombers during Operation Desert Storm .
The initial conflict to expel Iraqi troops from Kuwait began with an aerial bombardment on 17 January 1991 .
This was followed by a ground  उत्पीड़न  on  24  February .
This  थी  a  निर्णायक  victory for the Coalition forces ,  जो  liberated Kuwait and advanced into Iraqi territory .
The Coalition ceased their advance , and declared a cease-fire 100 hours after  the  ground campaign started .
Aerial and ground combat was confined to Iraq  ,   कुवैत  , and areas on  सऊदी  Arabia 's border .
Iraq launched Scud missiles against  गठबन्धन  military targets in Saudi Arabia  और  against Israel .
The nickel , in  अमरीकी  usage , is a five- cent coin issued by the United States Mint .
Composed of 75 % copper and 25 %  निकल  , the piece  रै  been struck since  1866  .
The silver  हाफ  dime , equal to five cents , had been issued since the  1790s  .
The American  सिविल  War  caused  economic  hardship  , driving  सुनहरा  and silver from circulation ; in response , in place of  low-value  coins , the  सरकारी  at first  जारी  paper currency .
In 1865  ,  Congress abolished the five-cent fractional currency  नोट  after Spencer M. Clark ,  सिर  of  the  Currency  ब्यूरो  ( today the Bureau of Engraving and Printing ) , placed  उसके  own portrait on the denomination .
After successful introduction of two-cent and three-cent pieces , without precious metal , Congress  भी  authorized a five-cent piece consisting of base metal ; the Mint began striking this  संस्करण   in  1866 .
The initial design of the Shield nickel was struck until 1883 , then replaced by the Liberty Head nickel .
The Buffalo nickel  थी  introduced in 1913 as part of a drive to increase the beauty of American coinage ; in  1938   ,  the Jefferson  निकल  followed  .
In 2004 and 2005 , special designs in honor of the bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark Expedition were issued .
In 2006 , the Mint reverted to using Jefferson nickel designer Felix Schlag 's  असली  reverse ( or `` tails '' side  )  , although a new obverse , by Jamie Franki , was substituted .
As of 2013 ,  it  costs more than eleven cents to produce a  निकल  ; the  मिंट  is exploring the possibility  of  reducing cost by using less expensive metals .
a  poster with  पुष्प  or clusters of flowers produced by twelve species of flowering plants from different families
A flower ,  sometimes  known as a bloom  or  blossom ,  is  the reproductive structure found in flowering plants ( plants of the division Magnoliophyta , also called angiosperms  )  .
The biological function of a flower is to effect reproduction  ,  usually by providing a mechanism for the union of sperm with eggs .
Flowers may facilitate outcrossing ( fusion of  शुक्राणु  and eggs from different individuals in a population ) or allow  selfing  ( fusion of sperm and egg from the same flower ) .
Some flowers produce diaspores without fertilization ( parthenocarpy  )  .
Flowers contain sporangia and are the site where gametophytes develop .
पुष्प  give rise to fruit  और  seeds .
Many flowers have evolved to be attractive to animals , so  as  to cause them to  be  vectors for  the  transfer of pollen .
In addition to facilitating  the  reproduction  of  flowering plants , flowers have long been admired and used by  इंसानो  to beautify  उनके   पर्यावरण  , and also as objects of romance , ritual , religion , medicine and as a  सोर्स  of food .
The McDonnell Douglas ( now Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine , all-weather tactical fighter designed by McDonnell Douglas to gain and maintain air superiority in aerial combat .
It  is   माना  among the most successful modern fighters , with over 100 aerial combat victories with  no  losses in dogfights .
Following reviews of proposals  ,  the United States Air Force selected McDonnell Douglas '  डिज़ाइन  in 1967 to meet the  सेवा  's need for a  समर्पित  air superiority fighter .
The Eagle first flew in July 1972 , and entered service in 1976 .
Since the  1970s  , the Eagle has been exported to Israel , Japan , Saudi  अरब  , and other nations .
The F-15  थी  originally envisioned as a pure air  बड़प्पन  aircraft .
Its  डिज़ाइन  included  a  secondary ground-attack capability that  थी  largely unused .
The design proved flexible enough that an  all-weather  strike derivative , the F-15E Strike Eagle , was later developed , and entered service in 1989 .
The F-15 Eagle  is  expected to be in service with  the  U.S. Air  फ़ोर्स  past  2025  .
Mimio is a brand name of a line of technology products aimed at the education market .
The primary  उत्पाद  are  केन्द्रित  around computer whiteboard interactive  शिक्षण  devices .
mimiocapture  devices also  allow  users to  कैप्चर   सब  of the ink strokes that are written on the whiteboard .
When used in conjunction with a video projector it turns the  ordinary  whiteboard surface  into   a  fully interactive whiteboard .
The  उत्पाद  line was originally designed by  आभासी  Ink .
On October 4 , 2006 Newell Rubbermaid acquired the Mimio interactive whiteboard ( iWB ) product line  .
Rahab of Jericho
Rahab , ( ; ;  )  was ,  according  to the  किताब  of Joshua , a woman who lived in Jericho in the  promised  Land  और  assisted the Israelites in capturing the city .
Nearly all English translations of Joshua describe her as a harlot or prostitute .
The Organization of American States  (  Spanish : Organización de los  estados  Americanos , Portuguese :  organização  dos Estados Americanos , French :  संगठन  des États américains ) , or the OAS , is a regional international organization .
The OAS was founded on 30 April 1948 , and has its headquarters in Washington , D.C. , United States .
Its members  हैं  the 35 independent states of the Americas .
Since 26  may  2005 , the Secretary General of OAS has been José  मिगुएल  Insulza .
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo  कोलोन  ; Spanish : Cristóbal Colón ; Portuguese : Cristóvão Colombo ; before  31  October 145120 May 1506  )  was an Italian explorer , navigator , and colonizer , born in the Republic of Genoa , in what is today northwestern Italy .
Under the auspices of the Catholic  monarchs   of  Spain , he completed four voyages across the Atlantic Ocean that led to general  यूरोपीय  awareness of the American continents .
Those voyages , and his efforts to establish permanent settlements on the island of Hispaniola , initiated the  स्पेनी  colonization of the New World .
In the context of emerging  पश्चिमी  imperialism  और   आर्थिक  competition between European kingdoms seeking wealth through the establishment of trade routes and colonies ,  कोलंबस   's  speculative proposal , to reach the East Indies  by  sailing westward ,  आखिरकार  received the support of the Spanish crown , which saw in it a promise , however remote , of gaining the upper hand  over  rival powers in the contest for the lucrative spice trade with Asia  .
During his first voyage in 1492 , instead of reaching Japan as he had intended , Columbus landed  in  the Bahamas archipelago  ,  at a locale he named San Salvador .
Over the course of three more voyages  ,  Columbus  visited  the Greater and Lesser Antilles , as well as the Caribbean coast of Venezuela and Central America , claiming them for the Spanish Empire .
Though Columbus was not  the  first European explorer to  पहुँचें  the Americas ( having been preceded by the  नॉर्स  expedition led by Leif Ericson  in  the 11th century ) , Columbus  's  voyages led to the first lasting European contact with the  americas  , inaugurating a period of European exploration ,  conquest  ,  और  colonization that lasted for several centuries .
They had , therefore , an enormous impact in  the  historical  विकास  of the modern Western world .
Columbus  खुद  saw his accomplishments primarily in the  लाइट  of the spreading of the Christian  धर्म  .
Never  admitting  that he had reached a continent previously unknown to Europeans , rather than the East Indies he had  नियत  out for  ,  Columbus called the inhabitants of the lands he visited  indios  (  स्पेनी  for ``  इंडियंस  `` ) .
Columbus 's  strained  relationship with the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial administrators in America led to his arrest and  dismissal  as governor of  the   settlements  on the island of Hispaniola in 1500  ,  and later to protracted litigation over the benefits which Columbus and his heirs claimed were owed  to  them  by  the crown .
Bred in Germany , the Boxer is a breed  of  stocky , medium-sized ,  short-haired  dogs .
The coat is smooth and  tight-fitting  ; colors are fawn or brindled , with or without white markings , which may cover the entire body .
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they  have  broad , short skulls ) , and have a square muzzle , mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ) , very strong jaws , and a powerful bite ideal  लिये  hanging on to large prey .
The Boxer  थी  bred from the Old English Bulldog and the now extinct Bullenbeisser , and is part of the Molosser group .
Boxers were first exhibited in a  श्वान   दिखाएँ  for St. Bernards in Munich in 1895 , the first Boxer club being founded the next  साल  .
Based on 2012 American Kennel Club statistics , Boxers held steady as the  सातवाँ  most popular breed of dog in the United States for the third  लगातार  year .
Serial ATA ( SATA  )  is a computer bus interface that connects host bus adapters to mass storage devices such as  मुश्किल  disk drives and optical drives .
Serial ATA replaces the older AT Attachment standard ( ATA ;  बाद  referred to as Parallel ATA  or  PATA ) , offering several advantages over the  पुरानी  interface : reduced cable size and cost ( seven conductors instead of 40 ) , native hot  swapping  , faster data transfer through higher signalling rates , and more efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol .
SATA host adapters and devices  communicate  via a high-speed serial cable over two pairs  of  conductors .
In contrast ,  समानांतर  ATA ( the redesignation for the legacy ATA specifications  )   प्रयुक्त  a 16-bit  चौड़ी   आंकड़ा  bus with many additional support and control signals , all  ऑपरेटिंग  at much lower frequency .
To ensure backward compatibility  साथ  legacy ATA software and applications , SATA uses the same basic ATA and ATAPI command-set as legacy  ata  devices .
SATA has replaced parallel ATA in consumer desktop and laptop computers , and has largely replaced PATA in new embedded applications  .
SATA  's  market share in the desktop PC market was 99 % in 2008 .
PATA remains widely used in industrial and embedded applications  कि   उपयोग  CompactFlash storage , even though the new CFast standard is based on SATA .
Serial  ata  industry compatibility specifications originate from The Serial ATA International Organization ( aka  .
SATA-IO , serialata.org ) .
the  SATA-IO group collaboratively creates , reviews  ,   ratifies  , and publishes the interoperability  विशेषताएँ   ,  the test cases , and plug-fests .
As with  अनेक  other industry compatibility standards ,  the  SATA content ownership is transferred to other industry bodies : primarily the INCITS T13 subcommittee ATA , the INCITS T10 subcommittee ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of T10  जिम्मेदार  for Serial Attached SCSI (  sas  ) .
The  पूरा  specification from SATA-IO .
The remainder of this article will try to use the terminology and  विशेषताएँ  of SATA-IO .
The history of the Internet began with the development of electronic computers in the 1950s .
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over  the  ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California , Los Angeles ( UCLA ) , after the second piece of network equipment was  संस्थापित  at Stanford Research  संस्थान  ( SRI ) .
Packet switched  संजाल  such as ARPANET , Mark I at NPL in  the  UK , CYCLADES , Merit Network ,  tymnet  , and Telenet , were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s  using  a variety of protocols .
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for  internetworking  , in which multiple separate networks could be joined together into a network of networks .
In  1982  , the Internet protocol suite (  tcp/ip  ) was standardized , and consequently , the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks  ,  called the Internet , was introduced .
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer  विज्ञान  Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations .
Commercial Internet service  प्रदाताओं  ( ISPs ) began to  emerge  in the late 1980s and early 1990s .
The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990  .
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned , removing the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic .
Since the mid-1990s , the Internet  रै  had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce , including  the  rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail , instant messaging ,  आवाज़  over Internet Protocol ( VoIP )  ``  phone calls '' , two-way interactive video calls ,  और   the  World Wide Web with its discussion forums , blogs , social networking , and  ऑनलाइन  shopping sites .
The research and education community continues to develop and use advanced networks  ऐसे  as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ) , Internet2 , and National LambdaRail .
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and higher speeds over fiber optic networks  ऑपरेटिंग  at 1-Gbit/s , 10-Gbit/s , or more .
The Internet  's  takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms  :  it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way  दूरसंचार  networks in the year 1993 , already 51 % by 2000 , and more than 97  %  of the telecommunicated  सूचना  by 2007 .
Today  the  Internet  continues  to grow , driven by ever greater  amounts   of  online information , commerce , entertainment , and social networking .
The Gift is the second album by Scottish singer Susan Boyle  ,  which was released on 8 November 2010 .
Boyle hinted that the album  रै  a 1960s feel `` because that was  [  her ] era '' .
on 30 November 2011 , the album received a nomination in 54th Grammy Awards  लिये  Best Traditional Pop Vocal  एल्बम  .
`` This Is Just To  कह  '' ( 1934 ) is a famous imagist poem by William Carlos Williams .
Professor Albus Percival Wulfric Brian  डम्बल्डोर  is a major character and protagonist of J. K. Rowling 's  हैरी  Potter series .
For most of the series , he is the headmaster of the wizarding school Hogwarts .
As part of his backstory , it is revealed that he is the founder and leader of the Order of  the   फीनिक्स  , an organisation dedicated to fighting the main antagonist of the series , Lord Voldemort  .
Dumbledore is portrayed  by   रिचर्ड  Harris in the film adaptions  of  Harry Potter and the Philosopher  's  Stone and Harry Potter  और  the Chamber of Secrets .
After Harris ' death , Michael Gambon portrayed Dumbledore for all of the remaining films .
Rowling stated she chose the  नाम  Dumbledore , which is an Early Modern English word for `` bumblebee `` ,  क्युकी  of Dumbledore 's love of music :  वो  imagined him walking around `` humming to himself a lot '' .
Calcitonin ( also known as thyrocalcitonin ) is  a  32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone that is produced in humans primarily by the parafollicular cells ( also known as  c-cells  ) of the thyroid ,  और  in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body .
It acts to reduce blood calcium (  ca2+  ) , opposing the effects of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) .
Calcitonin has been found  in  fish , reptiles ,  पक्षियों  , and mammals  .
Its importance in humans has not been as well established as its importance in other animals , as its  फलन  is usually not significant in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis .
It belongs to calcitonin-like protein family .
A mousepad  साथ  a padded wrist rest .
A mousepad ( US  )  or mouse mat  (  UK ) is a surface for  रखकर  and moving  a  computer  चूहा  .
A mousepad enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using a mouse  सीधे  on a table by providing a surface to allow the tracking LED or ball ( in  पूर्व  models ) to measure movement accurately  और  without jitter  .
Some mousepads increase ergonomics  by  providing a padded wrist rest .
The stadium seen from above in  1980
December 29 , 2002 implosion
The Riverfront Stadium  साईट  in June , 2006 .
This photo was taken from the western concourse of Great American Ball  पार्क  .
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the Reds '  हॉल  of Fame and Museum and Main Street , which was extended when the new park was built .
The Cincinnati Bengals ' Paul Brown Stadium is in the distance .
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ) , later known as Cinergy Field ( 1996–2002 ) , was the home of the Cincinnati Reds National League baseball  टोली  and the Cincinnati Bengals National  फ़ुटबॉल  League team  .
Located on the Ohio River in downtown Cincinnati , the stadium was  बेहतरीन  known as the home of `` The Big Red Machine `` , as the Reds  यहूद  often called in the 1970s .
Construction began on February 1 , 1968 , and was completed at a cost of less than $ 50 million .
On  जून  30 , 1970 , the  लाल   hosted  the Atlanta Braves in their grand opening , with Hank  आरोन  hitting the first ever home run at Riverfront .
Two weeks later on July 14 ,  1970  , Riverfront hosted the 1970 Major League Baseball All-Star  खेल  .
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed collision at home plate  between  Reds star Pete Rose and  catcher   रे  Fosse of the Cleveland Indians .
In September 1996 , Riverfront Stadium was renamed `` Cinergy Field  ''  in a sponsorship deal with Greater Cincinnati 's energy  कम्पनी  , Cinergy  निगम  .
In 2001 , to make room for Great American Ball  पार्क  , the seating capacity at Cinergy  फ़ील्ड  was reduced to 39,000 .
There was  a   विशाल  wall in Center Field visible  बाद  the renovations  ,  to serve as the batter 's eye  .
The stadium was demolished by implosion on December  29  , 2002 .
Nexen  टायर  is a  टायर  manufacturer , headquartered in Yangsan , South Gyeongsang Province , and Seoul , both in South Korea .
Its major domestic competitors are Hankook Tire and Kumho Tires .
The  कम्पनी  's name is reflected in the company slogan  ,  `` Next Century Tire . ''
The silent majority is an unspecified large majority of people in a country or group who do not express their opinions publicly .
The term was popularized ( though not first used ) by U.S. President Richard Nixon in a November 3 , 1969 ,  वाक  in which  he  said , ``  और  so tonight—to you , the great silent majority of my fellow Americans—I  पूछो  for your support . ''
in  this usage it referred to those Americans who did not join in the  विशाल  demonstrations against the Vietnam War at the time ,  जो  did not join in the counterculture , and who did not participate in public discourse .
Nixon along with many others saw this  समूह  of Middle Americans as being overshadowed  in  the media by  the  more vocal minority .
The phrase was used in the 19th century as a euphemism referring to all the people who have died , and others have  प्रयुक्त  it before and after Nixon to refer to groups  of  voters in various nations of the world .
Sam ,  a  rhesus monkey  ,  flew to an altitude of 88 km in 1959 .
( NASA )
Before humans went into space , several animals were launched into space , including numerous monkeys , so that scientists could investigate the biological effects of space travel .
The United States launched flights containing  primate  cargo  primarily  between 1948-1961  साथ  one flight in 1969 and one in 1985 .
France launched two monkey-carrying flights in 1967 .
The Soviet Union and Russia launched monkeys between 1983 and 1996 .
Most monkeys were anesthetized before lift-off .
overall  thirty-two monkeys flew in the space program ; none flew more  than  once  .
Numerous back-up monkeys also went  through  the programs but never flew .
Monkeys from several species were used , including rhesus  बंदरों   ,  cynomolgus monkeys , squirrel  बंदरों  ,  और   pig-tailed  macaques .
Some chimpanzees (  जिससे  are apes rather than monkeys ) were also used .
RAID ( redundant array  of  independent disks , originally redundant array of inexpensive disks ) is a storage  प्रौद्योगिकी  that combines multiple disk drive components into a logical unit .
Data is distributed across the drives in one of several ways called `` RAID levels '' ,  depending  on the level of redundancy and  प्रदर्शन  required .
The term `` RAID '' was first defined by David Patterson , Garth A. Gibson , and Randy Katz  at  the University of California , Berkeley in 1987 .
Marketers representing industry RAID manufacturers later attempted to reinvent the term to describe a  अनावश्यक  array of independent disks  as  a means of disassociating a low-cost expectation from RAID technology .
RAID is now  प्रयुक्त  as an umbrella term for computer data storage schemes  कि  can divide and replicate  आंकड़ा  among multiple physical  ड्राइव  : RAID  is  an example of storage virtualization and the array can be accessed by the operating system as one single drive .
The different schemes or architectures are named by the word RAID followed  by  a number ( e.g . RAID 0  ,  RAID 1 ) .
Each scheme provides a different balance between the key goals : reliability and availability , performance and capacity .
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide protection against unrecoverable  (  sector ) read errors , as well as whole disk failure .
a  lymphocyte is a  प्रकार  of white blood  कोशिका  in the vertebrate immune system .
Under the microscope , lymphocytes can be  विभाजित  into large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes  .
Large  granular  lymphocytes include natural killer  कोशिकाएं  ( NK cells ) .
Small lymphocytes consist of T cells and B cells .
The Big Lebowski  is   a  1998 dark comedy film written and directed by  जोएल  and Ethan Coen .
Jeff Bridges stars as Jeff Lebowski ,  an  unemployed Los Angeles slacker and avid bowler ,  nicknamed   ``  The Dude .  ''
After a case  of  mistaken identity , The Dude is introduced to a millionaire also named Jeffrey  lebowski  .
When the millionaire  lebowski  's trophy wife is  बाद  kidnapped , he commissions The Dude to deliver the ransom to secure her release .
The plan goes awry when The  यार  's friend Walter Sobchak ( John Goodman ) schemes to keep the full ransom .
Steve Buscemi , Philip Seymour Hoffman , David Huddleston , Julianne Moore , Tara  reid  ,  और  John Turturro also star in the  फिल्मी  , which is  narrated  by a cowboy known only  as  `` The Stranger  ''  , played by Sam Elliott .
The film is loosely inspired by the work of Raymond Chandler .
Joel  कोएन  stated : `` We  चाही  to do a Chandler  दयालु  of story – how it  चालें  episodically ,  और  deals with the characters trying to unravel a mystery , as well as  having  a hopelessly complex plot that 's ultimately unimportant . ''
the  original score was composed by Carter Burwell , a longtime collaborator of the Coen Brothers .
The Big Lebowski was a disappointment at the U.S. box office and received mixed reviews at the time of  इसके  release .
Reviews have trended towards the positive over time , and the film  रै  become a cult favorite  ,  noted for  इसके  idiosyncratic characters ,  सपना   sequences  , unconventional dialogue , and eclectic soundtrack  .
Severus Snape  is  a fictional character in the Harry Potter book series written by J.K. Rowling .
In the first novel of the  श्रेणी  , he is hostile toward Harry and is  निर्मित  up to be the primary antagonist until the final chapters  .
As the series progresses  ,  Snape 's character becomes more layered and complex .
रोलिंग  does not fully reveal the details of his true  loyalties  until the end of  the  final  किताब   ,  Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows .
Over  the  course  of  the series , Snape  's  portrayal evolves from that of a malicious and partisan teacher to that of a pivotal character of considerable  जटिलता  and moral ambiguity .
Snape primarily teaches Potions at Hogwarts , though in the sixth novel he  सिखाती  Defence Against the Dark Arts , a position which he was known  to  have desired throughout the  श्रेणी  .
He ultimately becomes Headmaster of  हॉग्वार्ट्स  in the final novel  .
Rowling  रै  described him as `` a gift of a character '' .
grits  refers to a ground-corn food of Native American origin , that is  आम  in the Southern  संयुक्त   राज्य  and mainly eaten at breakfast .
Modern grits are commonly made of alkali-treated  मकई  known as hominy  .
Grits are similar to other thick maize-based porridges from around  the  world such as polenta or the thinner farina .
`` Instant  grits  '' have been processed to speed  कुकिंग  .
The word  ``   grits  ''  गर्भाशयी  from the Old English word `` grytt , '' meaning coarse meal .
इस  word originally referred to wheat and other porridges now known as groats in parts of the U.K..
Maize , unknown  in  Europe in the Middle Ages , is  a  food derived  इससे  corn ( a  नई  World plant ) and `` corn '' had been used to describe wheat products in many European regions .
`` Grits  ''  may be either singular or plural ; historically  ,  in the American South the word was  invariably  singular notwithstanding its plural form ( cf . such food names as `` spaghetti '' or  ``  linguine '' , likewise plural in form , but  एकवचन  in use )  .
Sometimes , grits  हैं  called sofkee or sofkey (  इससे  a native American Muskogee word ) .
In molecular biology ,  इंसान  chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by  the  fertilized egg after conception .
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta , and later  by  the placental component syncytiotrophoblast .
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone ; therefore , elevated levels measured when the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis .
However , it is not known whether this  उत्पादन   is  a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis .
the  pituitary analogue of hCG , known  as  luteinizing  हार्मोन  (  lh  )  ,  is produced in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages .
, the FDA has prohibited the sale of `` homeopathic '' and over the counter  hcg  diet products and  घोषित  them fraudulent and illegal .
The Las Vegas Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a  कार्बोनेटेड   नरम  drink sold in stores  ,  restaurants , and vending machines in every country except Cuba  और  North Korea .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia , and is often referred to simply as Coke (  a   पंजीकृत  trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally  intended  as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by  बिजनेसमैन  Asa Griggs Candler , whose  विपणन  tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then sold to  licensed  Coca-Cola bottlers  throughout  the world .
The bottlers , who  थाम   territorially  exclusive contracts with the company  ,  produce finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate  in  combination with  filtered  water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then sell , distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending  मशीने  .
ऐसे  bottlers include Coca-Cola  उद्यमों  , which  is  the largest single Coca-Cola  bottler  in North America and western  यूरोपीय  .
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for soda  स्रोतों  to major  रेस्तरां  and food service distributors .
the  Coca-Cola Company has  ,  on occasion , introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand name .
The most common of these is Diet  कोक  , with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola , Diet Coke Caffeine-Free , Coca-Cola Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola  वैनिला  , and special versions with lemon  ,  lime or  कॉफी   .
Based on Interbrand 's  बेहतरीन  global  ब्रांड  2011 , Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand .
An ombudsman is an official , usually appointed by the government or by parliament but with a  significant   उपाधि  of independence , who is charged with representing the interests of the public by investigating and addressing complaints of maladministration or violation of rights  .
In some countries  an  Inspector General , Citizen Advocate or other official may have duties similar to those of a national ombudsman , and may also be appointed by the legislature .
Below the national level an ombudsman may  be  appointed by  a   राज्य  , local or municipal government ,  और  unofficial ombudsmen may be appointed by , or even work for , a corporation such  as  a utility supplier or a newspaper , for an NGO , or for a professional regulatory body  .
Whether appointed by the legislature ,  the  executive , or an organization ( or , less  अक्सर   ,  elected by the constituency that he or she  serves   )  , the typical duties of an ombudsman are to investigate complaints and  attempt  to resolve them , usually through recommendations  (   बाइंडिंग  or not ) or mediation .
ombudsmen  sometimes also aim to identify systemic issues leading to poor service or breaches of people 's rights .
At the national level , most ombudsmen  have  a wide mandate to deal with the entire public sector ,  और  sometimes also elements of the private sector ( for example , contracted service providers ) .
In some  मामले  , there is  a  more restricted mandate , for example with particular sectors of society .
More  हाल  developments have  शामिल  the creation of specialised Children 's Ombudsman and Information Commissioner agencies .
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman  चार्ज  with the handling of concerns about national government is more formally  referred  to as the `` Parliamentary Commissioner '' ( e.g . the United Kingdom Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration , and  the  Western  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  state Ombudsman ) .
In many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing with alleged maladministration to promoting and protecting human rights , the ombudsman is recognised as the national human rights  संस्था  .
The post of ombudsman had by the end of  the  20th century been instituted  by  most governments and by  कुछ   intergovernmental  organizations such as the European Union .
Making a complaint to an ombudsman is usually free of charge .
Sign at Georgetown University Washington DC
Sign in Banjul , The  गाम्बिया
Autumn in New England , watercolor , Maurice  prendergast  .
ca  . 1910–1913
Fall foliage in  the  town of Stowe , Vermont
New England is a  प्रदेश  in the northeastern corner of  the  United States consisting  of  the six states of Maine , New Hampshire , Vermont , Massachusetts , Rhode Island , and  कनेक्टिकट  .
New England is bordered by New York state to  the   दक्षिणपश्चिम  , Quebec  to   the  northwest , and New Brunswick and the Atlantic Ocean to the east .
In one of the earliest English settlements in North America , Pilgrims from England first settled in New England  in  1620  ,  to form Plymouth Colony .
Ten years later , the Puritans settled north of Plymouth Colony in Boston , thus forming Massachusetts Bay Colony .
Over the next 130 years , New England fought in four French and Indian  युद्धों  , until the British defeated  the  French  और  their native allies in North America .
In the late 18th century ,  the  New England Colonies initiated the resistance to the British Parliament 's efforts  to  impose new taxes  बगैर  the consent of the colonists .
the   बोस्टन  Tea Party was a protest to which Great Britain responded with a series of punitive laws stripping Massachusetts of self-government , which  यहूद  termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists .
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775 , the expulsion of the British authorities from New England in spring 1776 , and the Declaration of Independence in July 1776 .
Some  of  the  पहला  movements of American literature , philosophy , and education originated in  नई  England .
The region played a prominent role in the movement to abolish slavery ,  और  was the first region of the United States to be transformed by the Industrial Revolution .
Today , New England is a major world center of  शिक्षा  , high technology , insurance , and medicine .
Boston is its cultural ,  वित्तीय  , educational , medical and  परिवहन  center .
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated  municipalities  known as New  इंग्लैण्ड  towns  ,  which are often governed by town  बैठक  .
The only unincorporated  territory  in New England exists in  the  sparse  ,  northern regions of Vermont , New Hampshire , and Maine .
Since 1970 , voters  have  more often supported liberal candidates  at  the state and  संघीय  level than those of any other region in the United States .
New England is the  तभी  one of the United States Census Bureau 's  नौ  regional divisions whose name does not derive from  इसके  geography ,  और   it  is  the   तभी  multi-state region with  साफ  , consistent boundaries  .
It maintains a strong sense of cultural identity set apart from  the  rest of the country , although the terms of this identity are often contested , combining Puritanism with liberalism , agrarian life with industry  ,  and isolation with immigration .
Emergency !
is an American television series  कि  combines  the  medical drama and action-adventure genres .
It was produced by Mark  सात  Limited and distributed by Universal Studios .
It debuted as a midseason replacement on January 15 , 1972  ,  on NBC ,  replacing  the two short-lived  श्रेणी  The Partners and The Good Life , and ran until September 3 , 1977 , with six additional two-hour television films during  the  following two years .
Emergency !
was created and produced by Jack Webb and  रॉबर्ट  A. Cinader , both of whom were also responsible for the police dramas Adam-12 and Dragnet .
The Eastern Time Zone ( ET ) encompasses 17 U.S. states in the eastern part of the contiguous United States , parts of Canada and three  देशों  in South America .
Places that  उपयोग  Eastern Standard Time ( EST  )  when  observing  standard time ( autumn/winter ) are 5 hours behind Coordinated  सार्वभौमिक  Time ( ) .
Eastern Daylight Time ( EDT ) , when observing daylight saving  समय  (  spring/summer  ) is 4 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
In the northern  भाग  of the time zone ,  दौरान  the second Sunday in March , at 2:00 a.m. EST  ,  clocks are advanced to 3:00 a.m.  edt  leaving a one  घंटा  `` gap . ''
During the  पहला   संडे  in November  ,  at 2:00 a.m. EDT ,  घड़ियाँ  are moved back to 1:00 a.m. EST , thus  ``  duplicating '' one hour .
Southern  भाग  of the zone ( Panama and the Caribbean ) do not observe daylight saving  .
Standard form of  the  periodic table .
The colors represent different categories of elements explained below .
The periodic table  is   a  tabular display of the  रासायनिक  elements , organized on the basis of their atomic numbers , electron  configurations  , and recurring chemical properties .
Elements are presented in order of  increasing  atomic number ( number of protons ) .
The standard form of table comprises an 18 ×  7  grid or main body of elements , positioned  ऊपर  a smaller double  पंक्ति  of elements .
The table can also be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the left  ,  the p-block  to  the right , the d-block in the middle , and  the  f-block below that .
The rows  of  the table are called periods ; the  कालम  of the s- ,  d-  , and p-blocks are called groups  ,  with some of these having  names  such as the halogens or the noble gases .
Since , by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can be used to derive relationships between the properties of the elements and predict the properties of new , yet to be  खोजा  or synthesized , elements .
as  a result , a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides  a  useful framework for analyzing chemical behavior , and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences .
Although precursors exist , Dmitri Mendeleev is generally credited with the publication , in 1869 , of the first widely recognized  आवधिक   तालिका  .
He developed his table to illustrate  आवधिक  trends in the properties of the then-known elements .
Mendeleev also predicted  कुछ  properties of then-unknown  तत्व  that would be expected to fill gaps  in   इस  table .
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the  तत्व  in question were subsequently discovered .
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined with the discovery or synthesis of further new elements  और  the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical  बर्ताव  .
All elements from  परमाणु  numbers 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been  खोजा  or synthesized .
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have  महरूम  found to  मौजूद  naturally , although some are found only in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories .
The elements after 98 have only been synthesized  in  laboratories .
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued , with the question  of  how the periodic  तालिका  may need to be modified to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate .
numerous  synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring elements have also been produced in laboratories .
Minecraft is a sandbox indie game  originally  created by Swedish programmer Markus `` Notch '' Persson and later developed and  प्रकाशित  by Mojang .
It  थी   सरेआम  released for the PC on May 17 , 2009  ,  as a developmental alpha version and , after gradual updates , was published as a full release version on November 18 , 2011 .
A version for Android was released a month  पहले  on October 7 , and an iOS version was released on November  17  , 2011 .
On May 9 , 2012 , the game was released on Xbox 360 as an Xbox Live Arcade game , co-developed by 4J Studios .
All versions of Minecraft receive periodic updates .
The creative and building aspects of Minecraft allow players to build constructions out of  textured  cubes in  a  3D procedurally generated world .
Other activities in the game  शामिल  exploration , gathering resources ,  crafting  and combat .
Gameplay in its commercial release has two principal modes : survival , which requires players to acquire resources and  maintain  their health and hunger ; and creative , where players have an unlimited supply  of  resources , the ability to fly  ,  and no health  or  hunger .
A third gameplay mode  नामित  hardcore is the same as survival , differing only in difficulty ; it is  नियत  to hardest setting and respawning is disabled , forcing players to delete  उनके  worlds upon death .
Minecraft received five awards from the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded the Innovation Award , Best Downloadable Game Award  ,  and the Best Debut  खेल  Award from the Game  डेवलपर  Choice  पुरस्कार  ; and the Audience Award  ,  as well as the Seumas McNally Grand Prize , from the Independent Games Festival in 2011 .
In  2012  , Minecraft was awarded  a  Golden Joystick Award in  the  category Best Downloadable Game .
As of April 8 , 2013 , the game has sold over 10 million copies on  pc  and as of January 22 , 2013 , over  20  million copies across all  प्लेटफ़ॉर्म   .
The Dark  नाईट  is  a  2008 British-American  सुपरहीरो  film  निर्देशित  , produced , and co-written  by  Christopher Nolan .
Based on  the  DC Comics character Batman , the film is  the  second part of  नोलन  's Batman film  श्रेणी  and a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins .
Christian Bale  reprises   the  lead role of Bruce Wayne/Batman , with a returning cast of Michael Caine as Alfred Pennyworth , Gary Oldman as  जेम्स  Gordon and Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox .
The film introduces the character of Harvey Dent  (  Aaron Eckhart ) , Gotham  's  newly elected District Attorney and the consort of Bruce Wayne 's childhood friend Rachel  dawes  ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ) , who joins Batman and the police in combating the new rising threat  of  a criminal mastermind calling himself `` The Joker `` (  झाड़  Ledger ) .
Nolan 's inspiration for the film was the Joker 's comic book debut in 1940 , the 1988 graphic novel , and the 1996 series , which retold Two-Face 's origin .
The nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was first  लागू  to Batman in Batman No . 1 ( 1940 ) , in a  स्टोरी   लिखा  by Bill Finger .
the  Dark Knight was filmed primarily in Chicago , as well as  in  several other locations in the United States , the United Kingdom , and Hong Kong .
Nolan used an IMAX camera to film some sequences , including the Joker 's first appearance in the film  .
On January 22 , 2008 , some months after he had completed filming on The Dark Knight and six months before the film 's release ,  झाड़  Ledger died from a toxic combination of prescription drugs , leading to intense  ध्यान  from the press  और  movie-going public .
Warner Bros. had initially created a viral marketing campaign for The Dark Knight , developing promotional websites and trailers highlighting screen shots of Ledger as the Joker , but after Ledger 's death , the studio refocused  इसके  promotional  अभियान  .
The Dark Knight was released on July 16 , 2008 in Australia , on July 18 , 2008 in North America , and  on   जुलाई  24 , 2008 in the United Kingdom  .
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s  और  one of the best superhero films ever made , the film received highly positive reviews and set numerous  रिकॉर्ड  during its theatrical run .
With over $ 1 billion in revenue worldwide , it is the 14th-highest-grossing film of  सब  time , unadjusted for inflation .
The  फिल्मी  received eight Academy Award nominations ; it won the  पुरस्कार  for Best Sound Editing and Ledger was posthumously awarded Best Supporting Actor .
The Dark Knight Rises , the final part of the trilogy , was released on July 20 , 2012 .
The timeline of radio lists within the history of  रेडियो  , the technology  और   कार्यक्रम  that  उत्पादित  instruments that use radio waves and activities that people undertook .
Later  ,  the history is dominated by programming and contents , which is closer to general history .
the  Sydney Opera House is a  multi-venue  performing arts centre in New South Wales , Australia  .
It was conceived and largely built  by  Danish architect Jørn Utzon , opening  in   1973  after a long gestation that began  साथ   उसके   competition-winning  design in 1957 .
Joseph Cahill 's New South Wales Government  दिया  the go-ahead for work to begin in  1958  .
The government  's  bold decision to select Utzon 's design  is  often overshadowed by the  कांड  that followed .
it  is on Bennelong Point in Sydney Harbour , close to the  सिडनी   harbour  Bridge .
it  sits at the northeastern tip of the  सिडनी  central business district ( the CBD  )  , surrounded on three sides by the harbour ( Sydney Cove and Farm Cove ) and inland by  the  Royal Botanic Gardens .
Contrary to its name , it  घरों  multiple performance venues .
It is among  the  busiest  performing  arts  केंद्रों   in  the world , hosting over 1,500 performances  प्रत्येक  year attended  by  some 1.2 million people .
It  provides  a venue for many performing-arts companies ,  सहित  the four key resident companies Opera Australia , The Australian Ballet , the Sydney Theatre Company and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra , and presents  a  wide range of productions on its own account  .
It is also one of the most popular visitor attractions in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , with more than seven million people visiting each year , 300,000 of  जिसको  take a guided tour .
it  is administered  by  the Sydney  ओपेरा  House Trust , under the New South Wales Ministry of  the  Arts  .
On 28 June 2007 , it was made a UNESCO World Heritage Site .
It is one of the 20th century 's most distinctive buildings and one of the most famous performing arts centres  in  the world .
A  आलेख  of body mass index as a function of body mass and body height is shown above .
The dashed lines represent subdivisions within  a  major class .
For instance the `` Underweight ''  वर्गीकरण  is further divided into `` severe '' , `` moderate '' , and `` mild ''  subclasses  .
the  body mass  अनुक्रमणिका  ( BMI ) , or Quetelet index , is a measure for human body shape based on an individual 's weight and height .
It was devised between  1830  and 1850 by the Belgian polymath Adolphe Quetelet during the course of developing `` social physics '' .
देह  mass  अनुक्रमणिका  is defined as the individual 's body mass divided  by   the  square of their height .
The formulae universally used in medicine produce a unit of measure of kg/m2 .
BMI can also be determined using a BMI  चार्ट  , which displays  बीएमआई  as a function of weight ( horizontal axis ) and height ( vertical axis ) using contour lines  लिये  different values of BMI or colors for different BMI categories .
† The factor  लिये  UK/US units is more precisely 703.06957964 , but that level  of  precision is not meaningful for this  गणना  .
To work from stone and pounds  पहला  multiply the stone by 14 then add  the  pounds  to  give the whole mass in pounds ; to  कार्य  from feet and inches first multiply the feet  by  12 then add the inches  to  give the whole height in inches  .
Thomas Paine ( January 29 , 1737 ( NS February 9 ,  1737  ) –  जून  8 , 1809 ) was an  english-american   राजनैतिक  activist , author , political theorist and revolutionary .
As the author of two highly  influential  pamphlets at the start of the American Revolution ,  he  inspired the Patriots in 1776 to declare independence from Britain .
His ideas reflected Enlightenment era rhetoric of transnational  इंसान  rights .
He has been called `` a corsetmaker by trade , a journalist by profession , and a propagandist by inclination . ''
Born in Thetford  ,  England ,  in  the county of Norfolk , Paine emigrated  to  the  अंग्रेजों  American colonies in 1774 with  the   सहायता  of Benjamin Franklin and he  arrived  in time to participate in the American Revolution  .
His principal contributions were the powerful , widely read pamphlet Common Sense ( 1776  )  , the all-time best-selling American book  कि  advocated colonial America 's independence from the Kingdom of  ग्रेट  Britain ,  और  The American Crisis ( 1776–83 ) ,  a  pro-revolutionary pamphlet series .
Common Sense was so influential that John Adams said , `` Without the pen of the author of Common Sense , the sword of Washington would have been raised in vain.”
Paine lived in France for most of the 1790s , becoming deeply involved in the French Revolution .
He wrote the Rights of Man ( 1791 ) , in part a defence of the French  क्रान्ति  against its critics .
His attacks on British writer Edmund Burke led to a trial  और  conviction  in  absentia in 1792  लिये  the crime of seditious libel .
in  1792 , despite not being  समर्थ  to speak French , he  थी  elected to the French National Convention  .
The  girondists  regarded him as an ally .
Consequently , the Montagnards  ,  especially Robespierre , regarded him as an enemy .
in  December 1793 , he was arrested and imprisoned in Paris , then released in 1794 .
He became notorious because of  the  Age of Reason (  1793–94  ) , his book  कि  advocates deism , promotes reason and freethinking , and argues against institutionalized religion in general and  ईसाई   doctrine  in particular .
He also wrote the pamphlet Agrarian Justice ( 1795 ) , discussing the origins of property , and introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income .
In 1802 , he returned to America where he died  on  June  8  , 1809 .
Only six people attended his funeral as he had been ostracized for his ridicule of Christianity .
Clinical trials are sets of  परीक्षण  in medical research and  ड्रग  development that generate safety and efficacy data ( or more  specifically  , information  परिचय  adverse drug reactions  और  adverse effects of  अन्य  treatments ) for health interventions ( e.g. , drugs , diagnostics , devices , therapy protocols ) .
They are conducted only  बाद   संतोषजनक  information  रै  been gathered on the  विशेषता  of  the   गैर  clinical safety ,  और  health authority/ethics committee approval is granted in the country where approval of the drug or device is  sought  .
Previously , many emerging  देशों  did not require local trials for product approvals .
Now ,  हालांकि  emerging countries still accept data from U.S./Europe , they also require  कुछ  local trials .
Depending on the type of product and the stage of its development , investigators initially enroll volunteers and/or patients into small pilot studies  ,  and subsequently  conduct  larger scale studies in patients that often  compare  the new product with others already approved for the affliction of interest .
As  धनात्मक  safety  और  efficacy data are gathered , the  क्रमांक  of patients is typically increased .
Clinical trials can vary  in  size , and can involve a single research entity in one country or many such entities in multiple countries  .
A full series of trials may incur sizable costs , and the burden of paying  लिये  all the necessary people and services is usually  borne  by  the  sponsor , which may be a governmental organization  or   a  pharmaceutical , biotechnology or medical  यंत्र  company .
When the diversity  of  required support roles exceeds the resources of the sponsor , a clinical trial  is  managed  by  an outsourced partner , such as a  अनुबंध  research  संगठन  or a clinical trials unit in the academic sector .
The Green Bay Packers are an American football team based in Green Bay , Wisconsin .
They are members  of  the North Division of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL , having been  व्यवस्थित  and playing in 1919  .
The Packers are the only non-profit , community-owned major league professional sports team  in  the United States .
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that  यहूद  once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s .
Founded in 1919  by  Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun , the Green Bay Packers can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896 .
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional football team against clubs from around Wisconsin and the Midwest .
They  joined  the  अमरीकी  Professional  फ़ुटबॉल   संघ  ( APFA ) in 1921 , the forerunner to what  is  known today as the National Football League (  एनएफएल  ) .
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team , its local  प्रशंसक  base and media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994  .
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the  एनएफएल  ) , including nine NFL championships prior to the Super Bowl era  और  four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ) , 1968 ( Super Bowl II ) , 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 (  सुपर  Bowl XLV ) .
The Packers have long-standing , bitter rivalries with  उनके  NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents , the  शिकागो  Bears ,  मिनेसोटा  Vikings  और  the Detroit Lions  .
the  Bears-Packers rivalry is  एक  of the oldest rivalries in NFL history , dating back to 1921 .
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl  दारू  ) , the same type of alcohol found in  alcoholic  beverages .
It is most often used  as  a motor fuel , mainly as a biofuel additive for gasoline  .
World ethanol production  लिये  transport fuel tripled between 2000 and 2007 from  17  billion to more than 52 billion liters .
From 2007 to 2008  ,  the share of ethanol in global  गैसोलीन  type fuel use increased from 3.7 %  to  5.4 % .
in  2011 worldwide ethanol fuel production reached 22.36 billion  u.S.  liquid gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters  )  , with the  संयुक्त  States as the top  निर्माता  with 13.9 bg ( 52.6 billion liters ) , accounting for 62.2 % of global production , followed by Brazil with 5.6 bg ( 21.1  अरब  liters ) .
Ethanol fuel has a `` gasoline gallon  equivalency  `` ( GGE ) value of , which means 1.5 gallons of ethanol  उपज  the energy of one gallon of gasoline  .
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil and in  the  United States , and together both countries were responsible for 87.1 % of the world 's ethanol fuel production in 2011 .
Most  गाड़ियाँ   on  the road  आज  in the  u.S.  can run on blends of up to 10 % ethanol , and ethanol represented 10 % of the  u.S.  gasoline fuel supply derived from domestic sources in  2011  .
Since 1976 the Brazilian government has made it mandatory to  मिश्रण  ethanol with gasoline , and since 2007 the legal blend is around 25 % ethanol and 75 %  गैसोलीन  ( E25  )  .
By December 2011  ब्राज़ील  had a fleet  of  14.8 million flex-fuel automobiles and light trucks  और  1.5  लाख  flex-fuel motorcycles that regularly use neat ethanol  ईंधन  ( known as E100 ) .
bioethanol  is a form of renewable energy that can be produced from agricultural feedstocks .
it  can be made from very common crops such as  शुगर  cane , potato  ,  manioc and corn .
There has been considerable  बहस  about how useful bioethanol will be in replacing gasoline .
Concerns about its production and use relate to increased food prices due to the large  राशि  of arable land required for crops , as well as the energy and pollution balance of the whole cycle of ethanol production , especially from corn .
Recent developments with cellulosic ethanol production and commercialization may allay  कुछ  of these concerns .
Cellulosic ethanol offers promise because cellulose fibers , a  प्रमुख  and universal component in plant  कोशिकाएं  walls , can be used to produce ethanol .
According to the International Energy Agency  ,  cellulosic ethanol could allow ethanol fuels to play a much bigger role in the future than previously thought  .
साब  9-3 SportCombi BioPower .
The second E85 flexifuel model introduced by  साब  in  the  Swedish market .
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo  princip  ( image taken in 1987 ,  पहले  steps were removed in 1992 and plaque  बदला  from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location  of  the Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in  2009  )
On 28 June 1914 , Archduke  फ्रांज   फर्डिनेंड  of Austria , heir presumptive  to  the Austro-Hungarian throne , and his wife , Sophie , Duchess of Hohenberg , were shot dead in Sarajevo ,  by   gavrilo  Princip , one of a group of six Bosnian  serb  assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so they could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia  .
The assassins  '  motives were consistent with the movement that later became known as Young Bosnia .
Serbian military  अधिकारियों  stood behind the attack .
At  the  top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević , his righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić , and Masterspy Rade  malobabić  .
Major Tankosić armed the assassins with bombs and pistols and trained them .
The assassins were given access to  the   वही   clandestine   टनल  of  safe-houses  and agents that Rade  malobabić  used for the  घुसपैठ  of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary .
The assassins ,  the  key members  of  the clandestine tunnel , and the  कुंजी  Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested , tried ,  convicted  and punished .
Those who were arrested in Bosnia were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914 .
The  अन्य  conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo  अदालत  on the  french-controlled  Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators .
Much of what is known about  the  assassinations comes  इससे  these two trials and related records .
Assignment of responsibility  लिये  the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of World War I one month later .
renée  Kathleen Zellweger ( born April 25 , 1969 ) is  an  American actress and  निर्माता  .
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her role in the  फिल्मी  Jerry Maguire ( 1996 ) , and  subsequently   प्राप्त   दो  nominations for the Academy Award for Best  अभिनेत्री  for her roles as Bridget Jones in the comedy  ब्रिजेट  Jones 's  डायरी  ( 2001 ) ,  और  as Roxie Hart in the musical  शिकागो  ( 2002 ) .
She won the Academy Award for  बेहतरीन  Supporting Actress for her performance in the  नाटक  Cold  पहाड़  (  2003  ) .
She has won an Academy Award , three  सुनहरी  Globe Awards , three Screen Actors Guild Awards  ,  and a BAFTA Award ; was named Hasty Pudding 's Woman of the Year in 2009 ; and established herself as one of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as  of   2007  .
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are the three smallest bones in  the  human body , the malleus  ,  the incus and the  stapes  .
They are contained within the middle ear  स्पेस  and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth (  cochlea  ) .
The absence of the auditory ossicles would constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss .
The term `` ossicles ''  वस्तुतः  means `` tiny bones  ''  and commonly refers to the auditory ossicles , though the term may  refer  to any small bone throughout the  देह   .
The  नई  Covenant ( Hebrew • • — Greek • • diatheke kaine ) is a biblical interpretation originally derived  इससे   a  phrase in the Book of Jeremiah , in the Hebrew Scriptures .
It is often thought of as  an  eschatological  मुक्तिदाता  Age or world to come and is related  to  the biblical concept of the Kingdom of God  .
Generally , Christians believe that the New  वचन  was instituted at the Last Supper as part of the Eucharist , which in the Gospel of John includes the New Commandment .
There are several Christian eschatologies that further define the New Covenant , as an  उदाहरण  an inaugurated eschatology defines and describes the New Covenant as an ongoing relationship between Christian believers and God that will be in full fruition after the Second Coming of Christ  ;  that is , it will not only be in full fruition in believing hearts , but in the future external world as well .
The connection between the Blood of  मसीह  and  the  New Covenant  is  seen in most modern English translations of the New Testament with  the   saying  : `` this cup that is poured out for you is the  नई  covenant in my blood '' .
Christians believe that Jesus is the mediator of the New Covenant , and that  the  Blood of Christ  शेड  at his crucifixion is the required blood of the covenant .
as   साथ  all covenants between God and man described  in  the Bible , the  नई  Covenant is considered `` a bond in blood sovereignly administered by God . ''
It has been theorized that  the  New Covenant is the Law of  मसीह  as spoken during his Sermon on the Mount .
The following List of people pardoned or granted clemency by  the  President  of   the   संयुक्त  States documents the most  prominent   मामले  of each presidency .
As granted by the Constitution ( Article II , Section 2 , Clause 1 ) , Presidents have the power to grant clemency in one  or  more of the following ways : the ability to grant a full pardon , to commute a sentence , or to rescind  a   ठीक  .
U.S. Presidents have no power to grant clemency for  अपराधों  prosecuted under state  विधि  .
As to  the  difference between a pardon and a commutation:
A pardon is an executive order vacating a conviction .
a  commutation is  the  mitigation of the sentence of someone currently serving a sentence for a crime pursuant to a conviction , without vacating the conviction itself .
Approximately 20,000 pardons and clemencies were issued by U.S. presidents in the 20th century alone .
The records of acts of clemency were public until 1934 .
In 1981 the Office of the Pardon  attorney  was created and records  इससे   अध्यक्ष  H.  W.  Bush forward are now listed .
This list includes pardons and commutations .
Tampa ( ) is a city in  the  U.S. state of Florida .
It serves as the  काउंटी  seat for Hillsborough County and is located on the west coast of Florida , on  tampa   खाड़ी   निकट  the  गल्फ  of Mexico .
The population of Tampa in  2011  was 346,037 .
The current location of Tampa was once inhabited by indigenous peoples  of  the Safety Harbor  संस्कृति   ,   सबसे  notably the Tocobaga and the Pohoy , who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay .
It was briefly explored by Spanish explorers in the early 16th  सदी  , but there were no permanent American or European settlements within today 's city limits until after the  संयुक्त  States  था  acquired Florida from Spain in 1819 .
in  1824  ,  the United States Army established a frontier outpost  पुकारा  Fort Brooke at the mouth  of  the  hillsborough  River  ,   निकट  the site of today 's Tampa Convention Center .
The first civilian  निवासियों  were pioneers who settled near the fort for protection from the nearby Seminole population .
The  कस्बा  grew slowly until the 1880s , when railroad links , the discovery  of  phosphate , and the arrival of the cigar industry jump-started Tampa 's development and helped it to  grow  into an important city by  the  early 1900s .
Today , Tampa is a part of the metropolitan area most commonly referred  to   as   the  Tampa Bay Area .
For U.S. Census purposes , Tampa is part of the  tampa-st.  Petersburg-Clearwater  ,  Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area .
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7  लाख  residents , making it the second largest metropolitan statistical area ( MSA ) in the state , and the fourth largest in the  southeastern  United  राज्य  , behind Miami , Washington , D.C. , and Atlanta .
the  Greater Tampa Bay area has just over 4 million residents and  generally  includes  the  Tampa and Sarasota metro areas .
The Tampa Bay Partnership and U.S.  जनसांख्यिकी  data showed an average annual growth of  2.47  percent , or a gain of approximately 97,000 residents per year .
Between  2000  and 2006 , the Greater  tampa  Bay Market experienced  a  combined  विकास  rate of 14.8 percent , growing from 3.4 million to 3.9  लाख  and hitting the 4 million people mark on April 1 , 2007 .
a  2012 estimate shows the Tampa Bay area population to have 4,310,524 people and a 2017  प्रक्षेप  of 4,536,854 people .
Tampa has a number of  खेल  teams  ,  such as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the  नेशनल   फ़ुटबॉल  League , the Tampa Bay Lightning of the  नेशनल  Hockey League ,  और  the Tampa Bay Storm  of  the Arena Football League .
The Tampa Bay Rays in Major League Baseball and the Tampa Bay  rowdies  of the North American  सॉकर   लीग  play their home games in  neighboring  St. Petersburg , Florida .
in  2008 , Tampa was  क्रमित  as the 5th best outdoor city  by  Forbes  .
A 2004 survey by the NYU newspaper Washington Square News ranked Tampa as  a  top city for  ``  twenty-somethings . ''
Tampa is now ranked as a `` Gamma  ''  world city by Loughborough University .
According to Loughborough , Tampa  बाँधने  alongside other world cities such as Phoenix , Santo  डोमिंगो   ,  and Osaka .
In recent years Tampa  रै  seen a notable upsurge in  high-market  demand from consumers , signaling  अधिक  wealth  concentrated  in the area .
Tampa hosted the 2012 Republican National Convention .
The Chevrolet Cavalier was a compact  ऑटोमोबाइल  produced from 1982  to  2005 by General Motors .
Built on the  कम्पनी  's J platform  ,   the  Cavalier produced the  उच्चतम  sales in 1984 .
AT & T Mobility LLC branded and referred to as AT &  t  ( formerly  cingular  Wireless LLC ) , is a wholly owned  subsidiary  of AT & T Inc. that  provides  wireless services to 107 million subscribers in the United States  ,  including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands .
AT & T Mobility is the second largest wireless telecommunications  प्रदाता  in the United States and Puerto Rico , behind Verizon Wireless , which  serves  115.78 million customers as  of  the fourth quarter  of  2012 .
AT & T Mobility is headquartered in the Lenox Park area  of  DeKalb Co. Georgia , just  बाहर  Atlanta .
Originally Cingular  बेतार  LLC  इससे  2000 to 2007  ,  a joint  venture  between SBC Communications  और  BellSouth ,  the  company acquired the old AT & T Wireless in 2004 ; SBC later acquired the original AT & T  और  re-branded as `` AT  &  T '' .
Cingular became wholly  स्वामित्व  by AT &  t  in December 2006  as  a result of AT &  t  's  अधिग्रहण  of BellSouth .
In January 2007  ,  Cingular confirmed it would  re-brand  itself under the AT & T name .
Although the  विधिक  corporate name change occurred immediately , for both regulatory  और   brand-awareness  reasons both brands were used in the company 's signage and advertising during a  परिवर्तन  period .
The transition  concluded  in late June , just prior to  the  rollout of  the  Apple iPhone .
On March 20 , 2011 , AT & T Mobility announced its intention to acquire T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom for  $  39 billion .
If it had received government and regulatory approval , AT & T would have had more than 130 million subscribers .
However , the U.S. Department of Justice , the Federal Communications Commission , and AT & T Mobility 's competitors  (   ऐसे  as Sprint Nextel ) opposed the move  on  the grounds that  it  would reduce competition in the cellular communications market .
In December 2011 , in the face of both  सरकारी  and widespread consumer opposition , AT & T withdrew their  प्रस्ताव  to complete the merger  .
Martin Luther King , Jr. ( January 15 ,  1929  – April  4  , 1968  )  was an American  clergyman  , activist ,  और  leader in the African-American Civil Rights Movement .
He is best known for his role in the advancement of civil rights using nonviolent civil disobedience .
King has become  a  national icon in the history of American  प्रगतिवाद  .
A Baptist minister , King became a civil rights activist early in his career .
He led the 1955 Montgomery Bus Boycott  और  helped found the Southern Christian Leadership Conference ( SCLC ) in 1957 , serving as its first president .
साथ   the  SCLC , King led an unsuccessful  संघर्ष  against segregation in Albany ,  जॉर्जिया   ,  in 1962 , and organized nonviolent protests  in  Birmingham , Alabama , that  आकर्षित  national  ध्यान  following television news coverage of the brutal police  जवाब  .
King also helped to organize the 1963 March on Washington , where he delivered  उसके  ``  i  Have  a   सपना  `` speech .
There , he established  उसके  reputation  as  one of  the  greatest orators in American history  .
He also  स्थापित  his reputation  as  a radical , and  became  an object of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's COINTELPRO for  the  rest  of  his life .
FBI agents investigated him for possible communist ties , recorded his extramarital  liaisons   और  reported on them  to   सरकारी  officials , and on one occasion  ,  mailed King a  threatening   बेनाम  letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit  आत्महत्या  .
On October 14 , 1964 , King received the Nobel Peace Prize for combating racial inequality through nonviolence .
In 1965  ,  he and the  sclc   helped  to organize the Selma to Montgomery marches and the following year  ,  he took the movement north to Chicago .
In the final years  of  his life , King expanded his focus to include poverty and the Vietnam War , alienating many  of  his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond  वियतनाम  '' .
King was planning a national occupation of Washington , D.C. , called the Poor People 's Campaign .
King was  assassinated  on April 4  ,  1968 , in Memphis , Tennessee .
His death was followed by riots in many U.S. cities .
Allegations that  जेम्स  Earl  रे  , the man convicted of  हत्या   किंग   ,  had been framed or acted in concert with government agents persisted for decades after the shooting , and the jury of a  1999  civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against King .
King was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the  congressional  Gold Medal posthumously .
Martin Luther King ,  jr.  Day was established as a U.S. federal holiday in 1986 .
Hundreds of streets in  the  U.S. have been renamed in his honor .
A memorial statue on the National Mall was opened to the public in 2011  .
The tiger ( Panthera tigris ) is the largest cat species , reaching a total body length of up to and weighing up to .
It is the third largest land carnivore ( behind only the polar bear and the  भूरा  bear ) .
Its most recognizable feature is a pattern of dark  लंबवत  stripes on  reddish-orange   फर  with a lighter underside .
It  रै  exceptionally stout teeth , and the canines are the longest among living felids with a crown height of as much as or even .
In zoos  ,  tigers have lived  लिये  20 to 26 years  ,  which  भी  seems to be their longevity in the wild .
They are territorial and generally solitary but social animals , often requiring large contiguous areas of habitat that support their prey requirements .
This , coupled  साथ  the fact that they are indigenous to some of the more densely populated places on Earth , has caused significant conflicts with humans .
Tigers  एकबार  ranged widely across Asia , from Turkey in the west to the eastern coast of Russia .
Over the past 100  सालो  , they have lost 93 % of their historic range , and have been extirpated from southwest and  सेंट्रल  Asia , from the  आइलैंड्स  of Java and Bali , and from large areas of  southeast  and Eastern Asia .
Today , they range from the Siberian taiga to open grasslands and tropical mangrove swamps .
The remaining six tiger subspecies have been classified as endangered by IUCN .
The global  जनसांख्यिकी  in the  जंगली  is estimated to number between 3,062 and 3,948  individuals  , down from around 100,000 at the  प्रारंभ  of the  20th  century , with most remaining populations  occurring  in small pockets isolated from each other .
Major reasons for population decline include habitat destruction , habitat fragmentation and poaching .
The  extent  of area occupied  by  tigers is estimated at less than , a 41 % decline from the  क्षेत्रफल  estimated in the mid-1990s .
Tigers are among the most recognisable and popular of the world 's charismatic megafauna .
They have featured prominently in ancient mythology and folklore , and continue to be depicted in modern films and literature .
Tigers appear on many flags , coats of arms ,  और  as mascots for sporting teams .
The Bengal tiger is the national animal of both India  और  Bangladesh .
The simplified internal structure  of  a chloroplast
Overview  of   the  Calvin cycle and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are  रासायनिक  reactions that  बदलें  carbon dioxide and  अन्य  compounds into glucose  .
These reactions  occur  in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
ये  reactions take  the  light-dependent reactions and perform further chemical  प्रक्रियाओं  on  उन्हें  .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively  पुकारा  the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation , reduction reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name , this  प्रक्रम  occurs only when light is available .
Plants do not carry out the Calvin cycle by night .
They , instead , release sucrose into  the  phloem from their starch reserves .
This process happens  जब  light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation  ,  C4 carbon  fixation  , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night  और  release it by  दिन   in  order to make this process work .
A linen handkerchief with pulled thread embroidery around the  किनारे
Linen cloth recovered  इससे  Qumran Cave 1  निकट  the Dead Sea .
Linen ( ) is a textile made from the fibers of the  flax  plant , Linum usitatissimum .
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture , but when it is made into garments , it is valued for its  असाधारण  coolness and freshness in hot weather .
The word `` linen ''  is  of West Germanic origin and cognates with  the  Latin  नाम  for the flax plant linum ,  और  the earlier Greek λινόν ( linon ) .
This  शब्द  history has given rise  to  a number of other terms in English , the most  notable  of which is the English word line , derived from the use  of  a linen ( flax ) thread to determine a straight line  .
Textiles in a linen weave texture  ,  even when made of cotton , hemp and other non-flax fibers are  भी  loosely referred to as `` linen '' .
Such fabrics generally have their own specific names other than linen ; for example , fine cotton yarn in  a  linen-style weave is called Madapolam .
The collective term `` linens  ``  is still often used generically to describe a class of woven and even knitted bed , bath , table  और  kitchen textiles .
the  name linens is  retained  because traditionally  ,  linen was used for many of these items .
In the  पास्ट  , the word `` linens '' was also used to mean lightweight undergarments such as shirts , chemises , waistshirts , lingerie  (  a word also cognate with linen ) , and detachable shirt collars and cuffs  ,  which were historically made almost exclusively out  of  linen .
The inside cloth  परत   of  fine composite clothing garments ( as for example jackets ) was traditionally made of linen , and this is the origin of the word lining .
Linen textiles appear to  be  some  of  the oldest in  the  world :  उनके  history goes back many thousands of years .
fragments  of straw , seeds , fibers ,  yarns  , and various types of fabrics which date  वापस  to about 8000 BC have been found in Swiss lake dwellings .
Dyed flax fibers found in a prehistoric cave in Georgia suggest the use of woven linen fabrics from wild flax may date  वापस  even earlier to 36,000 BP .
Linen was sometimes used as currency in ancient Egypt .
Egyptian mummies were wrapped in linen because it was seen as a symbol of  लाइट  and purity  ,  and as a display of wealth .
कुछ  of  ये  fabrics , woven from hand spun yarns , were very fine for their day  ,  but are  coarse  compared to modern linen .
Today ,  लिनेन  is  प्रायः  an expensive textile , and is produced in relatively small quantities .
It has a long `` staple  ''  ( individual fiber length ) relative to cotton and  अन्य  natural fibers .
Many products are made of linen : aprons , bags , towels  (  swimmers , bath , beach , body and wash towels ) , napkins , bed linens , linen tablecloths , runners , chair covers , and men 's  &  women 's wear .
The FIFA World Cup  ,  often simply the World Cup , is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's national teams of  the  members of Fédération Internationale de  फ़ुटबॉल  Association  (  FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been awarded every four years since  the   inaugural  tournament in  1930   ,  except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because  of  the Second World War .
The current champions  हैं  Spain , who won  the  2010  टूर्नामेंट  .
The current format of the  टूर्नामेंट  involves 32 teams competing for  the  title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period  of  about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding  तीन  years , is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the  मेजबान  nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by eight different national teams .
Brazil have won five times ,  और  they  हैं   the  only team to have played in every tournament  .
The other World Cup winners are Italy , with four titles  ;  Germany , with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay ,  साथ  two titles  प्रत्येक   ;  and England , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup  is  the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match  of  the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in  जर्मनी  .
The next three World Cups will  be  hosted by Brazil  in  2014 , Russia  in  2018 , and Qatar in 2022 .
The is an expansion device for the Wii Remote video game controller for  the  Wii that allows it  to  more accurately capture  जटिल  motion .
According to Nintendo , the  सेंसर  in the device supplements the  accelerometer  and Sensor Bar capabilities  of   the  Wii Remote to enable actions to be rendered identically on the screen in real time .
The Wii 's successor console ,  the   वी  U , supports the Wii MotionPlus and its peripherals in games  जहाँ  use of its touchscreen-built-in primary controller is not necessary .
majulah  Singapura ( Onward Singapore ) is  the  national anthem of  सिंगापुर  .
Composed by Zubir Said in 1958  as  a theme song  लिये  official functions of the City Council of Singapore ,  the  song was selected in 1959 as the island  's  anthem when it attained self-government .
Upon full independence in 1965 , Majulah Singapura was formally adopted as  सिंगापुर  's national anthem .
By law the anthem may only be sung with its original Malay  गीत   ,  although there exist authorized translations of the  गीत  of  the  anthem in Singapore 's three other official languages : English , Mandarin and Tamil .
originally  composed in the key of G major , in 2001 the national anthem was officially relaunched in  the  lower  कुंजी  of F major as this was said to allow for a `` grander and more inspiring arrangement '' .
The national anthem is regularly performed or sung in  स्कूलों  and armed  शक्तियां  camps at ceremonies held at the beginning and/or the end of each day  ,  during which the  नेशनल   ध्वज  is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken .
Singaporeans are especially encouraged to sing the national  गान  on occasions of national celebration or national significance such  as  at the National Day Parade , at  नेशनल  Day observance ceremonies conducted by educational institutions and government departments , and at sporting events at which Singapore teams are participating .
An expedition 's shipwrights building a brigantine , 1541 .
Shipbuilding is the construction of ships and floating vessels .
It normally takes place in  a  specialized  सुविधा  known as  a  shipyard  .
Shipbuilders , also called shipwrights , follow a specialized occupation that traces its roots to before recorded history .
Shipbuilding and ship repairs , both commercial and  सैन्य  ,  हैं  referred to as `` naval engineering '' .
The construction  of  boats is a similar activity called boat building .
The dismantling of ships is  पुकारा   जलयान  breaking .
Wakonda is a town in Clay County , South Dakota , United States .
The population was  321  at the 2010 census .
The following is a list of the  सबसे  populous incorporated places of the United States of America .
As defined by the United States Census Bureau , an `` incorporated  प्लेस  `` includes a variety  of   designations  , including city , town , village , borough , and municipality .
A few exceptional Census Designated  स्थान  ( CDPs ) are also included  in  the Census Bureau 's listing of incorporated places .
Consolidated city-counties represent a distinct type of government that includes the entire population of a county ,  or  county equivalent .
Some consolidated city-counties  ,  however  ,  include multiple incorporated places .
This list presents  तभी  that portion ( or `` balance '' )  of  such consolidated  city-counties  that  हैं   नहीं  a part of another incorporated place .
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities within their defined limits , which does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations .
A different ranking is evident when considering U.S.  महानगर   क्षेत्रफल  populations .
alt=Larger flashcart , shown with small card and U.S. quarter for size
निन्टेंडो  DS  भंडार  devices are devices used to  स्टोर  a licensed developer 's work-in-progress images , homebrew video games and downloaded commercial  खेल   (  since the Nintendo DS is not sold  साथ  a rewritable storage medium ) .
Licensed developers  ,  however , can use a blue Intelligent Systems Nitro Emulator  बक्सा  to flash cards .
These devices are  भी  known as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards '' .
There are two main  वर्ग  of  flashcarts  : older devices which fit in Slot-2 ( the Game Boy Advance Game Pak slot ) and newer devices that fit in Slot-1  (  the DS Game Card slot ) .
Slot-2 (  or  first-generation ) devices have been historically cheaper due to economies of scale ( inherited from their use  साथ  Game Boy Advance ) , but require a booting tool in Slot-1 in order to use the touch  स्क्रीन  and other DS features .
Second-generation devices ( those which only use Slot-1 ) do not work  साथ  GBA homebrew  ,  but became less expensive and easier to use , rivaling many Slot-2 devices in price .
First-generation devices  शामिल  GBA flash cartridges  ,  GBAMP CF , SuperCard , and M3 .
Second-generation devices include R4 Revolution , CycloDS , G6  रियल  and DS-X .
The  भंडार  device either contains flash  मेमोरी  or a slot for a memory card to store homebrew  .
Storage devices with a memory-card  स्लॉट  usually have more storage capacity than flash-memory devices .
Although  flash-memory  capacity is usually measured in megabits ( Mb ) , memory-card capacity  is  usually measured in megabytes  (  MB ) (  जहाँ  8 Mb is 1 MB ) .
storage-device  brands differ in their support for homebrew ; DS and Game  लड़के  Advance ROMs ; special features  (  such as ability to play media files )  ;  physical size and cost .
Strictly speaking , a storage device is not necessary for DS with FlashMe installed because homebrew can be  भेजा  to the DS using WMB  .
However , this is not an easily-portable method because the DS needs to be  भीतर   दायरा   of  a suitable Wi-Fi card .
हैं  American people of Japanese  विरासत   .
Japanese Americans have historically been among  the  three largest Asian American communities  ,  but in recent decades ,  it   रै  become the sixth largest group at roughly  1,304,286  , including those of mixed-race  or   mixed-ethnicity  .
In  the  2010  जनसांख्यिकी  , the largest Japanese  अमरीकी  communities were found in California with 272,528 , Hawaii with 185,502 , New York  साथ  37,780  ,  Washington with 35,008 , and Illinois with  17,542  .
Southern California has the largest Japanese-American  जनसांख्यिकी  in North America .
200px
This is a comprehensive listing which highlights significant achievements and milestones based upon Billboard magazine  's  singles  चार्ट  , most notably the Billboard Hot 100 .
This list spans from the issue dated January 1 , 1955 to present .
the  Billboard Hot 100  began  with  the  issue dated August 4 , 1958 ,  और  is currently the standard popular music chart in the United States .
Prior to the creation  of  the Hot 100 , Billboard published four singles charts : `` Best Sellers in Stores '' , `` Most Played by Jockeys '' , `` Most Played in Jukeboxes '' and ``  the  Top 100 '' .
These charts , which ranged from  20  to 100  स्लॉट  , were phased out at different times between 1957 and 1958 .
Though technically  नहीं  part of the Hot 100  चार्ट  history , their data is included for computational purposes  ,  and to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations .
All  वस्तुएं  listed below are from the Hot 100 era , unless otherwise noted  (  pre-Hot 100 charts ) .
v  is an American science fiction television series that ran for two  सीज़न  on ABC  ,  from  नवम्बर  3 , 2009 to March 15 , 2011 .
A remake of the 1983 miniseries  निर्मित  by Kenneth Johnson , the new  श्रेणी  chronicles the arrival on  धरती  of a technologically advanced alien species which ostensibly comes in peace  ,  but  दरअसल  has sinister motives .
V stars  मुरैना  Baccarin , Lourdes Benedicto , Morris Chestnut , Joel Gretsch , Logan Huffman , Charles  mesure  ,  एलिज़ाबेथ  Mitchell , Laura Vandervoort and Scott Wolf , and was executive produced by Scott Rosenbaum , Yves Simoneau , Scott  पीटर्स  , and Jace Hall .
The series was produced by  the  Scott Peters Company ,  hdfilms   और  Warner Bros. Television .
geocaching  is an outdoor recreational activity ,  in  which  the  participants use a  वैश्विक  Positioning  प्रणाली  ( GPS ) receiver or mobile device and other navigational techniques to hide and seek containers , called `` geocaches '' or `` caches  ''  , anywhere in the world .
A typical cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook where the geocacher enters the date they found  it  and signs it with their  स्थापित  code  नाम  .
After signing into the log , the cache must be placed back exactly where the person found it .
Larger containers such as plastic storage containers ( Tupperware or similar ) or ammunition boxes can  भी  contain items  लिये   व्यापार  , usually toys or trinkets of little value  .
Geocaching shares many aspects  साथ  benchmarking , trigpointing , orienteering , treasure-hunting , letterboxing , and waymarking .
Boogie Down Productions  थी  a hip hop group that was originally composed of KRS-One , D-Nice , and DJ Scott La Rock .
dj  Scott  la  Rock was murdered on August 27 , 1987 ,  महीने  after the  रिलीज  of BDP 's debut album  ,  Criminal Minded .
The name of the group , Boogie  bas  , derives from a nickname  लिये  the South Bronx section of The Bronx  ,  one of the five boroughs of New York City .
The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall reggae and hip hop music and  उनके  debut LP Criminal Minded  contained  frank descriptions of life in the South Bronx of the late  1980s  thus setting the stage for what would eventually become gangsta rap .
A municipal bond is a bond issued by a local government , or their agencies .
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include states , cities , counties , redevelopment agencies , special-purpose  जिले  , school districts , public utility districts , publicly owned airports and seaports , and  कोई  other governmental entity ( or group of governments ) at or below  the  state level  .
Municipal bonds may be general  दायित्वों  of the issuer or secured by specified revenues .
In the  संयुक्त  States ,  ब्याज  income  प्राप्त  by holders of municipal bonds is often exempt from the federal income tax and from the  आय  tax  of  the  राज्य  in which they are issued , although municipal bonds issued for certain purposes may not be tax exempt .
Unlike  नई  issue stocks that are brought  to  market with price restrictions until  the  deal is sold , municipal bonds are free to  व्यापार  at any time once they are  खरीदा  by the investor .
Professional traders  regularly  trade and retrade the same  bonds  several times a  सप्ताह  .
``  Gim me Some Lovin ' '' is a song written by Steve Winwood , Spencer Davis and Muff  winwood  , and originally performed by  the  Spencer Davis Group .
The basic  रिफ  of the song was  उधार  from the Homer Banks song  ``  ( Ai n't That ) A  लॉट  of Love '' , written by Banks  और  Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker .
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' was a UK  #  2 in the Autumn of 1966 and a US # 7 .
The song is ranked # 247 on the Rolling Stone magazine 's list of  the  500 Greatest Songs of All  समय  .
The version issued in the UK (  और  probably most of Europe ) is different from  कि  issued  in  the US on the United Artists label , being slower , and lacking the backing vocals and `` live sounding '' performance found on the US single .
( The US version  रै  more often been used on reissue  cds   ,  even those coming from  यूरोपीय  . )
The single features  the  sound of the Hammond B-3 organ  .
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb )  is  an online database of information related to films , television  कार्यक्रम  , and video games .
This  शामिल  actors , production crew personnel ,  और  fictional characters featured in these three visual entertainment media  .
It is one  of   the  most popular online entertainment destinations , with over 100 million unique users each month and a solid  और  rapidly growing mobile presence .
IMDb was launched on October 17 , 1990 , and in 1998 was acquired by Amazon.com .
As of April 27 , 2013 , IMDb had 2,503,783 titles ( includes episodes ) and 5,192,493 personalities in  इसके  database , as well as 43 million registered users .
The website has an  एलेक्सा  rank of 48  .
Fibre Channel Host Bus Adapter ( 64-bit PCI-X card )
SCSI  मेजबान  Bus Adapter ( 16-bit ISA card )
In computer hardware ,  a  host controller , host adapter , or  मेजबान   बस  adapter ( HBA ) connects a host system ( the computer ) to other network and storage devices .
The  शर्तें  are primarily used  to  refer to devices  लिये  connecting  scsi  , Fibre  चैनल   और  eSATA devices .
However , devices for connecting to IDE ,  ईथरनेट  , FireWire , USB and other systems may  भी  be called host  adapters  .
Recently ,  the  advent of iSCSI  और  Fibre Channel  over  Ethernet has brought  परिचय  Ethernet HBAs , which are  अलग  from Ethernet NICs in that they include TCP Offload Engines .
There are also converged HBAs that support both Ethernet and Fibre Channel called Converged Network Adapters ( CNAs ) .
Cashmere Scarves
Modern men 's  cashmere  sweaters  लिये  sale .
Cashmere wool , usually simply known as cashmere , is a  रेशा  obtained from Cashmere goats and other types of goat .
The word cashmere derives from an  बूढ़ा  spelling of  काश्मीर  .
cashmere  is fine in texture , strong , light  ,  and soft .
Garments made from it provide excellent  इन्सुलेशन  .
In the  संयुक्त  States , under the U.S . Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 , as amended  ,  ( 15 Uction 68b ( a )  (  6 ) ) , states that a wool or textile product may not be labeled as  containing  cashmere unless:
such wool product is the fine ( dehaired ) undercoat fibers produced by a cashmere goat  (  Capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average diameter of the fiber of such wool product  करता  not exceed 19 microns ; and
such wool product does not contain more than 3 percent  (  by weight ) of cashmere fibers with average diameters that exceed 30 microns .
The  औसत  fiber diameter may be subject to a coefficient  of  variation around the mean that shall not  exceed  24 percent .
Jennifer Convertibles Inc. is the owner and  licensor  of sofabed and leather specialty retail  स्टोर्स  in the United States , with stores located throughout the Eastern seaboard  ,  in the  मिडवेस्ट  , on the West Coast and in the Southwest .
The company was founded in 1975 and is based in Woodbury , New York .
On July 19  ,  2010 , the company announced that it had  दायर  for bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial losses '' .
According to Furniture Today the company was number 48 among furniture retailers with US $ 114 million in sales for the  साल  ending August 29 , 2009 .
It subsequently emerged from Chapter 11 under the control of  इसके  major supplier , the Haining Mengnu Group .
Egg roll is a term used for many different foods around the world .
2__Egg_roll  __  Varieties of egg rolls are found in mainland China , many Chinese-speaking  regions  of Asia , and Chinese immigrant communities around the world .
Egg rolls as referred to in China .
In Guangdong and Hong Kong , egg roll usually refers to biscuit roll .
This is a type of biscuit .
The ingredient included egg , flour and sugar .
Egg roll also is a dish in Canton and Hong Kong  ,  this is  प्रायः  made with  सब्ज़ी  .
Within China egg rolls are eaten predominantly in the southeast and are not  as  commonly  खपत  in  the  north and  पश्चिमी  parts of China .
In American Chinese  भोजन  , an egg roll is a savory dish typically served as an appetizer .
It  is  usually stuffed with chicken  ,  pork or shrimp , cabbage , carrots , tomatoes , bean sprouts and  अन्य   सब्जियां  , and then deep fried .
This variety of the egg roll is very common and popular , across even  क्षेत्रीय  varieties of American Chinese food , and is often included as part of a `` combination platter '' .
In Montreal  ,   कनाडा  , open-ended eggrolls are a Jewish-Chinese fusion dish .
They can be either kosher certified or merely kosher style .
Pain and suffering is the legal term for the physical and emotional stress caused from an  चोट  ( see also pain and suffering ) .
Some damages that might be under this category would be  :  aches  ,   अस्थाई  and  स्थाई  limitations on activity , potential shortening of life , depression or scarring .
When filing a lawsuit as a  परिणाम  of an injury , it is common  लिये  someone  to  seek  धन  both in compensation for actual money that is lost and  लिये  the pain and stress associated with virtually any injury .
In a suit , pain and suffering  is  part of the ``  सामान्य   क्षतिपूर्ति  '' section of the claimant  's   अर्जी  , or , alternatively , it is an  तत्व  of `` compensatory '' non-economic damages that allows recovery for the mental anguish and/or physical pain endured by the claimant as a result of injury for which the plaintiff seeks  परितोष   .
Apart from money damages awarded in trial ,  धन  damages  हैं  also given  informally  outside the judicial system  in  mediations  ,  arbitration (  दोनो  of which may be  अदालत  annexed or non litigated claims ) as well  as  in routine insurance settlements .
Individual claimants or those  represented  by lawyers often present demands to insurers to  settle  for  धन  .
These demand for bodily injury compensation monies often set out damages that are similarly used in the court litigated pleadings .
मांगे  are usually written summaries of a claimant 's medical care and the facts which resulted  in  the injury .
Sample of a Medallion  हस्ताक्षर  guarantee  stampin
the United States and Canada , a medallion signature guarantee is a  खास  signature  गारंटी  for  the  transfer of securities  .
It is a guarantee by the  transferring  financial institution  कि  the signature is genuine and the financial institution accepts liability  लिये  any forgery .
Signature guarantees protect shareholders by  preventing  unauthorized transfers and possible investor losses .
They also limit the liability of the transfer agent who accepts the certificates .
Different institutions  have  different policies as to what type of identification they require to provide the guarantee and whether they charge a fee  लिये  such service  (  usually  नाममात्र  if any ) .
Most institutions will not guarantee a signature of someone who has not already been their customer .
A medallion signature guarantee is not the same as an  acknowledgment  by a notary public , in the sense  कि  a  ``  signature guarantee '' is a certification by the institution that the signature is authentic , and an acknowledgment is a certification by a notary public attesting that  the  signer signed a document voluntarily .
Some banks may  no  longer provide this service ,  however  , many still do as well as other financial institutions such as a Savings and Loans and Credit Unions .
At their sole discretion  ,  these institutions may still  मनाही  to provide the Medallion Signature Guarantees .
When US citizens are  विदेश  , some financial institutions may accept United  राज्य  Embassy Seals , in place of the Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp .
Pacific  इलेक्ट्रिक  Railway streetcars  stacked  at a junkyard on Terminal Island , Los Angeles County ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  ,  कूच   1956
The General Motors streetcar conspiracy ( also known  as   the  Great American streetcar scandal ) refers to allegations and convictions in relation to a program by General Motors  (  GM ) and other companies  जो  purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric train systems in many American cities .
Between 1936 and 1950 , National City Lines and Pacific  नगर  Lines —with investment from GM , Firestone Tire , Standard Oil of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , Phillips Petroleum ,  mack  Trucks , and the Federal Engineering Corporation—bought over 100 electric surface-traction systems in 45  शहरों  including Baltimore , Newark , Los Angeles , New York City , Oakland and San Diego  और  converted them  into  bus operation .
Several of the companies involved were convicted  in  1949 of conspiracy  to  monopolize interstate commerce but  यहूद  acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these companies .
Some suggest that this program played a key role  in  the decline of public transit  in  cities across the United  राज्य   ;  notably Edwin J. Quinby , who first drew attention to the program in 1946 , and then Bradford C. Snell , an anti-trust attorney for the United States Senate whose controversial  1974   गवाही  to a Senate inquiry brought the issue to national awareness .
Both Quinby and Snell argued  कि   the  deliberate destruction  of  streetcars was part of a larger strategy to push the  संयुक्त  States into  ऑटोमोबाइल  dependency .
Others say  कि  independent economic factors brought about changes in the transit system , including the Great Depression , the Public Utility Holding  कम्पनी  Act  of  1935 , labor unrest , market forces , rapidly increasing traffic congestion , urban sprawl ,  कराधान  policies that favored private vehicle ownership , and general enthusiasm  लिये  the automobile .
One writer on  the  subject has suggested that Snell and others fell into simplistic conspiracy theory thinking , bordering  on  paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly , GM waged a war on electric traction .
it  was indeed an all out assault , but by no means the single reason for  the  failure of rapid transit .
Also , it is  बस  as clear that actions and inactions by government contributed significantly  to  the elimination of electric traction . ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving effective rail-based urban transport systems  आधारित  on streetcars or trams , including Newark , Philadelphia , San Francisco ,  पिट्सबर्ग  , and Boston ; others are re-introducing them .
The story has been explored several times in  छपाई  , film and other media , notably in Who  framed  Roger  खरगोश  , Taken for  a  Ride and The End of Suburbia .
Corwin House  ,  Salem , Massachusetts , built ca . 1660 , First Period English
American  औपनिवेशिक  architecture includes several building design styles associated  साथ  the  औपनिवेशिक  period of the United States , including First Period English (  late-medieval  ) ,  फ्रेंच  Colonial , Spanish  औपनिवेशिक  , Dutch Colonial and Georgian .
These  शैलियाँ  are associated  साथ  the houses ,  चर्च   और  government buildings of the period from about 1600 through  the  19th century .
`` In the Mood '' is a big band era # 1 hit recorded by American bandleader Glenn  मिलर  .
It topped the charts in 1940 in  the  U.S. and one year later was featured in  the  movie Sun Valley Serenade .
In  1999  ,  नेशनल  Public Radio ( NPR ) included the 1939 Glenn Miller  रिकॉर्डिंग  on RCA Bluebird on  the  NPR 100 , the  सूची   of  `` The 100 most important American  musical   works  of the  20th  century '' .
NEPTUNE logo
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s  पहला  regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs directly into the Internet .
चूंकि  December 2009 , it  रै  allowed people to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean scientists run deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world .
Along with  इसके  sister  प्रोजेक्ट  , VENUS , NEPTUNE offers a unique approach to ocean science .
Traditionally , ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises  or  space-based satellites to carry  आउट  their research , while the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated crawler .
A gramophone record , commonly known  as  a phonograph record (  in  American  अंग्रेज़ी  ) , vinyl  रिकार्ड  ( in reference to vinyl , the  सामग्री  most commonly used after about 1950 ) , or  colloquially   ,   ``   a  record '' , is an analog sound storage medium consisting of a flat disc  साथ  an inscribed  ,  modulated spiral groove .
The groove usually starts near the periphery and ends near the center of the  डिस्क  .
Phonograph records are  generally  described by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch , 10-inch , 7-inch , etc . ) , the rotational speed at which they are played ( `` 33 rpm `` , `` 78 '' , `` 45 '' , etc . ) , their time capacity ( `` long playing '' ) , their reproductive accuracy , or  ``  fidelity `` ( `` high fidelity '' , `` Orthophonic '' , `` full-range '' , etc . ) , and the number of channels of audio provided (  ``  mono `` , `` stereo  ``   ,  `` quadraphonic `` , etc . ) .
Phonograph records were  the  primary medium used for music reproduction for most of the 20th  सदी  , replacing  the  phonograph cylinder , with which it  था  co-existed , by the 1920s .
By  the   लेट  1980s , digital  मीडिया  had  gained  a larger market share ,  और  the vinyl record left the  मुख्यधारा  in 1991 .
They continue to  be  manufactured and sold in the  21st  century .
In 2008 , nearly 2.9 million units shipped , the most in any year since 1998  और  the format  रै  continued to slowly regain popularity .
They are especially used by DJs  और  audiophiles for many types of music .
as  of 2013 , vinyl records continue to be used for distribution .
Grassland  in  the Santa  रोजा  Plateau , California .
Grassland in the Antelope Valley , California
the  Konza tallgrass  प्रेयरी  in the Flint Hills of  northeastern  Kansas .
a  grassland in the Philippines .
An Inner Mongolian grassland  in  the People 's Republic of China
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is dominated by  grasses  (  पोएसी  ) ,  however  sedge ( Cyperaceae ) and rush ( Juncaceae ) families can also be found .
Grasslands occur naturally on all continents except Antarctica .
In temperate latitudes , such as northwestern  यूरोपीय   और  the Great Plains and California in North America , native  grasslands   हैं  dominated by perennial bunch grass species , whereas in  warmer  climates annual species form a greater component of the vegetation .
Grasslands  हैं  found in most ecoregions of the Earth .
For example there are five terrestrial  ecoregion   classifications  ( subdivisions ) of the temperate grasslands , savannas , and shrublands  बायोम  ( '  ecosystem  ' )  ,  which is one of eight terrestrial  ecozones  of the Earth 's surface .
Henna ( Lawsonia inermis , also called henna tree ) or Hina is a flowering plant , the  एकमात्र  species in the genus Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae  .
The English  नाम   ``  henna '' comes from the Arabic ( ALA-LC : ḥinnāʾ /  सुनाया  ) or colloquially , loosely pronounced .
The name is also used for dye preparations derived from the plant , and for the  आर्ट  of temporary tattooing based on  those  dyes .
Henna has been used since antiquity to dye skin , hair ,  और  fingernails ,  as  well as fabrics including Silk , wool and leather .
Additionally , the name is misused for other skin and hair dyes , such as black  हिना  or neutral henna , which are not derived from the plant .
A thin film is  a  layer of material ranging from fractions of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several micrometers in  मोटाई  .
Electronic semiconductor devices and optical coatings are the main applications  लाभकारी  from  thin-film  construction .
A familiar application of thin films is the household mirror , which typically has  a  thin  मेटल  coating on the back of a sheet of glass to form a reflective interface .
The process of  silvering  was once commonly used to produce mirrors .
a  very-thin-film  कोटिंग  ( less than  a   nanometer  thick ) is used to  उपज  two-way mirrors  .
The performance of  ऑप्टिकल   coatings  (  e.g  . antireflective , or AR , coatings ) are typically enhanced when the thin-film coating consists of multiple layers having varying thicknesses and refractive indices .
Similarly , a periodic structure of alternating thin  films   of  different materials may collectively  रूप  a so-called superlattice which  कारनामे  the phenomenon of quantum confinement by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions .
Work is being done with ferromagnetic and ferroelectric thin films for use as computer memory .
It  is  also being applied to pharmaceuticals ,  via  thin-film drug delivery .
Thin-films are used to produce thin-film batteries .
Thin films are also  प्रयुक्त   in  dye-sensitized solar cells .
Ceramic thin films are in wide use .
The relatively high hardness and inertness  of  ceramic materials make this type of thin coating of interest for protection  of  substrate  सामग्री  against corrosion , oxidation and wear .
In particular ,  the  use of  ऐसे  coatings on  कटिंग  tools can extend the life of these items by several orders of magnitude .
Research is  होने  done on a new class of thin-film inorganic oxide materials , called  amorphous  heavy-metal cation multicomponent oxides  ,  which could be used to make transparent transistors that are inexpensive , stable , and environmentally benign .
Gears of War is a military science fiction third-person shooter video game developed by Epic  खेल  and published by Microsoft Game Studios .
It  थी  initially  released  as an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 in November 2005  in  North America , Australia , and most of Europe and included  a   ``  Limited Collector  's  Edition '' with added content and an art book titled Destroyed  सौंदर्य  that detailed much of the  खेल  's back-story .
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity , a Microsoft Windows version of the game was developed in conjunction with People Can Fly and released a year later , featuring new content including additional  अभियान  levels , a new multiplayer game mode , and Games for Windows Live functionality .
The game focuses on the  सैनिकों  of Delta Squad as  वे  wield a desperate , last-ditch attempt to save the remaining human inhabitants  of   the  fictional planet Sera from a relentless and seemingly unstoppable  subterranean  enemy known as the Locust Horde .
The player assumes  the  role of Marcus Fenix ( but can also play as Dominic Santiago ) , a former prisoner and war-hardened soldier .
The game is based on the use of cover and strategic fire for the player to advance through the scenarios ; a second player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to  assist   .
The game also features several online multiplayer game modes for up to eight players .
Gears of War sold over three million copies in  बस  ten weeks and was the fastest-selling video game of 2005 as well  as  the second-most played game over Xbox Live during .
It currently stands as the 5th best selling Xbox 360 game of  सब  time  .
The game has since sold over five million copies by September 2008 .
The game was  खूब  received by critics , who praised its gameplay and detailed visuals , and it  जीती  several `` Game of the Year '' awards in 2006  .
the  success of the game has led to the development  of  the Gears of War franchise , including the 2008 sequel Gears of War 2 and its follow-up , Gears  of  War  3  ,  जिससे  was released on September 20 ,  2011  , after having initially been set  to   have  been released on April 5 , 2011 , the date upon which Epic Games ' Cliff Bleszinski was a guest on Late  रात्रि  with  jimmy  Fallon .
Adaptations to  किताबे  , comics , as well as a feature  फिल्मी   हैं  to be expected .
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is a 1943 novel written by Betty Smith .
The story focuses  on  an Irish-American family in Williamsburg  ,  Brooklyn , New York City .
The novel is set in the first and second decades  of  the 20th century .
The book was  an  immense success .
The main metaphor of the book is the hardy Tree of Heaven , native  to   चीन  and  ताईवान  ,  अभी  considered invasive ,  और  common in the vacant lots of New York City .
World map with the intertropical zone highlighted in red .
Tropical climate zones of  the  Earth where all twelve months have mean temperatures  ऊपर   18  °C ( 64 °F  )  .
The tropics is a region of the Earth surrounding  the  Equator  .
It is limited in latitude by the Tropic of Cancer in  the  northern hemisphere  at  approximately N and the Tropic of Capricorn in the southern hemisphere at S ; these latitudes correspond  to  the axial tilt of the Earth .
The tropics  हैं  also referred to as the tropical zone and the torrid zone ( see geographical zone  )   .
the  tropics  शामिल  all the areas on the  धरती  where the  सूर्य  reaches a point directly overhead at least once during  the  solar  साल  .
The tropics are distinguished  इससे  the other climatic  और  biomatic regions of Earth , the middle latitudes and the polar regions on either side of the equatorial zone .
For the  inxs  song , see What You Need ( song ) .
`` What You Need '' is an episode of the American television anthology series The Twilight  मण्डल  .
It is based on the short  स्टोरी   of  the same name  by  Lewis Padgett ( Henry Kuttner and C. L. Moore ) .
PlayhouseSquare , in the Cleveland Theater  ज़िला  in downtown Cleveland , Ohio , is the second-largest theater complex in the  संयुक्त  States ,  दूसरी  only  to  New York City 's Lincoln Center  )  .
Constructed in a span of 19 months  in  the early 1920s , the theaters were subsequently closed down , but were revived  through  a grassroots effort .
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a new  era  of downtown revitalization in Cleveland , and was called `` one of the top ten successes in Cleveland history  .  ''
The driver and passenger front airbags , after having been deployed , in  a  British Peugeot 306 car .
An airbag is a vehicle safety device .
It is an occupant restraint system consisting of a flexible fabric envelope or cushion designed to inflate  rapidly  during an automobile collision .
Its purpose is to cushion occupants during a crash and provide protection to their bodies when they strike interior objects such as the steering wheel or a  खिड़की  .
Modern vehicles may contain multiple airbag  मौड्यूल  in various  पक्ष  and frontal locations of the passenger  seating  positions , and sensors may deploy one or more  airbags   in  an impact zone at variable rates  आधारित  on the  प्रकार  , angle  और  severity  of  impact ;  the  airbag is designed to only inflate in moderate to severe frontal  क्रैश  .
Airbags are normally designed with  the  intention of supplementing the protection of an occupant who  is  correctly restrained with a seatbelt .
Most designs are inflated through pyrotechnic means and  can  only  be  operated once  .
Newer side-impact airbag modules consist of compressed  एयर  cylinders that are triggered in the event of  a  side impact vehicle impact .
The first commercial designs were introduced in passenger  ऑटोमोबाइल  during the 1970s with  सीमित  success .
व्यापक  commercial adoption of  airbags  occurred in many markets during the  लेट  1980s and early 1990s with a driver airbag , and a front passenger airbag  as  well on some cars ;  और  many modern vehicles now include four or more units .
IRS tax forms are used for taxpayers and tax-exempt organizations to report financial information to the Internal Revenue  सेवा   (  IRS ) of  the  United States  .
They are used to report income , calculate taxes to  be  paid to the  संघीय  government  of  the United States , and  ज़ाहिर   अन्य  information as required by the Internal Revenue  कोड  ( IRC  )   .
वहीँ  are over 800  विभिन्न  forms and schedules .
The best-known of these  is  Form 1040 used by individuals .
In the United  राज्य  , driver 's licenses are issued by  प्रत्येक  individual state ( including Washington , D.C. and  territories  ) , rather than  the  federal government because of the political concept of federalism .
Drivers are normally required to obtain a license from their  राज्य  of residence and all states recognize  प्रत्येक  other 's licenses for temporary visitors subject to normal age  आवश्यकताएँ  .
A state may also suspend an individual 's  ड्राइविंग  privilege within its borders for traffic violations .
Many states share a common system of license classes ,  साथ  some  अपवाद  , and commercial license  वर्ग   हैं  standardized by federal regulation at 49 CFR  भाग  383 .
China has been  the  source of many inventions , including the Four Great Inventions : papermaking , the compass , gunpowder , and printing  (  both woodblock and movable type ) .
The list below contains these  और  other inventions .
The Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics  ,   hydraulics  , and mathematics applied  to  horology , metallurgy , astronomy , agriculture , engineering  ,  music theory , craftsmanship ,  nautics  , and warfare .
By  the  Warring States Period ( 403–221 BC ) , they had advanced metallurgic technology , including the blast  भट्टी  and cupola furnace , while  the   finery  forge and puddling process were  ज्ञात  by the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 )  .
A sophisticated economic system in China gave birth to inventions  ऐसे  as  पेपर  money during the Song Dynasty ( 960–1279 ) .
the  invention of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an array  of  inventions such as the fire lance , land mine , naval mine , hand cannon ,  exploding  cannonballs , multistage rocket , and rocket bombs with  aerodynamic  wings and explosive payloads .
With the  navigational  aid of the 11th-century compass and ability to steer at high sea  साथ  the 1st-century  sternpost  rudder , premodern Chinese sailors sailed as far as East  अफ़्रीकी  and Egypt  .
In water-powered clockworks ,  the   premodern  Chinese had used the escapement mechanism since the 8th century  और  the endless power-transmitting  कड़ी  drive in the 11th  सदी  .
They also made large mechanical puppet theaters driven by waterwheels and carriage  पहियों  and wine-serving automatons driven by  चप्पू   व्हील  boats .
The  contemporaneous  Peiligang and Pengtoushan cultures represent the oldest Neolithic cultures of China and were formed around  7000  BC .
Some of the  पहला  inventions of Neolithic , prehistoric China include  semilunar  and rectangular  स्टोन  knives ,  स्टोन  hoes  और  spades , the  cultivation  of millet , rice and the soybean , the refinement  of  sericulture , the building of  rammed  earth structures with lime -plastered house floors , the creation of the potter 's  व्हील  , the  सृष्टि  of pottery with cord-mat-basket designs , the creation  of  pottery tripods and pottery steamers  ,  and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of  भविष्यवाणी   .
Francesca Bray argues that  the  domestication of the ox and  भैंस  during the Longshan culture ( c. 3000–c . 2000 BC )  काल  , the absence of Longshan-era irrigation or high-yield crops , full  प्रमाण  of Longshan cultivation of  dry-land  cereal crops which gave high yields `` only when the soil was carefully cultivated , '' suggest that the plow  थी  known at least by the Longshan culture period and explains the high agricultural production yields  जिससे  allowed the rise of Chinese civilization during the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c . 1050 BC ) .
With later inventions such as the multiple-tube  बीज  drill and  भारी  moldboard iron plow , China 's  agricultural  output could sustain a much larger  जनसांख्यिकी   .
For the purposes of this list , inventions are regarded as technological firsts developed in China ,  और  as such does not include foreign technologies which the  चाइनीज  acquired through  सम्पर्क  , such  as  the windmill from the Middle East or the telescope from Early modern Europe .
It  भी  does not include technologies developed elsewhere and later invented separately by the  चाइनीज  , such as the  ओडोमीटर  and chain pump .
Scientific , mathematic or  प्राकृतिक  discoveries , changes in minor concepts of  डिज़ाइन  or style and artistic innovations can not be  regarded  as inventions and  do  not appear on  the  list .
Gross domestic product in 2011 US dollars per capita , adjusted for inflation and  खरीदना  power parity  (  log scale ) from 1860 to 2011 , with population (  डिस्क  area ) for the US ( yellow ) , UK ( orange  )  , Japan ( red ) , China  (  red ) , and India (  ब्लू  ) .
Globalization ( or globalisation—see  स्पेलिंग  differences ) is  the  process of international integration arising from the interchange of world views , products ,  विचार  , and other aspects of culture .
Put in simple terms , globalization refers to processes that promote world-wide exchanges of national and cultural resources .
Advances in transportation and  दूरसंचार  infrastructure , including the rise of the Internet , are major factors  in  globalization , generating  further  interdependence of  आर्थिक  and cultural activities .
हालांकि  several scholars place the origins of globalization in modern times , others trace its history long before the European age of discovery and  voyages  to the New World .
कुछ  even trace the origins to the third millennium BCE .
Since the beginning of the 20th century ,  the  pace of globalization has intensified at a rapid rate , especially during the Post  ठंडा  War era .
The term globalization has been  in  increasing use since the mid-1980s and especially since the mid-1990s .
In 2000 , the International  मौद्रिक  Fund ( IMF )  पहचाना  four basic aspects of  वैश्वीकरण  : trade and transactions , capital and investment movements , migration and  गति   of  people  और  the dissemination of knowledge  .
Further , environmental challenges  ऐसे  as  जलवायु  change  ,  cross-boundary  जल  and air pollution , and over-fishing of the ocean are  linked  with globalization .
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by business and work organization ,  अर्थशास्त्र  , socio-cultural resources , and the  प्राकृतिक  environment .
the  Replacements is a 2000 American sports comedy film directed  by  Howard Deutch .
It stars Keanu Reeves , Gene  hackman   ,  and Brooke Langton .
An American Airlines  वायुयान  takes off from Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport .
This airport is the airline  's  largest hub .
American Airlines flies to 79 domestic destinations and 78 international destinations in 48 countries .
( as of December 2012 )
The list includes the city , country , the codes of the International Air  हस्तांतरण  Association ( IATA airport code ) and the International Civil Aviation  संगठन  ( ICAO  विमानक्षेत्र  code ) , and  the  airport 's  नाम  , with the airline 's hubs , focus cities and seasonal destinations marked .
The list also contains destinations  no  longer served by the  एयरलाइन  , which  हैं  marked as terminated destinations .
It does not include destinations served for American Airlines by  इसके  regional affiliates American Eagle Airlines  ,  Executive Airlines , and AmericanConnection .
``  day-o   (  The Banana Boat Song ) '' is  a  traditional Jamaican mento folk song , the best-known version of which was  सुंग  by Harry Belafonte and  an  alternate version  interspersed  with another Jamaican  folksong  , Hill and Gully Rider  ,  by Dame Shirley Bassey .
Despite the song 's mento influences , `` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song  )  ''  is   widely  known as an example of calypso music .
it  is a work song , from the point of view of dock workers working the night shift loading bananas onto ships .
Daylight has  आइये  , the shift is over and they want their work  to  be counted up so that they can go home .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war  केंद्रित  in  यूरोपीय  that  began  on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was  predominantly  called the World War  or  the  ग्रेट  War from its occurrence until the  प्रारंभ  of World War II  in  1939 , and  the  First World War or World  युद्ध  I thereafter .
it  involved all the world 's great powers , which were  समवेत  in two opposing alliances : the Allies (  आधारित  on the Triple Entente of  the  United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally  the  Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken  the  offensive  विरूद्ध  the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded  as  more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States  joined  the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel , including 60 million Europeans , were mobilised in one of the largest wars  in  history .
More than 9  लाख  combatants were killed ,  largely  because of  technological  advancements  कि  led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in  सुरक्षा  or mobility  .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world  इतिहास   ,  subsequently paving the  रास्ता  for various political changes  ,  such as revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes  of  the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign  नीतियों  of the great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to  the  throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to  the   किंगडम  of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over the previous decades  यहूद  invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers were at war and , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as  तैयारी   लिये  the  आक्रमण  of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the  रास्ता  to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called  चमत्कार  of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a  स्थिर  battle of attrition with a trench line that  बदला  little until  1917  .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army  थी  successful against the  austro-hungarians  ,  लकिन  was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by  the  Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
बाद  a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back the Germans  in  a series of  कामयाब  offensives and American forces began entering  the  trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in victory for the Allies .
Events on the home fronts were as  उग्र  as on the battle fronts , as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war  .
by  the end of the  युद्ध  , four major imperial  powers—the  German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
the  successor states of the former two lost  a  great amount of territory ,  जबकि  the  latter  two were dismantled  entirely   .
The map of central  यूरोपीय  was redrawn  into   अनेक  smaller states .
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict .
the  European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires ,  the  repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing  to  World War II .
Nurse Jackie is an American  श्रेणी  that premiered on June 8  ,  2009  ,   on  Showtime , Movie Central and The  फिल्म   संजाल  .
The series stars Edie Falco as the title character Jackie Peyton , an emergency department nurse at All Saints ' Hospital in New York City .
For Jackie , `` Every  दिन  is a high wire act of juggling  मरीजों  , doctors , fellow nurses  और  her own  indiscretions  . ''
Keeping Up with the Kardashians  (  often referred to simply as The Kardashians ) is an  अमरीकी   वास्तविकता  television series that premiered on October 14 , 2007 , on E ! .
It follows the  जीवनदान   of   the  Kardashian/Jenner family  ,   सहित  sisters Kourtney , Kim , and Khloé Kardashian .
The series ' success has led to the spin-offs Kourtney and Kim Take New York , Khloé  &  Lamar , Kourtney and Khloé Take Miami  ,  and Kourtney  और  Kim Take Miami .
Afghanistan ( ; ; ) , officially the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan , is a  landlocked  sovereign state forming part of  दक्षिण  Asia , Central Asia , and to some  extent  Western Asia .
it  has a population of  around  30 million inhabiting an area of approximately , making it  the  42nd most  populous  and 41st  largest  nation in the world .
It is  bordered  by Pakistan  in  the south and the east , Iran in the west , Turkmenistan , Uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the north , and China in the far northeast .
Afghanistan  रै  been an ancient focal point of the  रेशा  Road and human migration .
Archaeologists have  मिला  evidence of  इंसान  habitation from as far back as the Middle Paleolithic .
Urban civilization may have begun in the area as early as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE .
Sitting at an important geostrategic location that connects the Middle East culture with Central  एशिया  and the Indian subcontinent , the land has been  घर  to various peoples through the ages and  witnessed  many military campaigns , notably by Alexander the Great , Genghis Khan , and in modern era Western forces .
The land also served as a source from which the  greco-bactrians  ,  kushans  ,  hephthalites  , Saffarids , Ghaznavids ,  ghorids  , Khiljis , Timurids , Mughals , Durranis , and others have risen to form major empires  .
The political history of the modern state of  अफगानिस्तान  begins in 1709 , when the Hotaki dynasty was established in Kandahar followed by Ahmad Shah Durrani 's rise  to  power in 1747 .
In the  लेट  19th century , Afghanistan became a buffer state in the  ``  Great Game `` between the  अंग्रेजों  and Russian empires  .
Following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War , King Amanullah began  a  European  स्टाइल  modernization  of  the country but was stopped  by  the ultra-conservatives .
During the Cold War ,  बाद  the withdrawal of the British from neighboring India in 1947 , the United States and the Soviet Union began spreading influences in Afghanistan ,  जिससे  led to a bloody war between the US-backed mujahideen forces  और  the Soviet-backed Afghan government in which over a million Afghans  खोया  their lives .
This  थी  followed by the 1990s  सिविल  war , the rise  और  fall of the extremist Taliban government and the 2001–present war .
In December 2001 , the United Nations Security Council authorized the creation of the International Security Assistance  फ़ोर्स  ( ISAF ) to help maintain  सुरक्षा  in  अफगानिस्तान  and assist the Karzai administration .
Three decades of war made  अफगानिस्तान  one of the  संसार  's most dangerous countries , including  the  largest producer of refugees and asylum seekers .
While the international community is  पुनर्निर्माण  war-torn Afghanistan  ,  terrorist groups  ऐसे  as the Haqqani Network and Hezbi  islami   हैं  actively involved in a nationwide Taliban -led insurgency , which includes hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks .
According to  the  United Nations , the  insurgents  were  जिम्मेदार  for 80 %  of  civilian casualties in 2011 and 2012 .
The American  सिविल  War ( ACW ) , also  ज्ञात  as the War between the States or simply the Civil War (  देखिए  naming )  ,  was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United  राज्य  ( the ``  संघ  '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states  कि  declared their secession and formed the Confederate  राज्य  of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or  the  `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery , especially the  एक्सटेंशन  of  गुलामी  into the western territories .
Foreign powers did not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy  collapsed  , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction  प्रक्रम  of restoring  नेशनल  unity  और  guaranteeing rights to the  freed  slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans ,  led  by Abraham  lincoln  , opposed  expanding  slavery into United States '  territories  .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861  ,  seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the  आवक  Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's  inaugural   पता   घोषित  his  प्रशासन  would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject  काल्स  for secession .
confederate  forces seized numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace  सम्मेलन  failed to find a compromise , and both  पहलू  prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed  कि  European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none  किया  and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April  12  , 1861 , when Confederate  शक्तियां  fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union  सैनिकों  in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops  to  retake the fort ; consequently  ,  four more  स्लेव  states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The  संघ  soon controlled the border states  और  established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in 1861–62 .
the  autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British  हस्तक्षेप   .
Lincoln issued  the  Emancipation  उदघोषणा  ,  जिससे   बना  ending  गुलामी  a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and the  संघ  at Vicksburg split the  confederacy  in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at  the  Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led  to  Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union  सेना  in  1864  .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta  और   marched   to  the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of the earliest true  औद्योगिक   युद्धों  .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards ,  बैंको  , transportation and food supplies all  foreshadowed  World  युद्ध  I .
It remains the deadliest war  in  American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and  an  undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston  estimates  the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old , and  30  percent of all Southern white males aged  18–40  .
Cost of goods sold  (  COGS ) refer to the inventory  लागत  of those goods a business has sold during  a  particular  काल  .
Costs are  संबद्ध  with particular goods using one of several formulas ,  सहित  specific identification ,  first-in   first-out  ( FIFO )  ,  or average cost .
Costs  शामिल  all costs of purchase ,  लागत  of  परिवर्तन  and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location  और  condition .
Costs of goods made by the business include material , labor , and allocated overhead .
The costs of those goods not yet sold are deferred as costs of inventory until the  inventory  is sold or  लिखा  down in value .
Freak Lunchbox candy store in Halifax , Nova  स्कोटिया
A confectionery store ( more commonly referred to as a sweet shop in the United Kingdom , a candy store in the North America  ,  or a  lolly  shop in Australia )  बिकता  confectionery and is usually targeted  to  children .
Most confectionery stores are  भर  with  an  assortment of sweets far larger than a grocer or convenience store could  accommodate  .
They often offer a selection of old fashioned treats , and sweets from different countries .
Very often unchanged in layout since their inception  ,  confectioneries  हैं  known for their warming and nostalgic feel .
the  village of Pateley Bridge claims to have the oldest confectionery store in England .
The oldest sweet shop in England  ,  in the village of Pateley  सेतु
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa , Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in West South Central United States .
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 United States .
The state 's name is derived from  the  Choctaw words  okla  and humma , meaning ``  रेड  people ''  ,  and it is known informally by its nickname  ,  The Sooner State .
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory  on  November 16 , 1907 , Oklahoma  थी  the 46th state to enter the union .
Its residents  हैं  known as Oklahomans or ,  informally  `` Okies  ''  , and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City .
a  major producer of  प्राकृतिक   गैस  , oil , and agriculture , Oklahoma relies on an  आर्थिक   आधार  of aviation , energy , telecommunications , and biotechnology .
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the nation  ,  ranking among the top states in per capita income growth and gross  घरेलू  product growth .
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors , with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within their metropolitan statistical areas .
With small mountain  सीमाएँ  , prairie , mesas , and eastern forests , most of Oklahoma lies in  the  Great Plains and the U.S . Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather .
In addition to  having  a prevalence  of  English , German , Scottish  ,  Irish and Native American ancestry , more  than  25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma , second only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a confluence  of  three major American cultural regions and historically  परोसा  as a route for cattle  ड्राइव  , a  गंतव्य  for southern settlers , and a government-sanctioned territory for Native  अमेरिकी   .
Stacked and standing car tires
A tire ( or tyre ) is a ring-shaped  covering  that fits around a wheel 's rim to protect  it  and enable better vehicle performance .
Most tires , such as those for automobiles and bicycles , provide traction between the vehicle and the road while providing a flexible cushion that absorbs shock  .
The materials of modern pneumatic tires are synthetic rubber , natural rubber , fabric and wire , along with carbon black and other chemical compounds .
They consist of  a  tread  और  a body .
the  tread provides traction while the body provides containment for a quantity of compressed air .
Before rubber was developed , the first  संस्करण  of tires were simply bands  of   मेटल  that fitted around wooden wheels to prevent wear and tear .
जल्दी  rubber tires were solid ( not pneumatic ) .
Today ,  the  majority of tires are pneumatic inflatable structures  ,   comprising  a doughnut-shaped body of cords and wires  encased  in rubber and generally  भर  with compressed air to form an inflatable cushion .
Pneumatic tires are used on many types of vehicles , including cars  ,  bicycles , motorcycles ,  ट्रक  , earthmovers ,  और  aircraft .
मेटल  tires  हैं  still used on locomotives  और  railcars , and solid rubber ( or other polymer  )  tires are still used in various non-automotive applications ,  ऐसे  as some casters , carts , lawnmowers , and wheelbarrows  .
Dr. Joseph  वारेन  ( June 11 , 1741 – June 17 , 1775 ) was an American doctor  जो  played a leading role in American Patriot organizations in Boston  in   जल्दी  days of the American Revolution ,  आखिरकार  serving as president of the revolutionary  मैसाचुसेट्स  Provincial Congress .
Warren enlisted Paul Revere and William Dawes on April 18 , 1775 , to leave Boston and spread the alarm that the British garrison in Boston was setting out to raid  the  town of Concord and arrest rebel leaders John Hancock and Samuel Adams .
Warren participated in the next day 's Battles of  lexington  and Concord , which are commonly considered to be the  खोलने  engagements of the American Revolutionary  युद्ध  .
Warren  था  been commissioned a Major General in the colony 's militia shortly  पहले  the June  17  , 1775 Battle of Bunker Hill .
Rather than exercising his rank , Warren served in the battle  as  a  निजी  soldier , and was killed in combat when British troops stormed the redoubt  atop   नस्ल  's Hill .
His death , immortalized  in   जॉन  Trumbull 's painting , The Death of General  वारेन  at the Battle of Bunker  's  Hill , June 17  ,  1775 , galvanized the rebel forces , and he has been memorialized in many place names in  the  United States .
STM image of self-assembled supramolecular chains of  the   सशुल्क  semiconductor Quinacridone on Graphite .
An organic semiconductor is an organic material with semiconductor properties , that is , with an electrical conductivity between that of insulators and that of metals .
Single molecules ,  छोटी   कड़ी  (  oligomers  ) and organic polymers can  be  semiconductive .
Semiconducting small molecules ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) include the polycyclic aromatic compounds pentacene  ,  anthracene , and rubrene .
polymeric   सशुल्क  semiconductors include poly ( 3-hexylthiophene ) , poly ( p-phenylene vinylene  )  , as well as polyacetylene and its  डेरिवेटिव  .
There  हैं  two major overlapping classes  of   सशुल्क  semiconductors .
These are organic charge-transfer complexes and various linear-backbone conductive  polymers  derived from polyacetylene .
Linear backbone organic semiconductors include  polyacetylene  itself and its derivatives polypyrrole  ,  and polyaniline .
At least locally , charge-transfer complexes often exhibit similar conduction  mechanisms   to  inorganic semiconductors .
Such  mechanisms  arise  इससे  the presence of  छेद  and electron conduction layers separated by  a   बैंड  gap .
While  ऐसे  classic mechanisms are important locally , as with inorganic amorphous semiconductors  ,  tunnelling , localized states , mobility gaps , and phonon -assisted hopping also significantly contribute to conduction , particularly in polyacetylenes .
Like inorganic semiconductors , organic semiconductors can  be  doped .
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping such as  polyaniline  ( Ormecon ) and are also known as organic metals .
Typical current carriers in organic semiconductors are holes and  electrons  in π-bonds  .
Almost all organic solids are insulators .
But when  उनके  constituent molecules have π-conjugate systems  ,  electrons can move via π-electron cloud overlaps , especially by hopping , tunnelling and related mechanisms .
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and  phthalocyanine  salt crystals are examples of this type of  सशुल्क  semiconductor  .
Mainly due to low mobility , even unpaired electrons may be stable in charge-transfer complexes  .
Such unpaired electrons can function as current carriers .
This type of semiconductor is also obtained by pairing an electron donor molecule with  an  electron  acceptor  molecule .
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females from the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm  .
It  is  also known colloquially as gushing or squirting , although  ये  are considered to be  अलग  phenomena in some research publications .
The exact  सोर्स   और  nature of the fluid continue to  be  a topic of debate among medical professionals , which is also  सम्बन्धित  to  संदेह  over the existence of the G-Spot  .
The FIFA Women  's  World Cup is an international association football competition contested  by  the senior women 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been awarded every four years since  the  inaugural  टूर्नामेंट  in 1991 .
Japan won the 2011 tournament in a penalty shootout .
The current format of the tournament involves 16 teams competing  लिये   the  title at venues within the  मेजबान  nation ( s ) over a period of about three weeks ; –  इस  phase is often called the World Cup Finals  .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years , is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is recognized as the most important International competition in women 's football and  is  played amongst women 's national  फ़ुटबॉल  teams of the member states of FIFA , the sport  's  global governing body .
the  first Women  's  World Cup tournament ,  नामित  the Women 's World Championship  ,  was  आयोजित  in  1991  ,  sixty-one  years after the men 's first FIFA World Cup tournament in 1930 .
The  छह  World Cup tournaments have  महरूम  won by four different national teams .
The next World Cup will be hosted by Canada in 2015  .
Scorpions  is  a young adult novel written by Walter Dean Myers , first published in the United States by Harper  &  Row on June 20  ,   1988  .
Front page of a 17th century Hebrew Bible by Joseph Athias , now at Beth Hatefutsoth , Israel
'Son of man ' is the translation of various  यहूदी  and Greek phrases used in both the Hebrew  बाइबल  and  the  New Testament .
It has diverse meanings , ranging from a normal human being  to  a prophesied eternal , divine ruler .
The Hebrew expression `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e . ben-'adam ) appears one  सौ  and seven times in the Hebrew Bible .
This is the most common Hebrew  निर्माण  for the singular but is used mostly in Ezekiel ( 93 times ) and  14  times elsewhere .
In thirty two cases the phrase appears in intermediate plural form `` sons of men '' , i.e  .  human beings .
As generally interpreted by Jews , it denotes humankind generally .
In the Koine Greek of  the   नई  Testament , `` the  बेटे  of man  ''   is  invariably used as  ``  ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article .
the  use of the definite article in `` the son  of  man '' in the Christian gospels is  अनोखा  , and before its use there , no records of its  उपयोग  in any of the surviving Greek  दस्तावेज़  of antiquity exist .
Geza Vermes  रै  stated that `` the  बेटे  of man '' in the Christian gospels is  unrelated  to  यहूदी  Bible usages .
In Christian usage , unlike the Son of God title , which has been an essential element of Christian creeds since the Apostolic  आयु  , the proclamation of `` Jesus as the Son of  man  '' has never  महरूम   an  article of faith in Christianity .
The interpretation of the use of `` the Son of man '' in the New Testament has remained challenging and after 150 years of  बहस  no consensus on the issue has emerged  among  scholars .
Master  of  foxhounds leads  the  field from Powderham Castle in Devon , England , with the  hounds  in front .
Fox hunting is an activity  involving  the tracking , chase , and sometimes  हत्या  of  a  fox , traditionally a red fox , by trained foxhounds or other scent hounds , and a group of unarmed followers  led  by a master of foxhounds ,  जो  follow the hounds on foot or on horseback .
Fox hunting originated in the form practised until recently in the United Kingdom in the  16th   सदी  , but is practised  सब   over  the world  ,  including in Australia , Canada , France , Ireland , Italy and the United States  .
In Australia , the term also refers to the hunting of foxes with firearms similar to spotlighting or deer  शिकार  .
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to relate to any game animals or weapons ( e.g. , deer  शिकार  with bow and arrow ) ; in Britain and Ireland , `` hunting '' without qualification implies fox hunting ( or other forms of hunting with hounds- beagling  ,  stag hunting , mink hunting , drag hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here .
The  खेल  is controversial , particularly in the UK , where  it  was banned in Scotland in 2002 , and in England and Wales  in  November 2004 ( law enforced from February 2005 )  ,  though shooting foxes  as   vermin  remained legal .
Proponents  of  fox  शिकार  view it as an important part of rural culture and useful for reasons of conservation and pest control , while opponents argue that it is cruel and  अनावश्यक  .
Tobacco advertising is  the  advertising of tobacco products or use ( typically cigarette smoking ) by the tobacco industry through a variety  of  media including  प्रायोजन   ,  particularly of sporting events .
It is  अभी  one of the most highly regulated forms of marketing .
Some  or  all forms of tobacco  विज्ञापन  are banned in many countries .
Bally Technologies , Inc. is a manufacturer of slot machines and other gaming technology based in Las Vegas , Nevada .
the  company was founded in 1968 as  उन्नत  Patent Technology .
It eventually changed its name to Alliance Gaming and acquired , in 1996 , Bally Gaming International , a former division of Bally Manufacturing .
In 2006  ,  the entire company adopted the Bally name ,  a  trademark that originated  in  1932  by  the Bally Manufacturing Corporation .
Gustave Doré  's   engravings  illustrated the Divine Comedy ( 1861–1868 ) ;  यहाँ  , Dante is lost  in  Canto 1 of  the  Inferno .
Inferno (  इतालवी  for  ``  Hell `` ) is the first part of Dante Alighieri  's  14th-century  एपिक  poem Divine Comedy .
It  is   followed  by Purgatorio and Paradiso .
It is an allegory telling of the journey of Dante through Hell , guided by the  रोमन  poet Virgil .
In the  कविता   ,  Hell is depicted  as  nine  वृत्त  of suffering located within  the  Earth .
Allegorically  ,  the Divine Comedy represents the  यात्रा  of the soul towards God , with the Inferno  describing  the recognition and rejection of sin .
Smirnoff is a brand of vodka owned and produced by the British company Diageo .
The Smirnoff brand began  साथ  a vodka distillery founded in Moscow  by  Pyotr  arsenievich  Smirnov  (  1831–1898 ) .
It is now distributed in  130  countries .
It is produced in several countries including India , Ireland , Italy ,  the  United Kingdom and the United States .
Smirnoff products  शामिल  vodka , flavoured vodka ,  और  malt beverages .
In March 2006  ,  Diageo North America claimed that Smirnoff vodka was the  best-selling  distilled spirit  ब्रांड  in  the  world .
Big Brown ( foaled April 10 , 2005 in  केंटकी  ) is a retired champion American Thoroughbred racehorse and winner of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes .
Bred by Dr. Gary  B.  Knapp 's Monticule Farms in Lexington , Kentucky , he won his first five race  starts  .
He was sired by Grade III winner Boundary  ,  a son of North American Champion sire Danzig , a son  of  Northern Dancer .
Big Brown 's  बांध  was Mien ,  भी  a granddaughter of Northern Dancer through her sire , Nureyev .
The  serenity  Prayer is the common name  लिये   an  originally untitled  दुआ  by the American theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ) .
It  रै  been adopted by Alcoholics Anonymous and other twelve-step programs .
The best-known form is  :   परमेश्वर  , grant me the serenity to accept the things I can not change,
The courage to change the things I can,
And wisdom to know the difference .
The Declaration and Resolves of  the  First Continental  कॉंग्रेस  ( also known as the Declaration of Colonial Rights , or the Declaration  of  Rights )  ,  was a statement adopted by the First Continental Congress on  अक्तूबर  14 , 1774 , in response to the Intolerable Acts passed by the British Parliament  .
The Declaration outlined colonial objections to the Intolerable Acts , listed a colonial bill of rights , and provided a detailed list of grievances .
It was  समान  to the Declaration of Rights and Grievances , passed by the Stamp Act Congress a decade earlier .
The Declaration concluded with an outline of Congress  's  plans : to enter into a boycott of British  व्यापार  ( the Continental Association ) until their grievances were redressed  ,   to  publish addresses to the people of Great Britain and British  अमेरिका  ,  और  to send a petition to the King .
Pulse pressure  is  the pressure that is felt when feeling  the  pulse .
Measured in millimeters of mercury  (  mmHg ) ,  the   दबाव  difference between the systolic and diastolic pressures is the pressure change to create the pulse ,  जिससे  is the pulse pressure .
if  resting blood pressure is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80  millimeters  of mercury (  mmhg  ) ,  पल्स   दबाव  is 40 .
The Hills is a reality television series  जिससे  originally aired on MTV from May 31 ,  2006   जबतक   जुलाई  13 , 2010 .
The show uses a  वास्तविकता  television format  ,  following the personal  जीवनदान  of several young adults  जीना   in  Los Angeles , California , but tends towards a narrative format more commonly found in scripted genres such  as  soap operas .
The series originally followed the personal life of former Laguna Beach star Lauren Conrad  और  her friends ' new lives in Los Angeles .
After five seasons , Conrad  बाएँ  the series and was replaced by  another  former  लगुना  Beach star , Kristin Cavallari  ,  beginning in the second half of the fifth season .
The series concluded  at   the  end of the sixth  ऋतु  .
Entertainment Weekly  क्रमित  The Hills 82nd on their list  of  `` The 100 Best Shows of the Last 25 Years , ''  stating  that the series was a `` New Classic . ''
एओएल  TV called it TV 's Biggest Guilty Pleasure  .
The series premiered in syndication in the fall of 2009 alongside Laguna Beach : The Real Orange County .
In poker ,  ख़राब  beat  is  a  subjective  term for a hand in which a player with what appear to be  दमदार  cards nevertheless loses  .
it  most often occurs where one player bets the clearly stronger hand and their opponent makes a poor call that eventually `` hits  ''  and wins .
There is no consensus among poker players as to what exactly  constitutes  a bad  ताल  and often players will disagree about whether a particular hand  थी  a bad beat .
The goldfish  (  Carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater fish in the family Cyprinidae of order Cypriniformes  .
It was one of the earliest fish  to  be domesticated , and is one of the most  commonly  kept aquarium fish .
A relatively  छोटी  member of  the  carp family ( which also includes the koi carp and the crucian carp ) , the goldfish is a domesticated version  of  a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) native to east Asia .
it  was first domesticated in China more than a thousand years ago  ,  and  अनेक  distinct breeds  have  since been developed .
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in size ,  देह  shape  ,  fin configuration and coloration ( various combinations  of  white  ,  yellow , orange , red , brown , and black are known ) .
Uncooked Rouladen
Rouladen ( or Rinderroulade  ,   एकवचन  : roulade ) is a German meat roulade usually consisting of  बेकन  , onions , mustard and pickles wrapped in  thinly  sliced beef which is then cooked .
In some countries , the roulade is  भी  known as `` beef  ज़ैतून  '' .
Beef or veal  is  used as meat  हालांकि  some food scholars tend to believe that the original version was probably venison or pork , and pork is still popular in some areas .
The beef rouladen  as  we know them today have become popular over the  पिछला  century .
The cut is usually topside beef or silverside since this is the cheaper cut .
The more expensive  संस्करण  would be the round steak , also known as rump steak .
The meat is cut into large , thin slices .
The filling is  a  mixture of smoked and cooked pork belly  ,  chopped onions and chopped pickles ( gurken ) which is at  टाइम्स  varied by adding minced meat , sausage  मांस  , pine nuts and mustard .
The mixture  varies  from region to region .
Rouladen  हैं  traditionally served  लिये  dinner .
Red wine is often served with this dish  .
Typical eukaryotic cell .
Cellular respiration is the set  of  the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical  उर्जा  from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP )  ,  and then release waste products .
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions , which  ब्रेक  large molecules into smaller ones , releasing energy in the  प्रक्रम  as weak so-called `` high-energy  ''  bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products .
Respiration is one  of  the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity .
Cellular respiration is  माना  an exothermic redox  प्रतिक्रिया  .
the  overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs  in  the  देह  , most of which are redox reactions themselves .
Although technically , cellular respiration is a combustion reaction , it clearly does not resemble one when it  occurs  in a living cell .
इस  difference is because it occurs in many separate steps .
While  the  overall reaction is a combustion reaction  ,  no single reaction that comprises it is a combustion reaction .
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration include sugar , amino acids  और  fatty acids  ,  and a  आम  oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ) .
The energy stored in ATP ( its third  फास्फेट  group is weakly bonded  to  the rest  of  the molecule and is  cheaply  broken  allowing  stronger bonds  to  form  ,  thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy , including biosynthesis , locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes  .
Countries by 2011 GDP  (   नाममात्र  ) according to the CIA World Factbook .
This article includes a list of countries in the world sorted by their gross domestic product  (  GDP ) , the market value of all final goods and  सेवाएं  from a nation in a given year .
The GDP dollar estimates presented here are calculated at market or government official exchange rates .
Several  economies  which are not considered to be  देशों   (  world , the EU , and some dependent territories ) are included  in   the  lists because they appear in the sources .
These economies  हैं  not ranked in the charts here ,  लकिन  are listed where applicable .
The figures presented here do not take into account  मतभेद  in the cost of living in different countries , and the results can vary greatly from one year to another based on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's currency .
Such  fluctuations   may  change a country 's ranking from one year to the next , even  हालांकि  they often make little or no difference to the standard of living of its population .
Therefore these figures should be used with caution .
Some countries/regions may have citizens which are on average wealthy .
These countries/regions could appear in this list as having a small GDP .
This would be because the country/region listed has a small population , and therefore small total economy ; the GDP is calculated as the population times the wealth per capita .
Comparisons of national wealth are also frequently  बना   on  the basis of purchasing power parity ( PPP  )  , to adjust for differences in the cost of living in different  देशों  .
(  See List of countries by GDP ( PPP ) )
ppp  largely removes the exchange  रेट  problem  ,  but has its own  कमियां  ; it does not reflect the value of economic output in international trade , and it also requires  अधिक   estimation  than nominal  जीडीपी   .
On the whole , PPP per capita figures are more narrowly spread than nominal GDP per capita  आंकड़े  .
The first  सूची  includes data compiled by the United Nations Statistics Division for 2011 .
The second list largely includes data ( estimate ) compiled by the International Monetary Fund for 2012 .
The third list shows the World Bank 's mostly 2011 estimates , and the fourth  सूची  includes mostly 2012 estimates from the CIA World Factbook .
Lapping is a machining process , in which two surfaces are rubbed together with  an  abrasive  between  them , by hand movement or by way of a machine .
This can take two forms .
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding ) , typically involves rubbing a brittle material such as glass against a surface such as iron or glass  itself  (  भी  known as the `` lap '' or grinding tool )  साथ  an abrasive  ऐसे  as aluminum oxide , jeweller  's  rouge , optician 's rouge , emery , silicon carbide , diamond , etc. , in  between  them .
This produces microscopic  conchoidal  fractures as the abrasive rolls about between the two surfaces and removes material from both .
The other form of lapping involves a softer material such as pitch or a ceramic for the lap , which is `` charged ''  साथ  the abrasive .
The  गोद   is  then used to cut a harder material—the workpiece .
The abrasive embeds within the  softer  material which holds it and  permits  it to score  आरपार  and cut the harder material .
Taken to a finer limit , this will produce a polished surface such as with a polishing cloth on an automobile , or a polishing cloth or polishing pitch upon glass or steel  .
लिया  to the ultimate limit , with the aid of  सटीक  interferometry and  specialized  polishing machines or  skilled  hand polishing , lensmakers can  उपज  surfaces that are flat to  बेहतर  than 30 nanometers .
इस  is  एक   बीसवीं  of the wavelength of light from the commonly used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light  सोर्स  .
Surfaces this flat can be molecularly bonded ( optically contacted ) by bringing them together under  the  right conditions .
(  This is not the  वही  as the wringing effect of Johansson blocks ,  हालांकि  it is similar ) .
The term `` America 's Team ''  is  a popular nickname in the  संयुक्त  States that  refers  to the Dallas Cowboys in the National Football  लीग   .
The  उपनाम  originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film , where the narrator opens  साथ  the  following  introduction : The term is recognized and  प्रायः  used by media outlets , including ESPN , Yahoo ! , HBO Sports , and Sports Illustrated .
My Babysitter 's a  पिशाच  ( French : Ma gardienne est un vampire ) is a 2011 Canadian television series ,  आधारित  on the television  फिल्मी  of the same name .
In Canada  ,  the series premiered in French on  télétoon   on   फ़रवरी  28 , 2011 , in English on Teletoon on March 14 , 2011 , and on Disney Channel in the United States on June 27 , 2011 .
The show was created by Fresh  tv  , creators of 6teen and Total Drama .
The  दिखाएँ  follows Ethan Morgan ( Matthew Knight ) , who , in  the  television  फिल्मी  , learns that his babysitter  सारा  ( Vanessa Morgan ) is  a  vampire .
In the film ,  he  learns he is able to have visions and his best friend Benny  वीयर  ( Atticus Mitchell  )  is a spellmaster .
The  श्रेणी  follows the three as they take on supernatural forces and have adventures , with occasional help  इससे  fellow vampires Rory ( Cameron Kennedy ) and Erica ( Kate Todd ) , while dealing with the  परेशानियों   of  regular high school  जीवन  .
A second  ऋतु  was confirmed to start production in September 2011 and  it  first premiered on Disney Channel on  जून  29 , 2012 ,  it  premiered on Teletoon September 6 , 2012 .
Télétoon started  featuring  season 2 sneak-peak episodes on October 28 , 2012 and premiered it on January 10 , 2013
Dodge B Series utility  circa  1950 , driven by Albert Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up , often simply referred to as a pickup , is a light motor vehicle with an open-top , rear cargo area ( bed  )  .
In North America , the  पद   पिकअप  is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory built , integrated bed ,  as  well as for coupé utility vehicles , often  आधारित  on a personal car chassis , but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such  उपयोग  .
Some countries have their own terms similar to pickup , such as ute in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and New Zealand , or bakkie in South Africa .
Large pickup  ट्रक  are  somewhat  rare in Europe , where vans  और  light lorries are commonly used for similar  भूमिकाएँ  .
The President of  the  United  राज्य  of America ( POTUS ) is the head of state and head of  सरकारी  of the United States .
The president leads the executive branch of the federal  सरकारी  and  is  the  commander-in-chief  of the United States Armed Forces .
Article II of  the  U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the  निष्पादन  of federal law , alongside the  जिम्मेदारी  of appointing federal  कार्यपालिका  , diplomatic  ,  regulatory  ,   और  judicial officers , and concluding treaties with foreign powers , with the  सलाह  and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves , and to convene and adjourn either or both houses  of  Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
Since the founding of the United States , the power  of  the president and the federal government  have  grown substantially and each modern president  ,  despite possessing no formal legislative  शक्तियां  beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills , is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party  और  the  विदेशी  and domestic policy of the United States .
The president is frequently described as the most powerful person in the world .
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term , and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers , the other being the Vice President of the United States  .
The Twenty-second Amendment , adopted in 1951 , prohibits anyone from ever being elected  to  the presidency for a third full term .
It also prohibits a person from being elected  to  the presidency more than once if that person previously had served as president ,  or  acting  अध्यक्ष  , for more than two years  of   another  person  's   पद  as president .
In all , 43 individuals have served 55 four-year terms .
On January 20 , 2009 , Barack Obama became the  44th  and  वर्तमान  president .
On November 6 , 2012 , he  थी  re-elected and is scheduled to  serve  until January  20  , 2017 .
Bottled  खनिज  water
Bottled  जल   is  drinking water ( e.g. , well water , distilled water ,  खनिज  water  ,   or  spring  जल  ) packaged in plastic or glass water bottles .
Bottled water may be carbonated or not .
Sizes range  इससे  small  सिंगल  serving bottles to  विशाल  carboys for water  coolers  .
Map of the major rivers , lakes , and reservoirs in India
मैप  showing rivers and  बाढ़  prone  क्षेत्रों  in  इण्डिया
Rivers of India play an important role in  the  lives of the  भारतीय  people .
The river systems provide irrigation , potable water , cheap transportation , electricity , and the livelihoods for a large number of people all over the country and to rural areas  .
This easily explains why nearly all the major cities  of  India are located by the  बैंको  of  नदियाँ  .
The rivers also have an important role in Hindu mythology and are  माना  holy  by  all Hindus in the country .
Seven major rivers along with  उनके  numerous tributaries  मेक  up the river  प्रणाली  of India .
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the  खाड़ी  of Bengal ; however , some  of  the rivers whose courses take them through the western part of the  देश  and towards the east of the state of Himachal Pradesh empty into the Arabian Sea .
Parts of Ladakh ,  उत्तरी  parts of the Aravlli range and the arid parts  of  the Thar Desert have inland drainage .
Dr.Francis Buchanan surveyed the  पाठ्यक्रम   of  the rivers of India along with their tributaries and  शाखाओं  in  1810-11  AD and presented  a  minute account of  it  .
the  shifting of the courses and bed over the centuries  is  very remarkable .
Many of the channels mentioned in that survey have now become dead , dried or even extinct .
सब  major rivers of India originate from  एक  of the three main watersheds :
The Himalaya and the Karakoram  सीमाएँ
Vindhya and Satpura  सीमाएँ  and Chotanagpur  पठार  in central India
Sahyadri or Western  ghats  in western India
The Bretton Woods system of monetary  प्रबन्धन   स्थापित  the rules for commercial and financial relations among the world 's  प्रमुख  industrial states in  the   mid-20th  century  .
the  Bretton Woods  प्रणाली  was the  पहला  example of a fully negotiated monetary order intended to govern monetary relations among independent nation-states .
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World War II was still raging , 730 delegates from all 44 Allied nations gathered at the Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton Woods , New Hampshire , United States , for the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference .
The delegates deliberated during 1–22  जुलाई  1944 , and signed the  अनुबंध  on its final day .
Setting up a  प्रणाली  of rules , institutions , and procedures to regulate the international monetary system , the planners at Bretton  वुड्स   स्थापित  the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Monetary Fund ( IMF  )  and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( IBRD ) , which today  is  part of the  संसार  Bank Group .
These organizations  became  operational in 1945 after a sufficient number of  देशों  had ratified the agreement .
The chief features of the Bretton Woods system were an obligation for  प्रत्येक  country to adopt a  मौद्रिक  policy that maintained the exchange rate by tying its currency to the  u.S.  dollar and the ability  of  the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments .
On 15 August 1971 , the United States unilaterally terminated convertibility of the US $ to gold .
This brought the Bretton  वुड्स  system to an end  और  saw the dollar become  fiat  currency .
This action , referred to as the Nixon  शॉक  , created the situation in which the United States dollar became  a   आरक्षित   करेंसी  used by many states .
At the same time , many fixed currencies ( such as GBP , for example ) , also became free  फ्लोटिंग  .
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is an Italian company  कि  designs and manufactures motorcycles .
Headquartered in Bologna , Italy , Ducati is owned by Audi through its Italian subsidiary Lamborghini .
A credit score is a numerical expression based on a statistical analysis of a person 's credit files ,  to  represent the creditworthiness  of  that person .
A credit score is primarily based on credit  रपट  information typically sourced from credit bureaus .
Lenders , such as banks and credit card  कंपनियाँ  , use credit scores to evaluate the potential risk posed  by  lending money to consumers and to mitigate losses due to bad debt .
Lenders use credit scores to determine who qualifies for  a  loan , at what interest rate ,  और  what credit limits .
Lenders also use credit scores to determine which customers are likely  to   लाओ  in the most revenue .
The use of credit  or  identity scoring  prior  to authorizing access or granting credit is an implementation of a trusted system .
Credit scoring is not limited to banks .
Other organizations , such  as  mobile phone companies , insurance  कंपनियाँ  ,  जमींदार  , and government departments employ the same techniques  .
क्रेडिट  scoring also has a lot of overlap with data mining , which uses many similar techniques .
These techniques  combine  thousands of factors but they are more or less similar or the same .
The seven SI base units and the interdependency of their definitions : for  उदाहरण  , to extract the definition of the metre from  the  speed of  लाइट  ,  the  definition of  the  second must be known while  the  ampere and candela are both dependent on the definition of energy which in turn is defined in terms of length , mass and time .
The International System of Units ( SI ) defines  सात  units of measure as a basic set from which all other  si  units are derived .
These SI base units and their  शारीरिक  quantities are:
metre for length ( US English : meter )
kilogram for  द्रव्यमान  ( note : not  the  gram )
second for time
ampere for electric current
kelvin  लिये  temperature
candela  for luminous intensity
mole  लिये  the amount of substance .
the  SI base quantities form a set of mutually independent dimensions as required  by  dimensional analysis commonly employed in science and technology .
However , in a given realization of these units they may well be interdependent , i.e  .  defined in terms of  प्रत्येक   अन्य  .
The names of SI units are written in lowercase characters ( the 'degree Celsius ' meets this  नियम  ,  as  'degree ' is the unit , and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ) .
The symbols of units are written in lowercase ( e.g  .  metre has the symbol m ) , except that symbols for  इकाई  named  बाद  persons are written with an initial capital letter ( e.g. , the hertz has the uppercase symbol Hz ) .
Many other units , such as  the  litre ( US English : liter ) , are formally not part of the SI , but are accepted for use with SI .
Monument Canyon
Colorado National Monument ( locally referred to as The Monument  )  is a part of  the  National Park Service near the  नगर  of Grand Junction ,  कोलोराडो  .
Spectacular canyons cut deep into sandstone and even  granite–gneiss–schist  rock formations , in some areas .
This is an  क्षेत्रफल  of desert land high on the Colorado Plateau , with pinion and  juniper  forests on the plateau .
The park hosts a wide range of wildlife , including red-tailed hawks and golden eagles , ravens  ,   jays  , desert bighorn sheep , and coyotes .
Activities include hiking ,  horseback  riding , road bicycling , and scenic drives ; a  आगंतुक  center on the west side contains a natural history museum and gift shop .
वहीँ  are magnificent views from trails  और  the Rim  चट्टान  Drive , which winds along the plateau .
Nearby are the Book Cliffs , and the largest flat-topped mountain in the world , the Grand Mesa .
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon , which runs the width of the park , and includes rock formations  ऐसे  as  स्वतंत्रता  Monument , the Kissing  युगल  , and Coke Ovens .
The monument includes 20,500 acres ( 32 square miles )  ,  much of which  रै  been recommended to Congress for designation as wilderness .
left to right : Utility Uniform , Blue Dress Uniform , Service Uniform , and Evening Dress uniforms
The Uniforms of  the  United States Marine Corps serve to distinguish Marines from members of other services .
Among current uniforms in the United States Armed Forces ,  the  Marines ' uniforms have been in service the longest .
The Marine Dress Blue uniform  रै  , with  few  changes , been worn in essentially its current form since the 19th century .
North American telephone area codes 419  और  567 serve the northwest  quadrant  of the U.S. state of Ohio .
The largest city served by these area codes is Toledo ( and its suburbs of Holland  ,  Maumee , Northwood , Oregon , Ottawa Hills , Perrysburg , Rossford , Sylvania , Swanton , Waterville , and Whitehouse ) .
Other cities served by these  क्षेत्रफल  codes include Ada  ,  Ashland , Bellevue , Bluffton , Bowling Green , Bryan  ,  Bucyrus , Celina  ,  Clyde , Crestline , Defiance , Delphos , Edison , Erastus , Findlay , Fostoria , Fremont ,  galion  ,  kenton  , Lima , Mansfield , Mount Gilead , Napoleon , Norwalk , Oak Harbor , Port Clinton ,  sandusky  , Shelby , St. Marys  ,  Tiffin , Upper Sandusky , Van Wert , Wapakoneta ,  wauseon  , Willard .
Other areas served include the Lake Erie Islands north  of  Port Clinton and west of Sandusky .
the  main area code , 419 , was created as one of the original  क्षेत्रफल  codes in October 1947 ; the overlay area code 567 was created on  जनवरी  1 ,  2002  .
Despite the presence of Toledo , the state  's  fourth-largest city , 419 was the  पिछला   of  Ohio 's original four area codes to have been split or overlaid .
मिकी  Leroy Gilley ( born March 9 , 1936 ) is an American country music singer  और  musician  .
Although he started out singing straight-up country and western material in  the  1970s , he moved  towards  a more pop  -friendly  sound in the 1980s , bringing him further success on not just the country charts , but the  पॉप  charts as well .
Among his biggest hits are `` Room Full of Roses  ,  '' `` Do n't  the  Girls All Get Prettier at Closing Time , '' and the remake of the Soul hit `` Stand by Me `` .
He is also the cousin of Jerry Lee Lewis  ,  Carl  mcvoy  , Jim Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart .
According to the Federal Aviation Administration ,  gilley   is  a licensed pilot  ,  who holds an instrument rating with commercial pilot privileges for multi-engine  airplanes  , as well as private  पायलट  privileges for single engine aircraft .
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11 ,  सितंबर  11th , or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in  नई  York City and the Washington , D.C. area on September 11 , 2001 .
Four passenger airliners were  hijacked  by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings  in  suicide attacks .
Two of  those  planes , American Airlines Flight 11 and  संयुक्त  Airlines Flight 175 , were crashed  into  the North and South towers , respectively , of the World Trade  बीच  complex  in  New York City  .
Within  दो  hours , both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete  पतन  of all other buildings in the WTC complex , as well as major damage to ten other large surrounding structures .
A third plane , American Airlines Flight 77 ,  थी  crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United  राज्य  Department of  रक्षा  ) , leading to a partial collapse in its western side .
The fourth plane , United Airlines Flight  93  , was targeted at the United States Capitol in Washington , D.C. , but crashed into a field near Shanksville , Pennsylvania , after its passengers tried to overcome the  hijackers   .
In  कुल  , almost 3,000  लोगों  died in the attacks , including the 227 civilians and 19 hijackers aboard the four planes  .
Suspicion quickly fell on al-Qaeda .
Although the group 's leader , Osama bin  लादेन  , initially denied any involvement , in 2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks .
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S.  support  of Israel , the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia , and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks .
The United States responded  to  the attacks by  शुभारंभ  the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose  the  Taliban  ,  which had harbored  al-qaeda  .
Many countries  strengthened  their anti-terrorism  विधान  and expanded law enforcement powers  .
Having evaded capture for years , bin Laden  थी  located and killed by U.S. forces in May 2011 .
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other properties caused serious damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets .
Cleanup of the  संसार  Trade Center site was completed in May 2002 , and the  प्रस्तुतीकरण   थी  repaired within a year .
Numerous memorials have been constructed , including the National September 11 Memorial & Museum  in  New  यॉर्क  , the Pentagon Memorial , and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania .
After a lengthy delay , the One World Trade  बीच  is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in  नई  York City in 2013 .
Finding Nemo is a 2003 American computer-animated comedy-drama adventure film written  और  directed by Andrew Stanton , released by  वॉल्ट   डिज़्नी   तस्वीरें  , and the fifth film  उत्पादित   by  Pixar Animation Studios .
It  tells  the story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who , along with  a   राजसी  tang named Dory  (  Ellen DeGeneres ) , searches for his abducted  बेटे  Nemo ( Alexander Gould )  सब  the way to  सिडनी  Harbour .
साथ  the way , Marlin learns to take  risks  and let Nemo take care of himself .
It is Pixar 's first film  to  be released in cinemas in the northern hemisphere summer .
The film was re-released for the first time in 3D on September 14 , 2012 ,  और  it was released on Blu-ray on December 4 , 2012 .
A sequel , Finding Dory , is currently in development , set to be  released  on November 25 , 2015 .
The film received universal critical acclaim and won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature , and was nominated in three more categories including Best Original Screenplay .
It was  the  second  highest-grossing  film of 2003 , earning a total of $ 921 million worldwide .
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling DVD of all time , with over 40 million  नक़ल  sold as of  2006  , and was the highest-grossing G-rated  फिल्मी  of all time  पहले  Pixar 's own Toy Story 3 overtook it .
It is also the 23rd highest-grossing film  of  all time , as well as the 3rd highest-grossing animated film .
In 2008 , the American Film Institute named it the tenth greatest  एनिमेटेड  film  कभी  made  दौरान  their Top 10 .
The sixth season of  अमेरिका  's Best Dance Crew , also known as America 's Best Dance Crew : Season of the Superstars , premiered on April 7 , 2011 and concluded on June 5  ,  2011 .
Auditions were held in four cities from January 21  through   फ़रवरी  5  :  Chicago , Houston , New York ,  और  Los Angeles .
इस  season takes  a  different route from past seasons .
The crews must perform to the music of one specific artist each week , including Rihanna , Lil Wayne , and other popular stars .
This season also features  खास   अतिथि  appearances by various music  हस्तियाँ  including Justin Bieber , The Black Eyed Peas , Katy Perry ,  kesha  , Nicki  minaj  , and Kanye West .
Dominic `` D-Trix '' Sandoval , a former member of Quest Crew , the winner of the third season of America 's Best Dance Crew , joins returning judges Lil Mama and  jc  Chasez as the newest judge .
In the season finale ,  i  aM mE  थी  declared the winner of Season  6  and received the $  100,000  ( USD ) prize .
In the United  राज्य  , Social Security refers to the Old-Age , Survivors  ,  and Disability  बीमे  ( OASDI ) federal program .
The original Social Security Act ( 1935 ) and the current version of the Act , as amended , encompass several social welfare and social insurance programs .
Social Security is primarily funded through dedicated payroll taxes called Federal Insurance  योगदान  Act tax ( FICA ) .
Tax deposits are formally entrusted to the Federal  old-age  and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund  ,  the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund , the Federal  हॉस्पिटल  Insurance Trust Fund , or the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund  जिससे  comprise the Social Security Trust Fund .
Upward redistribution of income is responsible for about 43 % of the projected Social Security shortfall over the next 75  सालो  .
According to economist Martin Feldstein , the combined spending for all social insurance programs in 2003 constituted 37 % of government expenditure and 7 % of the gross domestic product .
Social Security is currently estimated to keep roughly 40 percent of all Americans age 65 or older out of poverty .
The Social Security Administration is headquartered  in   woodlawn  , Maryland , just west  of  Baltimore .
The alcohol by volume shown on  a  bottle of absinthe .
Alcohol by volume ( abbreviated as ABV ,  abv  , or  alc/vol   )  is a  मानक  measure of how much alcohol ( ethanol ) is contained in  an  alcoholic beverage ( expressed as  a  percentage of total volume ) .
the  ABV standard  is  used worldwide .
In some countries ,  दारू  by volume is referred to as degrees  gay-lussac  ( after the French chemist Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac ) .
Laurel Hollow  is  a village in the Town of Oyster Bay  in  Nassau County , New York in  the  United States .
The population was 1,952 at the 2010 census  .
Charles John Huffam Dickens  (  ; 7 February 1812 – 9 June 1870 ) was an English writer and social critic .
He created some of the world 's most memorable fictional characters and is generally  regarded  as the greatest novelist of the Victorian period .
During his life , his works enjoyed unprecedented fame  ,   और  by  the  twentieth century his literary genius was broadly acknowledged by critics and scholars .
His novels and short stories continue to be  widely  popular .
Born in Portsmouth , England , Dickens left  स्कूल  to  कार्य  in a factory after his father was thrown into debtors  '  prison .
Although he had  छोटी  formal education , his early impoverishment  drove  him to succeed .
Over his career he edited a weekly journal for 20 years , wrote 15 novels  ,   5  novellas  और  hundreds of short stories and non-fiction articles , lectured and performed extensively  ,  was an  indefatigable  letter writer ,  और  campaigned vigorously for children 's rights , education , and  अन्य  social  reforms  .
Dickens sprang  to  fame with the 1836 serial publication of The Pickwick Papers .
Within a  few   सालो  he had become  an  international  साहित्यिक  celebrity , famous for his humour ,  व्यंग्य  , and keen observation of  अक्षर  and society .
His novels , most published in monthly or weekly instalments , pioneered the serial publication of  कथा  fiction , which became the dominant Victorian mode for novel  प्रकाशन  .
The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate his audience 's reaction , and he often modified his plot and character development based on such feedback .
For example , when his  बीवी  's chiropodist expressed  तकलीफ  at the way Miss Mowcher in David Copperfield seemed to reflect her disabilities , Dickens went  on  to improve the  अक्षर  with positive lineaments .
Fagin  in  Oliver Twist apparently mirrors the famous fence Ikey Solomon ; His caricature of  leigh  Hunt in  the  figure of Mr  skimpole  in Bleak House was likewise  toned  down on advice from some of his friends  ,   as  they read episodes .
in   the  same novel , both Lawrence Boythorne and Mooney the beadle are  drawn  from real life – Boythorne from Walter  जंगली   landor  and Mooney from 'Looney ' , a beadle at Salisbury Square .
His plots were carefully constructed , and Dickens  प्रायः  wove in elements from topical events into his narratives .
Masses of the illiterate poor chipped in ha'pennies to  have  each new monthly episode  पढ़ा  to them , opening up  और  inspiring a new class of readers .
Dickens was regarded as the literary colossus of his  आयु  .
His 1843 novella , A Christmas Carol , is  एक  of the most influential works ever written , and it remains  लोकप्रिय  and continues to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre .
His creative genius has  महरूम  praised by fellow writers—from Leo Tolstoy to G. K. Chesterton and George Orwell —for its realism , comedy  ,  prose style , unique characterisations ,  और  social criticism .
On the other hand Oscar Wilde , Henry James and Virginia Woolf complained of a lack of psychological depth , loose writing  ,  and a  रग  of saccharine sentimentalism .
Martin Luther King and other civil rights leaders  in  front  of  the statue of Abraham Lincoln , August 28 , 1963
The civil rights  गति  was a series of worldwide political movements for  समता  before the law that peaked in the 1960s .
In many situations it took the form of campaigns of civil resistance aimed at achieving change  by  nonviolent forms  of  resistance .
in  some situations it was accompanied , or followed , by  सिविल  unrest  और  armed rebellion .
The process was long and tenuous in  अनेक   देशों  , and many of these movements  किया  not fully achieve their goals although , the  प्रयत्न  of these movements  किया  lead to improvements in the legal rights of previously oppressed groups of people .
The  प्रमुख  aim of the civil rights movement included  ,  and include , ensuring that  the  rights of all people are equally protected by the law , including the rights of minorities .
Civil rights movements ranging from the global LGBT  अधिकारों  movement to the  वैश्विक  Women  's  rights movement  to  various racial minority rights movements around the world continue .
The 2010 FIFA World Cup was the 19th FIFA World Cup , the world championship for men 's national  संघ  football teams .
it  took place in  दक्षिण  Africa from 11  जून  to 11 July 2010 .
the  bidding  प्रक्रम  for hosting the tournament finals was open only to  अफ़्रीकी  nations ; in 2004 , the international football federation , FIFA , selected South Africa over Egypt and  मोरक्को  to become the first African nation to host  the  finals .
The matches were played in ten stadiums in nine host cities around the country , with the  फाइनल  played at the Soccer City stadium in South Africa 's largest city , Johannesburg .
thirty-two  teams  यहूद  selected for participation via a worldwide qualification tournament that began in August 2007 .
In the first round of the tournament finals , the teams competed in round-robin  समूह  of four teams for points , with the top two teams in each  समूह  proceeding .
ये  sixteen teams advanced to the knockout  स्टेज  , where three rounds of play decided which teams would participate in the  फाइनल  .
In the final , Spain ,  the  European champions , defeated third-time  finalists  the Netherlands 1–0 after extra time , with  आन्द्रेस  Iniesta 's goal in the 116th minute giving Spain their first world title , becoming the eighth nation  to  win the tournament , and the first European nation to win the tournament outside its home continent .
Host  स्वदेश  South Africa , 2006 world champions Italy and 2006 runners-up France were all eliminated in  the  first  गोलाकार  of the tournament .
It  थी  the first  समय   कि  the hosts were eliminated in  the  first  गोलाकार  .
नई   जीलैंड  with their three draws were the only undefeated team in the tournament , but were also eliminated in the  पहला   गोलाकार  .
The  mcmuffin  is a  परिवार  of breakfast  सैंडविच  in various sizes and configurations , sold by the  fast-food  restaurant chain McDonald 's .
The Egg McMuffin is the signature breakfast  सैंडविच  ; it  थी  invented  by  the late McDonald 's franchisee Herb  पीटरसन  in the late 1960s and was introduced nationwide  in  1972 .
John Lennon was an English musician  जो  gained worldwide fame as one of the founders of The Beatles , for  उसके   subsequent  solo career , and for his political activism and pacifism  .
He was shot by Mark  दाउद  Chapman at the entrance of the building where he lived , The Dakota , in New York City on 8 December 1980  .
लेनन  had just  लौटे  from Record Plant Studio with his wife , Yoko Ono .
Lennon was  सुनाया  dead on arrival at St. Luke's-Roosevelt  हॉस्पिटल  Center , where it was stated that  nobody   could  have lived for more than a few minutes after sustaining such injuries .
Shortly after local news  स्टेशन  reported Lennon  's  death , crowds gathered at Roosevelt  हॉस्पिटल   और  in front of the Dakota .
Lennon was cremated on 10 December  1980  at the Ferncliff Cemetery in Hartsdale , New York ;  the  ashes were  दिए  to Ono  ,  who chose not to hold a  अंत्येष्टि   लिये  him .
The first report of Lennon 's death to a  u.S.  national audience was  घोषित  by Howard Cosell ,  on   एबीसी  's Monday Night Football  .
New Orleans ( or , locally or ; ) is a major United States port and the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana .
The population of the city was  343,829  as of the 2010 U.S. Census .
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New  orleans–metairie–kenner  Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the  46th  largest in the United States .
The New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined Statistical  क्षेत्रफल  , a larger trading area , had a 2010 population of 1,214,932 .
The city is named after Orléans , a city located on the Loire River in Centre , France , and is well known  लिये  its distinct French Creole architecture , as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage  .
New Orleans is also famous for  इसके  cuisine , music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ) ,  और   इसके   सालाना  celebrations and festivals , most notably  mardi  Gras .
The city is often referred to as the `` most unique '' in America  .
New Orleans is located in southeastern Louisiana , straddling the  मिसिसिपी  River .
The city and Orleans Parish ( ) are .
The city  और  parish are bounded by the  parishes  of St.  tammany  to the north ,  st.  Bernard to the east , Plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the south and west .
Lake Pontchartrain , part of which is included in the city limits , lies to the north and Lake Borgne lies to the east .
The United States presidential election of 1968  थी   the  46th quadrennial presidential election ,  आयोजित  on Tuesday , November 5 , 1968 .
The Republican nominee , former Vice-President Richard Nixon , won the election over the  लोकतांत्रिक  nominee , incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran on a campaign that  promised  to restore  विधि  and order to the nation 's cities , torn  by  riots and crime .
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the New Deal  गठबन्धन  that had dominated presidential politics  लिये  36  सालो  .
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide , the  चुनाव  saw the incumbent president forced out of the race and a Republican  निर्वाचित  for  the  first time in twelve years .
It was a wrenching national experience , conducted during a year of violence that included the  हत्या  of civil  अधिकारों  leader Martin Luther King ,  jr.  , and subsequent race riots across  the  nation , the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy , widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses , and violent confrontations between  पुलिस  and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National  सम्मेलन  as the Democratic party split again and again .
the  election featured the strongest third party effort since 1912 by former Alabama Governor  जार्ज  Wallace  ,   a  Democrat .
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in  the  South to  समाप्त  school segregation , he  carried  the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the  उत्तर  .
This  थी  the last  चुनाव  in which New York had the  सबसे  votes in  the  electoral college ( 43 votes ) .
After the 1970 census ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  gained the most electoral votes and has remained the most populous state since then .
This is  the  latest election  जहाँ  a presidential ticket won without  carrying  the vice presidential candidate 's home state .
Karak ( ; also known as Garak , Garrak , and Gorg ) is a village in Gamasiyab Rural District , in the Central District of Nahavand County , Hamadan Province , Iran .
At the 2006 census , its population was 294 , in 65 families .
Kurt 's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 – April 5 , 1994  )  was an American musician and artist , best known as the lead singer , guitarist  और  primary songwriter of the grunge  बैंड  Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in  1985  and established it as part of the Seattle music scene , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record  लेबल  Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like  टीन  Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following  the   कामयाबी  of Nevermind , Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X , and Cobain hailed as  ``  the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was  प्रायः  uncomfortable  और  frustrated , believing his message  और  artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public , with his personal issues often subject  to  media attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his life , Cobain struggled with heroin addiction , illness and depression .
He also had difficulty coping  साथ  his fame and public image , and  the   पेशेवर  and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his wife , musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was found dead  at  his home in Seattle , the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
the  circumstances of  उसके  death at age 27 have become  a  topic of public fascination and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana  ,  with Cobain as a  songwriter  , has sold over 25 million albums in the  u.S.  ,  और  over 50 million  विश्वव्यापी  .
A millwright is a craftsman or tradesman engaged with the construction and maintenance of machinery .
More generally in the  अंग्रेज़ी   बोलना  world  ,  early millwrights were specialist carpenters who erected machines used in agriculture , food processing and processing lumber and paper .
In the early part of the Industrial Revolution , their skills were pressed into service building  the  earliest powered textile mills .
Modern millwrights work with steel  और  other materials in addition to wood and must often combine the skills of  अनेक  skilled trades in  अनुक्रम  to successfully fabricate  औद्योगिक  machinery  or  to  इकट्ठे  machines from pre-fabricated parts .
The modern millwright must also be able to read blueprints  और  other schematics  to  aid him in the construction of complex systems .
Millwrights  हैं  frequently unionized  ,  with around  45  % unionized in the US , although experienced millwrights often set themselves up as independent contractors .
The Adjustment Bureau is a 2011 American  रोमांटिक  action thriller film loosely  आधारित  on the Philip K. Dick short story  ,  `` Adjustment Team `` .
The film was written and directed by George Nolfi and stars Matt Damon  और  Emily Blunt .
The cast also includes Anthony Mackie , John Slattery , Michael Kelly , and Terence Stamp .
The score was composed  by  Thomas Newman , with two songs by Richard Ashcroft ( `` Future 's Bright  ''  for the opening sequence ;  ``  Are You Ready ? '' for the closing credits ) .
Sodium azide is the inorganic compound  साथ  the formula NaN3 .
This colorless salt is the gas-forming component in many  car  airbag systems .
It is used for the preparation of other azide compounds .
It is an ionic substance , is highly  घुलनशील  in water ,  और  is very acutely toxic .
Double rainbow and  supernumerary  rainbows on the inside of the primary arc .
The shadow of the  फ़ोटोग्राफ़र  's head on the bottom marks the centre of the rainbow circle ( antisolar point ) .
A rainbow is an optical  और  meteorological phenomenon  कि  is  caused  by reflection of  लाइट  in water droplets in the Earth  's  atmosphere , resulting in a spectrum of light appearing in the sky .
It takes the form of a multicoloured arc .
Rainbows caused by sunlight always  appear  in the  खण्ड  of sky  सीधे  opposite the sun .
In  a  `` primary rainbow '' , the arc shows red on the outer part and  बैंगनी  on the inner side .
This rainbow is caused by  लाइट  being refracted while  प्रवेश  a droplet of water , then reflected inside on the back of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it .
In a double rainbow  ,  a second arc is seen outside  the  primary arc , and has the order of its colours  reversed  , red facing toward the other one , in both rainbows  .
इस  second rainbow is caused by light reflecting twice inside water droplets .
The Conservative  पार्टी  , officially the Conservative and Unionist Party and colloquially referred to as the Tory  पार्टी  or the Tories , is a centre-right political party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies of conservatism and  अंग्रेजों  unionism .
it is the largest political party in the United Kingdom , being the largest single party in the House of Commons with 303 MPs , the largest party in local government with 9,391 councillors ,  और  the largest  अंग्रेजों  party in the European Parliament with 25 MEPs .
it  governs in  गठबन्धन  with the  उदार  Democrats , with  पार्टी  leader David Cameron as Prime Minister .
The Conservative Party was founded in 1834 , and was one of two dominant parties in the 19th  सदी  , along with the Liberal Party .
It changed its name to the Conservative and Unionist Party in 1912 after merging with the Liberal Unionist Party , although that name is rarely used and it is generally referred to as simply  the  Conservative Party .
In the 1920s , the Liberal vote greatly diminished  और   the  Labour Party became the Conservatives ' main  विरोधियों  .
Conservative  प्रधान  Ministers led governments  लिये  57 years of the 20th century , including Winston Churchill ( 1940–45 , 1951–55 ) and Margaret Thatcher ( 1979–90 )  .
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging economic liberalisation and saw the  conservatives  become the  सबसे  eurosceptic of the three major parties  .
The party was returned  to  government in coalition , having failed  to   जीत  a majority ,  in  2010 under the more `` liberal '' leadership of David Cameron .
in  the European Parliament , the Conservatives are the largest British party with 25 MEPs , who sit with the soft eurosceptic European Conservatives and Reformists (  ecr  ) parliamentary  समूह  , while the party itself is a member of the Alliance of European Conservatives and Reformists  (   aecr  ) Europarty .
They are the third-largest party in the Scottish Parliament and second-largest in the Welsh Assembly .
They were formally allied to the Ulster Unionist Party ( UUP ) as part  of  the  ulster  Conservatives and Unionists arrangement  ,  with the UUP currently  participating  in the  five-party  Northern Ireland Executive  .
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B girl group whose  फाइनल  , and perhaps most recognizable , line-up comprised Beyoncé Knowles , Kelly Rowland and  मिशेल  Williams .
Formed in 1990 in  ह्यूस्टन  , Texas , Destiny 's Child members began their musical endeavors as Girl 's Tyme comprising ,  among  others , Knowles , Rowland , LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett .
After years of limited success , they were signed to Columbia Records as Destiny 's Child .
Destiny 's Child was launched into mainstream recognition following the release of their best-selling second  एल्बम  , The Writing 's on the  वॉल  , which contained the number-one singles `` Bills  ,  Bills , Bills `` and  ``  Say My Name `` .
Despite  नाजुक  and commercial success , the group was plagued by  आतंरिक  conflict and legal turmoil , as Roberson and Luckett attempted to split from the group 's manager Mathew Knowles , citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland , his daughter and niece , respectively .
Both  roberson   और  Luckett were soon replaced with Williams and  farrah  Franklin ; however , in 2000 , Franklin was  बर्खास्त  , leaving  उन्हें  as a trio .
Their third album , Survivor , which contains themes the public interpreted as a channel to the group 's experience , contains the worldwide hits `` Independent Women `` , `` Survivor `` and `` Bootylicious `` .
In 2002 , they announced a hiatus  और  re-united two years later for the release of their fourth studio  एल्बम  , Destiny  fulfilled  ( 2004 )  .
Destiny  's  Child has sold more than 50 million records worldwide to date  .
Billboard magazine ranks the group as one of the greatest musical trios of all time , the ninth most successful artist/band of the 2000s , and placed the group 68th in its All-Time Hot 100 Artists list in 2008 .
the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is a  संयुक्त  States  संघीय  agency under the Department of Health and Human Services headquartered in Druid Hills , unincorporated DeKalb County , Georgia , in Greater Atlanta .
It works to protect public health and  सुरक्षा  by providing information to enhance health decisions , and it promotes health  through  partnerships with state health departments and other organizations .
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease prevention and control (  विशेषकर  infectious diseases and foodborne pathogens  और  other  सूक्ष्मजैविक  infections ) , environmental health , occupational  सुरक्षा  and health , health  प्रमोशन  , injury prevention and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the  संयुक्त  States .
The CDC is the United States ' national public health institute and is a founding member of the International Association of National  पब्लिक  Health  संस्थान  .
Earthquake prediction ``  is  usually defined as the specification of  the  time , location , and magnitude of a future earthquake within stated limits '' , and  विशेषकर  of `` the next  दमदार  earthquake to occur in a region . ''
This can be distinguished from earthquake forecasting  ,  which  is  the probabilistic  मूल्यांकन  of general earthquake hazard , including the frequency and magnitude of damaging earthquakes , in  a  given area over periods of years or decades .
This can be further distinguished from real-time earthquake warning systems , which , upon detection of  a  severe earthquake , can provide neighboring regions a few seconds warning of potentially  significant  shaking .
To be useful , an earthquake prediction must be precise enough to warrant the cost  of  increased  एहतियात  , including disruption  of   ordinary   क्रियाएँ  and commerce  ,  and timely enough that preparation can be made .
Predictions  जरूर  also be reliable , as false alarms and cancelled alarms are not only  economically  costly ,  लकिन   seriously  undermine confidence in , and thereby the effectiveness of ,  कोई  kind  of  warning .
With  over  7,000  भूकंप  around the world each year with a magnitude of 4.0 or greater , trivial success in earthquake prediction is  easily  obtained using sufficiently broad parameters of time , location , or magnitude .
However , such trivial `` successful predictions '' are not useful  .
Major earthquakes are often followed by reports that they were predicted , or  at  least anticipated , but  no  claim of a successful prediction of a  प्रमुख  earthquake has survived close inquiry .
In the 1970s there  थी  intense  आशावाद   amongst  scientists that  कुछ  method of predicting earthquakes  might  be found , but by the 1990s  continuing  failure led many scientists to question whether it was even  संभावित  .
While many scientists still hold that , given enough resources  ,  prediction might be possible , many others maintain  कि  earthquake prediction is inherently  नामुमकिन  .
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan ( born May 13  ,  1993  )  is an American actress , singer , musician , songwriter and record producer .
रयान  is best known for starring as Bailey Pickett  in   the  Disney Channel Original Series  the   सुइट   जीवन  on Deck .
In 2008 ,  the  Suite Life on Deck ranked as TV 's top series among  बच्चे   6-11  and the No  .  2 scripted series  among  tweens 9-14 .
रयान  started acting in professional theatres at the age of seven ; in 2007 she appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-DVD film Barney : Let 's Go to the Firehouse and then was discovered  in  a nationwide search by Disney .
She is also known for appearing in the 2008 feature film The  longshots  as Edith .
In 2009  ,  she guest starred in an episode of Wizards of Waverly Place in Wizards on Deck with Hannah Montana as Bailey Pickett along with  उसके  other cast  mates  from The Suite Life on Deck .
Then , in  2010  ,  वो  starred  in  the film 16  बधाइयां  , which was the most watched cable program on the day of its premiere on the Disney Channel  .
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to new audiences ; the movie received  ऊँची  viewership in the adults demographic ( 18-34 ) .
Soon after that , Ryan starred in the  स्वतंत्र   नाट्य  film , What  if  ... , which premiered on August 20 , 2010 .
Ryan also starred in  the   नई   डिज़्नी  Channel Original movie , Radio  विद्रोही  , where she portrays the role of Tara Adams , a shy 17-year-old girl who adopts the radio personality , Radio Rebel .
released  February 17 , 2012 .
Ryan stars  in  the titular role in the Disney Channel Original Series , Jessie .
Stührling Tourbillon Movement (  )  .
in  horology , a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind ''  )  is an addition to the  यांत्रिकी   of  a watch escapement .
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss watchmaker Abraham-Louis Breguet from an earlier idea by the English chronometer maker John Arnold , a tourbillon aims to counter  the  effects of gravity  by  mounting the  escapement  and balance  व्हील  in a  घूर्णन  cage , to negate the effect of gravity when the  timepiece  ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a  निश्चित  position .
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy , tourbillons are  स्टिल  included in some expensive modern watches as a novelty and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity .
The mechanism is usually exposed on the watch 's face to show it off .
The Windows Installer ( previously known as Microsoft  installer  ) is a software component used for the installation , maintenance , and removal  of  software on modern Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ  systems .
The installation information , and often  the  files themselves , are  packaged  in installation  पैकेज  , loosely relational  databases  structured as COM Structured Storages and commonly known  as  `` MSI files  ''  , from their default  संचिका  extension  .
Windows Installer contains significant changes from  इसके  predecessor , Setup API .
New features  शामिल   a   जीयूआई  framework and automatic generation of the uninstallation sequence .
Windows Installer is positioned as an alternative to stand-alone executable installer frameworks such as older versions  of  InstallShield and NSIS .
Microsoft encourages third parties to use Windows Installer as the basis for installation frameworks , so that they synchronize correctly with other installers and keep the internal database of installed products consistent .
Important features such as rollback and versioning depend on a consistent internal database for reliable operation .
Furthermore , Windows Installer facilitates the principle of least privilege by  performing  software  संस्थापना  by proxy for unprivileged users .
Four Loko is a line of alcoholic beverages ,  originally  marketed as energy drinks , sold by Phusion Projects  of  Chicago , Illinois .
phusion  operates as  पेय  Four Brewing Company  .
Four Loko , the company 's most popular beverage , debuted in the United States market in 2005 .
It is now  बेची  in  48  states , and  in  Canada ,  the  Bahamas , Bolivia ,  होंडुरास  , and Europe .
The name `` Four '' is  निकला  from the original energy drink 's four main ingredients  :  alcohol , caffeine , taurine , and guarana .
Four branded products have been the object of legal , ethical , and health concerns related to the company allegedly marketing them to the underaged and the purported  खतरे   of  combining alcohol and caffeine .
After the beverage was banned  in  several states , a product reintroduction in December 2010 removed caffeine  ,  taurine  ,  and guarana as ingredients , and the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an  उर्जा  drink .
The neck  of  a guitar showing the nut ( in the background , coloured white ) and first four metal frets .
A  fret  is  a  raised element on the neck of a stringed instrument .
Frets usually extend across the full width of the neck .
On  सबसे  modern western fretted instruments , frets are metal strips inserted into the fingerboard .
On some historical instruments  और  non-European  यंत्र  , frets are made of pieces of string tied around the neck .
Frets divide the neck into fixed segments at intervals related to a musical framework  .
On instruments such as guitars , each fret represents one semitone in the standard western system where one octave is divided into twelve semitones .
Fret is often used as a verb , meaning simply `` to press down  the  string behind a fret . ''
Fretting often refers to the frets and/or their system of placement .
There was consumption of alcohol both during and  बाद  prohibition .
The 18th Amendment prohibited the production , distribution and sale of alcoholic beverages in the United States and was  widely   समर्थित  by the American public when it went into effect in 1920 .
The temperance movement had popularized the belief that  दारू  was the major cause of most personal and  सोशल  problems and prohibition was seen as the solution to the nation 's poverty , crime , violence , and other ills .
Upon ratification of the amendment , the famous evangelist Billy  संडे  said that `` The slums will soon be  तभी  a memory .
We will turn our prisons into  कारखानों  and our jails into storehouses and corncribs . ''
( Compare Christianity and  दारू  . )
Since alcohol  थी  to  be  banned and since  it  was seen as the cause of most  ,  if not all , crime , some communities sold their jails .
The nation was highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the United States  कॉंग्रेस  confidently asserted that ``  वहीँ  is as much chance  of  repealing the Eighteenth Amendment as there  is  for a hummingbird to fly to the planet Mars  साथ  the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
the  metre (  मीटर  in American English ) , ( SI unit  प्रतीक  : m ; SI dimension symbol : L ) , is the fundamental unit of length in the International System of  इकाई  ( SI ) .
Originally  intended  to  be  one ten-millionth of the distance from the Earth 's equator  to  the North  ध्रुव  ( at sea level ) , its definition has been periodically refined to reflect growing knowledge of metrology .
Since 1983 , it has  महरूम  defined as `` the length of the path travelled by light in vacuum during  a  time interval of 1/299,792,458  of  a second . ''
Geologists  exploring  Jurassic sedimentary rocks in Makhtesh Gadol , Negev Desert ,  इसराईल
Geologists explaining the importance  of  volcanic ash layers to students on field in Iceland
A geologist is a scientist  जो   अध्ययन  the solid and liquid matter that constitutes the Earth as well as the processes and history that has shaped it .
Geologists usually engage in studying geology .
Geologists , studying more  of  an applied science  than  a theoretical one , must approach Geology using physics , chemistry and  जीवविज्ञान   as  well as other sciences .
Geologists , compared to scientists engaged in other fields , are generally more exposed to  the   बाहरी  than  रहकर   in  laboratories ; although some geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab  .
Geologists are engaged in exploration for mining companies in search of metals , oils  ,  and other Earth resources .
They are also in the forefront of natural hazards and disasters  चेतावनी  and mitigation , studying earthquakes , volcanic activity , tsunamis , weather storms , and the like ;  उनके  studies are used to warn the general public  of  the occurrence of these events .
Currently , geologists are also engaged in  the  discussion of climate change , as they study the history and evidence for this  धरती  process .
Below is a  व्यापक  drill and tap  आकार  chart for all drills , imperial and metric , and taps up to 36.5 mm .
Modern  वैक्यूम  tubes  ,  mostly miniature style
In electronics , a vacuum tube , electron tube ( in North  अमेरिका  ) , thermionic valve , tube , or valve is a device controlling electric current through a vacuum in a sealed container .
The container is often thin transparent glass  in  a roughly cylindrical shape .
The simplest  वैक्यूम  tube , the diode  ,   is  essentially an  incandescent  light bulb with an  added  electrode inside .
जब  the  बल्ब  's filament is heated white-hot , electrons are `` boiled '' off its surface and into the vacuum inside the bulb .
If the electrode -- called a `` plate '' or `` anode '' -- is  बना  more positive than the hot filament , a direct current  बहती  through the  वैक्यूम   to   the  electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison effect ) .
As the current only flows in one direction , it makes  it  possible to convert an alternating current applied to the filament to direct current .
the  introduction of a third electrode , a grid between the filament and the plate , yields another function .
A voltage applied to the grid controls  the  current  बहती  from the filament to the plate .
यूँ  , it allows the device to be used as an electronic amplifier  .
Vacuum tubes are thus  प्रयुक्त  for rectification ,  प्रवर्धन  , switching , or  समान  processing or creation of electrical  सिग्नल  .
The vast majority of  आधुनिक  day tubes consist of a sealed container with  a  vacuum inside , and  essentially  rely on thermionic emission of electrons from  a  hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament .
Some exceptions to this are dealt with in the  खण्ड  about gas-filled tubes below .
Vacuum tubes were critical to the development of  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  technology  ,  which drove the expansion and commercialization of radio broadcasting , television , radar , sound reinforcement , sound recording and reproduction , large telephone networks , analog and  डिजिटल  computers , and industrial process control .
Although some applications had counterparts using  पहले  technologies such as the spark gap transmitter or mechanical computers , it was the invention of  the  vacuum tube with three electrodes ( called a triode )  और  its capability of electronic  प्रवर्धन  that made these technologies widespread and practical .
In most applications , solid-state devices such  as  transistors and other semiconductor devices have replaced tubes  .
Solid-state devices last longer and are  छोटी  , more efficient , more reliable , and cheaper than tubes .
tubes  can be fragile , sometimes generate  significant  unwanted heat , and can take many seconds—many minutes in critical applications—after powering on to warm to a temperature where they perform within operational tolerance .
However , tubes still find uses where solid-state devices have not been developed , are impractical  ,  or where a tube has superior  प्रदर्शन  , as with some devices in professional audio and high-power radio transmitters .
Tubes  हैं  still produced for such applications .
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be destroyed by the electromagnetic pulse produced by  नाभिकीय  explosions and geomagnetic storms produced by giant solar flares .
Skittles is a brand of  fruit-flavoured  sweets , currently produced and marketed by  the  Wm . Wrigley Jr. Company , a division of Mars , Inc .
They  have  hard  शुगर  shells  जिससे  carry the letter S .
The inside is mainly sugar  ,  corn syrup  ,  and hydrogenated  ताड़  kernel oil along with fruit juice , citric acid , and natural and artificial  चटपटा  .
the  confectionery has been sold in a variety of  फ्लेवर  collections ,  ऐसे  as Tropical and Wild Berry .
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill , ( 30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965 ) was a British politician who was the Prime Minister of the United  किंगडम  from 1940 to 1945  और  again from 1951 to 1955 .
Widely regarded as one of the greatest wartime leaders of the 20th century ,  चर्चिल   थी  also an officer in the  अंग्रेजों  Army , a historian , a writer , and an artist .
He is the only British  प्रधान   मंत्री  in history to have received the Nobel Prize in  साहित्य  , and was also the  पहला  person to be made an Honorary Citizen of  the  United States .
Churchill was born into  an  aristocratic family  as  the grandson of the 7th Duke of Marlborough .
His father , Lord Randolph Churchill , was a charismatic politician who served as Chancellor of the Exchequer ; his mother ,  jennie  Jerome , was an American socialite .
As a young army officer , he saw action in British India ,  the  Sudan , and the Second Boer War  .
He gained fame as a war  correspondent  and wrote books about  उसके  campaigns .
At the forefront of politics for fifty years , he  आयोजित  many political and cabinet positions .
Before the First World War , he served as President of the Board of  व्यापार  , Home Secretary , and First Lord of the Admiralty as part of the Asquith Liberal government .
During the war , he continued as First Lord of the Admiralty until the disastrous Gallipoli Campaign caused his departure from government  .
He then briefly  resumed  active  फौज  service on  the  Western Front as commander of the 6th Battalion of the Royal Scots  fusiliers  .
He returned to government  as  Minister of  munitions  , Secretary of State for  युद्ध  , and Secretary of State for Air .
After the War , Churchill served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Conservative  (  Baldwin  )  government of 1924–29 , controversially  returning  the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard  at  its pre-war parity  ,  a move widely seen  as  creating deflationary pressure  on  the UK  अर्थव्यवस्था  .
Also controversial was his opposition to increased home rule for India and his resistance to the 1936 abdication of Edward VIII .
आउट  of office and politically  ``  in the wilderness '' during the 1930s , Churchill took the lead in warning  परिचय  Nazi Germany and in campaigning for rearmament .
On the outbreak of the Second World War ,  he  was again  नियुक्त  First Lord of the Admiralty .
Following the resignation of Neville Chamberlain on 10 May 1940 , Churchill became Prime Minister .
His  वफ़ादार  refusal to consider defeat  ,  surrender , or a compromise peace helped inspire  अंग्रेजों  resistance , especially during the difficult early days of the War when Britain stood alone among European countries in its active opposition to Adolf Hitler .
Churchill was particularly noted for  उसके  speeches and radio broadcasts , which helped inspire the British people .
He led Britain as Prime Minister until  विजय  over Nazi Germany had  महरूम  secured .
After the  रूढ़िवादी  Party lost  the   1945   चुनाव  , he  became  Leader of the Opposition  to  the Labour  (  Attlee ) government .
After winning the 1951  चुनाव  ,  he  again became Prime  मंत्री  , before retiring in 1955 .
Upon his death , Elizabeth II granted  उसे  the honour of a state funeral , which saw one of the largest assemblies of world statesmen in history .
Named the Greatest Briton of all time in a 2002 poll , Churchill is widely regarded as  होने  among the most influential people in British history  .
Ruby Gloom  is  an animated television show based on an apparel franchise .
The show is produced by Nelvana and began airing on October  13  , 2006 in Canada on the  संजाल  YTV .
It stars  the  voices of Sarah Gadon , Emily Hampshire , and Peter Keleghan .
The Ford Focus is a compact car (  c-segment  in  यूरोपीय  ) manufactured by the Ford Motor Company since 1998 .
Ford began sales of  the   फ़ोकस  to Europe in July 1998 and in North America during 1999 for the  2000  model year .
in   यूरोपीय  , South America , North America and South Africa ,  the  Focus replaced the various versions of the Ford  अनुरक्षण  sold in those markets  .
In Asia and Australasia , it replaced the Ford Laser .
As of the first half of 2012 , the Focus  surpassed   the  Toyota Corolla to become the world 's best  selling  automobile nameplate .
The Focus has  महरूम  considered one of the 50  महानतम  cars of the past fifty years by British magazine CAR .
An agar plate -- an example of a bacterial growth medium .
Specifically , it is a streak plate ; the orange lines and dots are formed by bacterial colonies .
A growth medium or culture medium is a liquid or  gel  designed to support the growth  of  microorganisms or cells , or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens .
There are different types of media for growing different types  of  cells .
There are two major types of  विकास  media :  those  used for cell culture , which use specific cell types derived from plants or animals , and microbiological culture , which are used for growing microorganisms  ,  such as  जीवाणु  or yeast .
The  सबसे  common growth  मीडिया  for microorganisms are  nutrient  broths and agar  प्लेटों  ; specialized  मीडिया   हैं  sometimes required for microorganism and cell culture growth .
Some organisms ,  termed  fastidious organisms  ,  require specialized environments due to complex nutritional requirements .
Viruses , for example , are obligate intracellular parasites  और  require a growth medium containing living cells .
A talent agent , or booking agent , is  a  person who finds jobs for actors  ,  authors , film directors , musicians , models , producers , professional athletes , writers and other  लोगों  in various entertainment businesses .
An agent also defends , supports and promotes the interest of his/her clients .
Agents can not produce their own shows due to conflict of interest .
A talent  एजेंट  must be  परिचित  with their clients .
An agent has to know what kind of work the client can and can  नहीं  do in  अनुक्रम  to match them with various jobs .
Having  an  agent is not  जरूरी  ,  लकिन  does help the artist in getting jobs .
In many cases casting directors , or other businesses , go to talent  एजेंसियों  to find artists they are looking for .
The agent is paid a percentage of the  स्टार  's earnings ( typically 10 % ) .
Agents sometimes will be  referred  to as  ``  10  percenters  . ''
वहीँ  are different regulations that govern different types of agents that are established by artist 's unions and the legal jurisdiction in which the agent operates .
There  हैं  also professional organizations that license talent agencies .
Since the decline in viewership in theaters , from the 1950s to 1960s , this caused a monumental shift in how studios would produce films and thus reducing the cost of exclusive  और  expensive actors .
Actors and actresses were working for the studios but were not owned  by  one major studio entity and so were able to work on within their time and with  अन्य   studios  .
Because of this , agents were now  देखी  as a necessity instead of an option  .
Agents now became third parties that negotiated between studios and clients , this making their services imperative between each party .
Since talent agencies are working  साथ  lucrative contracts , all talent agencies must be licensed  अंतर्गत  special sections of the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  Labor  कोड   ,  which calls an agent a  ``  person or corporation  जो  engages in the occupation of procuring , offering , promising , or attempting to procure employment for artist or artists . ''
Mars has two known moons , Phobos and  deimos  , which are thought to be captured asteroids .
Both satellites were discovered in 1877 by Asaph Hall and are named after  the  characters Phobos ( panic/fear )  और  Deimos ( terror/dread ) who , in Greek mythology , accompanied their father Ares , god of war , into  बैटल  .
Ares was known  as  Mars to the Romans  .
It is possible that Mars may have moons smaller than 50 - 100 meters and a dust ring between  phobos  and Deimos may be  उपस्थित  but none have been discovered  .
In law enforcement parlance , the term murder book refers to  the  case file of a murder investigation .
Typically , murder books include crime scene photographs and sketches , autopsy and forensic reports , transcripts of investigators ' notes  और  witness interviews  .
The murder book encapsulates the complete paper trail of a murder investigation , from the time the murder is first reported through  the  arrest of a suspect .
Law enforcement agencies typically  गार्ड  murder books carefully ,  और  it is  असामान्य  for civilians to be given unfettered access to these kinds  of  records  ,  especially for unsolved cases .
A melon  baller
Melon balls are balls of melon made using a melon baller that varies from around 1 centimeter to  3  centimeters ( about 3/8 inch to 1 inch ) .
They are generally used  in  fruit salad .
A  ksa  , or Knowledge , Skills , and Abilities , is a series of narrative statements that are required when applying to United States Federal government job openings .
KSAs are used to determine , along  साथ  resumes , who the best applicants are when several candidates qualify for a job .
The knowledge  ,  skills and  abilities  ( KSAs ) necessary for the successful performance  of  a position  हैं  contained on each job vacancy announcement .
In 2009 the Office of Personal Management asked  संघीय  agencies  to  stop  requiring  job applicants to fill out the questionnaires , to be phased  आउट  within a year .
KSAs are  ब्रैड  and focused essays about  एक  's career and educational background that presumably qualify one to perform the duties of the position being applied for .
A knowledge , skills , and  abilities  ( KSA ) is a concise essay about one 's talent and expertise and  सम्बन्धित  experiences ( work , education , volunteer ) and accomplishments .
A series of  ksa  statements are usually required when applying  लिये  most federal government and some state and  नगर  government jobs .
KSAs are used as a yardstick to assess the capabilities of a prospective applicant in  शर्तें  of likely ability to  perform  the duties of the job .
Most government  भर्ती   officials  look for a short , crisp  और  clear KSA that emphasizes results or accomplishments obtained in previous work .
KSA  कथन  are  भी  known as Evaluation Factors .
Other agencies sometimes call them `` Rating Factors '' ,  ``  Quality Ranking Factors '' , `` Knowledge , Abilities , skills and Other Characteristics '' , or `` Job  तत्व  '' .
The  नाम  can be just a name but often it influences content and length of the essay  .
Every agency has its own regulations but most of the  समय  the each KSA factor should be 1/2 to 11⁄2 pages long .
The below definitions are defined by the U.S.  दफ्तर  of Personnel Management :
Knowledge ,  कौशल  , and Abilities ( KSAs ) - The attributes required to perform a job and are generally demonstrated through  qualifying  service , education , or training .
ज्ञान  - Is a body of information applied directly to the  प्रदर्शन  of a function .
Skill - Is an observable competence to  perform  a learned psychomotor act .
Ability - Is  competence  to perform an observable behavior or a behavior that results in an observable  उत्पाद  .
The scoring of KSA essays is based on a scale of from one to 100 .
Job applicants must score above 70 to be considered for  the  position .
High scores are derived through answering the KSA question as specifically as possible , providing examples  इससे   पिछला  employment or training that clearly demonstrate you meet the qualifications .
जब  applying to federal government  स्थितियाँ  , a Federal Resume is usually required in addition to KSA statements .
right
Whole grains are cereal grains that  contain  cereal  रोगाणु  , endosperm , and bran , in contrast to refined grains , which retain only the endosperm .
Common whole grains include:
Wheat
Oat
Barley -  hulled  and Dehulled ( not Pearl )
Maize
Brown rice
Farro
Spelt
Emmer
Einkorn
Kamut
Rye
Millet
Quinoa
Amaranth
Triticale
Teff
Sprouted Grains
Buckwheat
Common whole grain products include:
Whole  गेहूं  flour
पूरे  wheat Bread
पूरे  wheat Pasta
Rolled oats or oat groats
Triticale flour
Popcorn
Teff flour
Common refined  non-whole  grain products include:
Love Always is the  डेब्यू  album of American R & B duo K-Ci & JoJo , released on June 17 , 1997  ,  by MCA Records .
It was  अंकित  at various studios in New  यॉर्क  and the Los Angeles area in 1996 and 1997 .
It was  उत्पादित  by JoJo  और  several  अन्य  , including DeVante  झूले  , James Mtume , and Jeff  redd   .
The duo were originally a part  of  Jodeci  पहले  this album .
the  album peaked at sixth on the  us  Billboard 200 and also appeared on international charts .
The single ``  सब   my  Life  ``  charted number one in multiple countries , and all four of the album 's  singles  peaked above the top 25 in the US Hot  r  & B/Hip-Hop Songs and the New Zealand Top 40 Singles .
Love Always was received favorably by critics , who praised the brothers ' singing ability and the production .
The album has been certified three times platinum by the Recording Industry  संघ  of America ( RIAA ) and gold by Music Canada and IFPI Sweden .
As  of  June 1999 it had  बेची  2.9 million copies in the United States .
A variable-rate mortgage , adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM ) , or tracker mortgage  is  a mortgage  ऋण  with the interest  रेट   on  the note periodically adjusted based on an index which reflects the cost to the lender of borrowing on the credit markets .
The loan may be offered at the lender 's standard  परिवर्तनीय  rate/ base rate .
There may be a direct and legally-defined link to the underlying index , but where the lender offers no  विशिष्ट  link  to  the underlying market or  अनुक्रमणिका  the rate can be changed  at  the lender 's discretion .
The term ``  variable-rate  mortgage '' is most common outside the United States , whilst in the United States , `` adjustable-rate mortgage '' is most  आम  , and implies a  बंधक  regulated by the Federal government , with caps on charges .
In many countries , adjustable rate mortgages are the norm , and in  ऐसे  places , may simply be referred to as mortgages  .
Among the most common indices are the rates on 1-year constant-maturity Treasury ( CMT ) securities  ,  the Cost of  निधि  Index ( COFI ) , and the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) .
A few lenders use their own cost of funds as an index  ,  rather than using other indices  .
This is done  to  ensure a steady margin for  the  lender , whose own cost of funding will usually be related to the index .
Consequently ,  भुगतान  made by the borrower may change over time with the  बदलना  interest rate ( alternatively  ,   the  term of the loan may change ) .
This is distinct from the  ग्रैजुएट  payment mortgage ,  जिससे  offers changing payment amounts but a  फिक्स्ड  interest rate .
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest only mortgage , the fixed rate mortgage , the  ऋणात्मक  amortization mortgage  ,  and the balloon payment mortgage .
Adjustable  दरों  transfer  भाग   of  the interest rate risk from the lender to the  borrower  .
They can be used where unpredictable interest rates make fixed rate loans difficult  to  obtain .
The borrower benefits  if  the interest rate falls but loses if  the  interest rate increases .
the  borrower  लाभ  from reduced margins to the underlying cost of borrowing compared to fixed or capped rate mortgages .
The assassination of  रॉबर्ट  Francis ``  bobby  '' Kennedy , a United States Senator and  bhai  of assassinated President John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ,  took  place shortly after midnight on June 5 , 1968 , in Los Angeles , California ,  दौरान  the campaign season for the United States Presidential election  ,  1968 .
After winning  the  California and South Dakota primary elections  लिये  the Democratic nomination for  अध्यक्ष  of the United States , Kennedy was shot as he walked through  the  kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel and died  in  the Good Samaritan Hospital twenty-six hours  बाद  .
Sirhan Sirhan , a 24-year-old Palestinian / Jordanian immigrant , was convicted of Kennedy 's murder and is  सेवारत  a life sentence for the crime .
Sirhan 's lawyers  have  released statements claiming evidence that  he  was framed .
The shooting was  अंकित  on audio tape by a freelance newspaper reporter , and  the   aftermath  was captured on film .
Kennedy 's body lay in repose at St. Patrick 's Cathedral in New York for two  दिनों  before a funeral mass was held on June 8 .
His body was  interred  near his brother John at Arlington National Cemetery .
His death prompted the protection of presidential candidates by the United States Secret Service  .
Hubert Humphrey  गई  on to  जीत  the Democratic nomination for the presidency , but ultimately narrowly lost the election to Richard Nixon .
as  with his brother Jack 's death , Bobby 's assassination and the circumstances surrounding it have spawned a variety of conspiracy theories .
As of 2013 Kennedy remains one of only  दो  sitting United States  सीनेटरों  to be  assassinated  ( the other being Huey Long ) .
The Modern Age of Comic Books is an informal name for the period in the history  of  mainstream American comic books generally considered to last  इससे  the mid-1980s until present day .
In this period , comic book characters  generally  became darker and more psychologically complex ,  creators  became better-known and active in changing the industry , independent comics flourished ,  और  larger  प्रकाशन  houses became more commercialized .
An  वैकल्पिक  name for this period is the Dark Age  of  Comic Books , due to the popularity and artistic influence of grim titles , such  as  and Watchmen .
When Harry Met Sally ... is a 1989 American  रोमांटिक  comedy  फिल्मी  written by Nora Ephron and  निर्देशित  by Rob Reiner .
It stars Billy Crystal as  हैरी  and Meg Ryan as Sally .
The story follows the  शीर्षक  characters from  the  time they meet just before sharing a cross-country drive , through twelve years or so of  मौका  encounters in New York City .
The film raises the question `` Can  मेन  and women ever  बस  be friends ? '' and advances many ideas about relationships that became household concepts  ,  such as those  of  the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person '' .
The origins of the film came from Reiner 's return to single life after  a  divorce .
An interview  ephron   conducted  with  reiner  provided the basis for Harry .
Sally was based on Ephron and some  of  her  मित्रों  .
Crystal came on board  और  made his own contributions to the screenplay  ,   बनाना   हैरी  funnier .
Ephron supplied the structure of the  फिल्मी  with much of the dialogue based on the real-life friendship between  reiner   और   क्रिस्टल  .
The soundtrack consists of standards performed by Harry Connick , Jr. , with a  बिग  band and orchestra arranged by Marc Shaiman .
Connick  जीती  his first Grammy  पुरस्कार  for Best Jazz Male Vocal Performance .
Columbia Pictures released the film using the `` platform ''  तकनीक  , which involved opening it in a few select cities , letting positive word of mouth generate interest , and then gradually expanding distribution over subsequent  सप्ताह  .
When Harry Met Sally ... grossed a total of US $ 92 .8 million in North America .
Ephron received a British Academy Film Award ,  an  Oscar nomination , and a Writers Guild of America Award  नामांकन  for her screenplay .
The film is ranked  23rd  on AFI 's 100 Years ... 100 Laughs list of the  शीर्ष  comedy films in  अमरीकी  cinema and number 60 on Bravo 's `` 100 Funniest Movies  ''  .
In  जल्दी  2004 ,  the  film  थी  adapted for the stage  in  a production starring Luke Perry and Alyson Hannigan .
200px
Hamburger Helper  is  a line of packaged food products primarily consisting of  boxed  pasta bundled with a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings  .
The contents of each box  हैं  combined with browned ground beef , water and milk to create  a  complete dish .
The  उत्पाद  line also features products with  अन्य  starches such as rice or potatoes instead of pasta .
It  is  made by General Mills .
Although the classic boxed Hamburger Helper products only supply the starch item and the sauce packets , some varieties of the product include  मैदान   बीफ  .
These include a frozen food line , which features some  of  the brand 's classic varieties in a complete meal kit form , with frozen ground beef and frozen sauce  packaged  separately from the  नूडल्स  in the same bag .
There is also an `` instant '' version of Hamburger Helper containing dehydrated meat ,  नूडल्स  and seasonings in a small pouch ,  requiring   तभी  water to be  added  .
The Hamburger Helper mascot is the `` Helping  हाथ  '' , an anthropomorphic animated , four  fingered  left-hand glove , which appears in the product 's television commercials and on the packages .
Ceres as seen with  the  Hubble Space Telescope  .
It is  the  only dwarf  ग्रह  in the asteroid belt .
Pluto  in  approximate true colour based on Hubble Space Telescope albedo data
Haumea with its moons ,  hiʻiaka  and  namaka  ( artist 's conception )
Makemake ( artist 's conception )
Eris  और  its  चंद्रमा  Dysnomia as seen with the Hubble Space Telescope
A dwarf  ग्रह  is a planetary-mass object that is neither  a  planet nor a satellite .
More explicitly , the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a dwarf planet as a celestial body in direct  कक्षा  of the Sun that is massive enough for its shape to be controlled by gravitation , but that  नापसंद  a planet has not cleared its orbital region of other objects .
The term dwarf  ग्रह  was adopted in 2006  as  part of a three-way categorization of bodies  orbiting  the Sun , brought about  by  an  बढ़ाएँ  in  discoveries  of trans-Neptunian objects that rivaled Pluto in size ,  और  finally precipitated by  the  discovery of an even more massive object , Eris .
This classification states that bodies large enough to have cleared the neighbourhood of their orbit  हैं  defined  as  planets , while those that  हैं  not massive enough to be rounded by their own gravity are defined as small Solar System bodies .
Dwarf planets come  in  between .
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the roster  of  planets by the IAU has been both praised and criticized ; it was said to  be  the  ``   सही  decision  ''  by Mike Brown  ,  who discovered and  अन्य  new dwarf planets , but has been rejected by Alan Stern , who had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990 .
The IAU  फिलहाल  recognizes five dwarf planets  in  the Solar System : , Pluto , , , and .
however  , only two of these bodies , Ceres and  प्लूटो  , have been  observed  in enough detail  to  demonstrate  कि  they fit the definition .
Eris has been accepted as a dwarf planet because it is  अधिक  massive than  प्लूटो  .
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed trans-Neptunian objects with an absolute magnitude brighter than +1 ( and hence a diameter of ≥838  km  assuming  a  geometric  ऐल्बीडो  of ≤1 ) are  to  be named under the assumption that they are dwarf planets .
The only two such objects known at the time , Makemake and Haumea , went through  इस  naming procedure  और   यहूद  declared to  be  dwarf planets .
It is suspected that another hundred or so known objects in the Solar System are dwarf planets  .
Estimates are that up to 200 dwarf planets may be found when the entire region known as the Kuiper belt is explored , and that the number may exceed 10,000 when objects scattered outside the Kuiper belt are considered .
Individual astronomers recognize several of these , and in August 2011 Mike Brown published a list of 390 candidate objects , ranging from `` nearly certain '' to `` possible '' dwarf planets . '
Brown identifies nine known objects – the five accepted by the IAU plus , , , and – as `` virtually certain '' , with  another  two dozen  अत्यधिक  likely , and there are probably a hundred or so  ऐसे  objects in total .
The  वर्गीकरण  of bodies in other planetary systems with the characteristics of dwarf planets has not been addressed .
A debit  कार्ड  ( also known as a  बैंको  card or check card ) is a plastic payment card that  provides  the cardholder electronic access to his or her bank account ( s ) at a financial institution .
Some cards have  a  stored value with which a payment is made , while  सबसे  relay a message to the  cardholder   's  bank to withdraw funds from a payee 's designated bank account .
The card , where accepted , can be used instead of  नकदी  when  बनाना  purchases .
In some cases , the primary account number is assigned exclusively for  उपयोग  on the  अंतरजाल  and  वहीँ  is no physical card .
In many countries , the use of debit  ताश   रै  become so widespread that their volume has overtaken or entirely replaced cheques and , in some instances , cash transactions  .
The development of debit cards , unlike credit  ताश  and charge cards , has generally been country specific resulting in  a  number of different systems around the world , which were  प्रायः  incompatible .
Since the mid-2000s , a number of initiatives have allowed debit cards issued in one country to be  प्रयुक्त  in other  देशों  and allowed their use for internet and phone purchases .
Unlike credit and charge cards , payments using a debit card are immediately transferred from  the  cardholder 's designated bank account , instead of them paying the  धन  back at a later date .
Debit cards usually also allow for instant withdrawal of cash , acting as  the  ATM card for withdrawing cash .
Merchants may also offer cashback facilities  to  customers ,  जहाँ   a  customer can withdraw cash along with their purchase .
francois  Henri `` Jack '' LaLanne ( September 26 , 1914 - January 23  ,  2011 ) was an  अमरीकी  fitness , exercise , and nutritional expert and motivational speaker who is sometimes  पुकारा  `` the godfather of fitness '' and the `` first fitness  सुपरहीरो  . ''
He described himself as being a `` sugarholic '' and  a  `` junk food junkie '' until he was 15 .
he  also had behavioral problems , but `` turned his life around '' after listening to a public lecture by Paul Bragg , a well-known nutrition speaker .
During his career , he came to believe that the country 's overall  स्वास्थ्य  depended on the health of its population , writing that  ``  physical culture and nutrition — is the salvation of America . ''
Decades before health and fitness began being promoted by celebrities like Jane  फोंडा  and Richard Simmons , LaLanne was already  widely  recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of regular exercise and a good diet .
he  published numerous books on fitness and hosted a fitness television show between 1953 and 1985 .
As early as 1936 , at age 21 ,  he  opened one of the nation 's first fitness  gyms  in Oakland , California , which became a prototype for dozens of similar gyms using his name  .
One of his  1950s  television exercise programs was  aimed  toward women ,  जिसको  he also encouraged to join his health clubs .
he  invented a number  of  exercise machines  ,  including leg-extension and pulley devices .
besides  producing his own series of videos , he coached the elderly and disabled not to forgo exercise , believing it would enable them to  बढ़ाएँ  their strength  .
LaLanne also gained recognition for his success as a bodybuilder , as well as for his prodigious feats  of  strength .
Arnold Schwarzenegger once  stated  , `` That Jack LaLanne 's an animal !  ,  '' after LaLanne , at 54 , beat a 21-year-old Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an informal contest .
On the occasion of LaLanne 's death , Schwarzenegger credited LaLanne for being `` an apostle for fitness '' by inspiring  ``   अरबों  all over the world to live healthier lives , '' and , as governor of California , had earlier placed him on  उसके  Governor 's Council on Physical Fitness .
Steve Reeves credited LaLanne  as  his inspiration to build his muscular physique while keeping a slim waist .
He was inducted to the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  Hall of Fame and has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
Air forces of most of the countries use system similar to Armies .
However , the RAF and the air  शक्तियां  of many Commonwealth countries , or those formerly under a British influence , use a different set of ranks  loosely  based  on  naval  समतुल्यता  ; Lieutenant , Commander , Captain  और  Commodore are prefixed for air force use with Flight , Wing  ,  Group  और  Air , respectively ( the first three being the units that they used to command ) .
Penélope Cruz  sánchez  ( ; born April 28 , 1974  )  is a Spanish actress .
Signed by an agent at age 15 , she made her acting debut at 16 on television and her feature film debut the  following  year in Jamón  ,  jamón ( 1992 )  ,   to  critical acclaim .
Her subsequent roles  in  the 1990s and 2000s included Open Your  आँखें   (   1997  ) , The Hi-Lo Country ( 1999 ) , The Girl of Your Dreams ( 2000 )  और  Woman  on  Top ( 2000 ) .
Cruz achieved  मान्यता  for her lead roles in  the  2001 films Vanilla Sky and Blow .
She has since built a successful career , appearing  in  films from a wide range of genres , including the comedy Waking Up in Reno (  2002  )  ,   the  thriller Gothika ( 2003 ) , the Christmas  फिल्म   नोएल  ( 2004  )  , and the action adventure Sahara (  2005  ) .
She has received critical  acclaim  for her roles in Volver ( 2006  )  and Nine ( 2009 ) receiving Golden Globe and Academy Award nominations for each .
She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 2008 for Vicky Cristina Barcelona .
She was  the  first Spanish actress in history to receive an Academy Award and the first Spanish actress to receive a star at the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
Cruz has  modeled  for companies such as  आम  , Ralph Lauren  और  L'Oréal .
Penélope and  उसके  younger sister Mónica Cruz have  designed  items for Mango .
She has donated both her time and money to charities .
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda and India ,  जहाँ  she spent one week working for Mother Teresa ; she donated her salary from ' to help fund the late nun  's  mission .
A wax sculpture of Cruz will be placed in  a  premier spot in the Grevin Wax Museum in  पेरिस  .
संचिका  Explorer , previously known as Windows Explorer , is a file  मैनेजर  application and also a navigation tool that is included with releases of the Microsoft Windows operating system from  खिड़कियाँ  95 onwards .
It provides a graphical user interface for accessing the  संचिका  systems .
It is also the component of  the  operating system that presents many  उपयोक्ता  interface items on the  मॉनिटर  such as the taskbar and desktop .
Controlling the computer is possible without Windows Explorer  कार्यशील  ( for example , the File | Run command in  कार्य  Manager on NT-derived versions of  खिड़कियाँ  will  फलन  without it , as will commands  typed  in a command prompt window ) .
Located in the C : \Windows  निर्देशिका  , it is sometimes referred to as the Windows  शेल  , explorer.exe , or simply “Explorer” .
The  परवाह  Bears are characters created by American Greetings in 1981 for use on greeting cards .
The original artwork for  the  cards was painted by artist Elena Kucharik .
In 1983 , Kenner  turned  the Care Bears into plush teddy bears .
The Care Bears appeared in their own TV specials  पुकारा  The Care Bears in the Land  बगैर  Feelings ( 1983 ) and The Care Bears Battle the Freeze Machine ( 1984 ) .
They also had  उनके  own television series from 1985 to 1988 , in addition to three feature films : The Care Bears Movie ( 1985 ) , Care Bears Movie II : A New Generation ( 1986  )  ,  और  The Care  bears  Adventure in Wonderland  (  1987 ) .
Each Care Bear comes in  a  different color and  रै  a specialized insignia on its belly that represents its duty  और  personality .
This insignia was known as their `` tummy symbol .  ''
However , the movie Care Bears : Oopsy Does It ! renamed them `` belly badges  ''  .
Adding to the Care Bear family are the `` Care  भालू  Cousins '' , which feature a lion , rabbit , penguin ,  raccoon  , and other such animals created in the same style as the teddy bears .
In 2002 , the bears were reintroduced with new toys .
बना  by Play-Along Toys ,  the   नई  toys offered features  ऐसे  as illuminated bellies upon touch , aerobic bears  ,  and glow-in-the-dark  bears  .
As part of this comeback , the Bears have appeared in  दो  computer-animated movies : Care Bears : Journey to Joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) and The Care Bears '  बिग  Wish Movie (  2005  ) .
In 2007 , the franchise celebrated its 25th  वर्षगांठ   ;  another relaunch took  प्लेस  , as well as the release of Care Bears : Oopsy Does It ! .
In mid-2011  ,  AG announced a revival  tv  animated series titled `` Care Bears : Welcome to Care-a-Lot  ``  .
The premiere of the series  utilizes  `` 30 years of caring '' .
It premiered on The Hub on June 2 , 2012 .
As of 2013 , Care Bears merchandise is still being marketed .
During 2008 and 2009 , Canada 's Cookie Jar Group and France 's MoonScoop Group attempted to acquire the franchise from AGC  ,  with no  apparent  success .
Interstate  70  (  i-70  ) is  an  Interstate Highway in the United States that runs from Interstate 15 near Cove  फोर्ट  , Utah , to a Park  और  Ride  निकट  Baltimore , Maryland .
It was the first Interstate Highway  प्रोजेक्ट  in the United States .
I-70 approximately traces the path of U.S. Route  40   (   और  also the old National Road ) east of the Rocky Mountains .
West of the Rockies , the route of I-70 was derived from multiple sources .
I-70 is the fifth longest Interstate Highway  ,  after  i-90  , I-80 , I-40 , and I-10 .
The construction of  i-70  in Colorado and Utah is considered an engineering marvel  as  the route passes through the Eisenhower Tunnel , Glenwood Canyon ,  और  the San Rafael Swell .
The Eisenhower Tunnel is the highest point  साथ  the Interstate Highway system  साथ  an elevation of .
The sections of the interstate in Missouri and Kansas have laid claim to be the first interstate in the United States .
Though disputed , the Federal Highway Administration has claimed the section of I-70  through  Glenwood Canyon , completed in 1992 , was the  पिछला  piece of the Interstate Highway system , as originally  नियोजित  , to open to traffic  .
Photo of 1999 total eclipse
As seen from the Earth , a solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes between the Sun and Earth , and the  चंद्रमा  fully or partially blocks ( `` occults  ``   )  the Sun .
This can happen only at  नई  moon , when the Sun and the Moon are in conjunction as seen from Earth  in  an alignment referred  to  as syzygy .
In a total eclipse , the disk of the Sun is fully obscured by the Moon .
In partial and annular eclipses only part of the Sun is obscured .
If  the  Moon were in a perfectly circular orbit , a  छोटी  closer to the Earth , and in the same orbital plane , there would be total solar eclipses every  सिंगल  month .
However , the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted  )  at more than 5 degrees to  धरती  's orbit around the Sun  (  see ecliptic ) so  इसके   छाया  at new moon usually misses  धरती  .
Earth 's orbit is called the  ecliptic  plane as the Moon 's orbit must cross this  प्लेन  in order  लिये   an  eclipse ( both solar  as   खूब  as lunar )  to  occur .
In addition , the Moon 's actual  कक्षा  is elliptical , often taking it far enough away from Earth that its apparent size is not large enough to block the Sun totally .
The orbital planes  क्रॉस  each year  at  a line of nodes  resulting  in at least two , and up to five  ,  solar eclipses  occurring  each year  ;  no more than two  of  which can be total  eclipses  .
However , total solar eclipses are rare at any  particular  location because totality exists only along a narrow path on Earth 's surface  traced  by the Moon 's shadow or umbra .
An eclipse  is  a natural phenomenon .
Nevertheless , in some ancient and modern cultures , solar eclipses have been attributed to supernatural causes or regarded as  ख़राब  omens .
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to people  जो  are unaware of its astronomical explanation , as the Sun seems  to  disappear during the day and the sky darkens in a matter of minutes .
Because it is dangerous to look directly at the  सूर्य  , observers should use special eye protection or indirect viewing techniques when  देखने  a  आंशिक  eclipse , or the partial phases of a total eclipse .
It is safe to view the total phase of a total solar eclipse with the unaided eye and without protection , however .
People referred to as eclipse chasers or  umbraphiles  will travel to remote locations to observe or  गवाह  predicted central solar eclipses .
A political party ( from , Genitive partis , `` part '' , `` portion '' ) is a political organization that typically seeks to influence , or entirely  कंट्रोल   ,   सरकारी  policy , usually by  nominating  candidates  साथ  aligned political views and trying to seat them in  राजनैतिक  office .
पार्टियों   participate  in electoral campaigns and educational outreach or protest  क्रियाएँ  .
Parties often espouse an ideology or vision  ,  expressed in a  पार्टी   कार्यक्रम  , bolstered by a written platform with specific goals  ,  forming a coalition among disparate interests .
The mango is a fleshy stone fruit  belonging  to the genus Mangifera , consisting of numerous tropical fruiting trees in  the  flowering plant family Anacardiaceae  .
the  mango is  देशी  to South Asia , from where it has  महरूम  distributed worldwide to become one of the most cultivated fruits  in  the tropics  .
While other Mangifera species ( e.g . horse mango ,  M.  foetida  )  are also grown  on  a more  स्थानीयकृत  basis , Mangifera indica – the 'common mango ' or 'Indian mango ' – is  the  only mango tree commonly cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions .
It  is  the national  फल  of India , Pakistan and Philippines .
In several  संस्कृतियों  , its fruit and  पत्ते  are ritually used as floral decorations at weddings , public celebrations and religious ceremonies .
Gill Arnette  byrd  , < ref name > http : //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/B/ByrdGi00.htm ( born February 20 , 1961 in San Francisco , California )  is  a former  पेशेवर  American football player .
He was a two time  प्रो  Bowl cornerback in 1991 and 1992  लिये  the San Diego Chargers after graduating from San  जोस  State University .
Byrd was inducted into the Chargers Hall of Fame  in  1998 .
he  was an All-City running back and defensive back at Lowell High School ( San Francisco ) , helping to lead the Cardinals to the city championship in his senior season of 1978 .
World map showing the Tropic of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer , also referred  to  as  the  Northern  tropic   ,   is  the circle of latitude on the Earth that marks the most northerly position at which  the  Sun may appear directly overhead at its zenith .
This event occurs once  प्रति  year , at  the  time of the June solstice , when the Northern Hemisphere is tilted toward the Sun to  इसके  maximum extent .
It  फिलहाल  ( Year 2013 ) lies at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ north of the Equator .
Its Southern Hemisphere counterpart , marking the most southerly position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead ,  is  the Tropic of Capricorn .
These tropics are two of  the  five major degree measures  or   प्रमुख  circles of latitude that mark maps of the Earth , besides the Arctic and  अंटार्कटिक   वृत्त  and the Equator .
The positions of these circles of latitude ( other than the Equator ) are dictated by the tilt of the Earth 's axis of rotation relative to the plane of its orbit .
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs , and is  फिलहाल  the dominant consumer video format in Asia ,  उत्तर  America , Europe , and Australia .
Discs using the DVD-Video  specification   आवश्यकता  a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g. , a DVD player , or  a  computer DVD  ड्राइव  with a software DVD  खिलाड़ी  ) .
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part  2  compressed  वीडियो   और  audio of varying formats (  प्रायः   multi-channel  formats as described below ) .
Typically ,  the  data rate  लिये  DVD movies ranges from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s , and the bit rate is usually adaptive .
It was first available for retail around 1997  .
the   dvd-video  specification was created by DVD Forum and can be obtained  इससे  DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of  $  5,000 .
The specification is not publicly available  ,  because  प्रत्येक  subscriber must sign a non-disclosure agreement .
Certain information in the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential .
In computing and specifically Internet  ,  a leech is one who benefits , usually deliberately , from others ' information or effort but does not offer anything in return , or makes only token offerings in  an  attempt  to  avoid being called a leech .
In economics , this type  of   बर्ताव  is  पुकारा  `` free riding '' and is  संबद्ध   साथ   the   फ़्री  rider problem .
depending   on   कॉन्टेक्स्ट  , leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal use of computer  संसाधन  , but often instead to greedy use according to etiquette :  to   wit  , using  too  much of what  is  freely  दिए  without contributing a reasonable amount back to the community that  provides  it .
The name derives from the leech , an animal  कि  sucks blood and then tries to leave unnoticed .
Other terms are used , such as `` freeloader '' , but leech  is  the most common .
The full eagle logo ,  प्रयुक्त   in  various versions from 1970 to 1993 .
The United States Postal Service ( USPS ) , also known as the Post Office and U.S. Mail , is an independent agency of the United States federal government responsible  लिये  providing postal service in the United States .
It is  एक  of the few government agencies explicitly authorized by the United  राज्य  Constitution .
The USPS traces  इसके  roots to 1775 during the Second Continental Congress , where Benjamin  फ्रैंकलिन  was appointed the first postmaster general .
The cabinet-level Post Office Department was created in 1792 from Franklin 's operation and transformed into its current form in 1971 under  the  Postal Reorganization Act  .
The USPS employs over 574,000 workers and  operates  over 260,000 vehicles .
The USPS is the operator of the largest vehicle fleet in the world .
The USPS  is  legally obligated to serve all Americans , regardless of  भूगोल   ,  at uniform price and quality .
The USPS  रै   विशेष  access to letter boxes marked `` U.S. Mail '' and personal letterboxes in  the  United States  ,  but still competes against private  पैकेज  delivery services , such as UPS and FedEx .
The USPS has not directly received taxpayer-dollars since the early  1980s  with the minor exception of subsidies for  लागत  associated with the disabled and  विदेशी  voters .
Since the  2006  all-time peak mail volume , after which  कॉंग्रेस  passed the  डाक  Accountability and Enhancement Act `` , (  जिससे   mandated  $ 5.5 billion  प्रति  year to be  सशुल्क  into an account  to  pre-fund retiree health-care  ,   75  years into the future , a requirement unique among organizations and businesses in the U.S. ) , revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume , prompting the postal service to look to other sources of revenue while  कटिंग  costs to reduce its budget  deficit  .
Washington , D.C. has been the capital of the United States since 1800 .
आठ  other  शहरों  have served  as  the meeting place for Congress and  हैं  therefore considered to  have  once been the capital of the United States .
In addition , each of the 50 U.S. states and the five principal territories of the United States maintains its own capital .
Princess cut diamond set in a ring
The Princess cut is the second most popular cut shape for diamonds , next to a round brilliant .
The face-up shape of the princess cut is square or rectangular and the profile or side-on shape is similar to that of an  उलट  pyramid with four beveled sides  .
The princess cut is a  अपेक्षाकृत  new diamond cut , having been  निर्मित  in the  1960s  .
It has gained in popularity in recent years as a more distinctive alternative  to  the more popular round  शानदार  cut , in  जिससे  the top of diamond , called the crown , is cut with  a  round  face-up  shape and the bottom , called  the  pavilion , is  तराशा  similar to a  कोन  .
A princess cut  साथ   the   वही  width as the diameter of  a  round brilliant will weigh more as it has four  किनारे  which would otherwise have been cut off and rounded  to  form a round brilliant .
the  princess cut  is  sometimes referred to as a square modified brilliant .
However , while displaying the same high degree of brilliance , its faceting style  is  unique and completely different from that of a round  शानदार  .
the  Princess cut had its origins in the early `` French '' cut , having a step-modified `` Double-French  ''  or `` Cross '' cut crown and a series of unique , chevron-shaped facets in the pavilion which combine  to  give a distinct cross-shaped reflection when the stone is viewed directly through the table .
Effectively , the  राजकुमारी   काटें  combines the high degree of  लाइट  return  of  a round brilliant cut with a distinctive square or rectangular shape .
the  square princess cut diamond is  प्रायः  slightly cheaper than round brilliant  काटें  diamonds of the same carat weight because  it  retains about 80 % of the rough diamond , as opposed to the  गोलाकार  brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough .
The  क्षमता  to retain  अधिक  crystal weight makes this shape popular amongst diamond cutters .
Accredited Gem Appraisers (  आगा  ) and American Gem Society Laboratory (  agsl  ) and European Gem Laboratories-USA ( EGL-USA ) are currently the only labs that grade the Princess cut for  काटें  .
There is  no  universal definition of what measurements make an ideal princess cut diamond and many  डायमंड  manufacturers market ideal  ईंट  with differing facet patterns and angles as `` ideal cut '' .
in  contrast  to   the  AGSL , AGA ,  और  EGL-USA the Gemological Institute  of  America ( GIA ) has stated that there is not enough industry consensus or empirical data to specify cut grading standards for Princess cut diamonds and to do so is at the risk of consumers who may be deceived by diamonds accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent  काटें  grades .
The name ``  राजकुमारी  Cut '' was originally  प्रयुक्त   in  connection with another diamond cut , otherwise known as the `` Profile '' cut  ,  designed by Arpad Nagy , a London cutter ,  in  1961 .
The same name was  बाद   प्रयुक्त  and made popular  by  Ygal Perlman , Betzalel  ambar   ,  and Israel Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979 .
A similar cut with only 49 facets , as opposed  to  the original  58  facets of the princess  काटें  , was later branded the `` Quadrillion '' and initially distributed by Ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles .
Three years of optical research yielded a square stone with faceting  समान  to that of a round brilliant cut diamond .
A Comparison
The number of chevrons can affect the overall outlook  of  a princess cut diamond .
This can usually be determined by the wire diagram that is plotted in diamond grading reports .
By adding  अधिक  chevrons on the pavilion side of the diamond , the  व्यक्तिगत  facets of the diamond will now be broken down into smaller facets .
As a result , it can  दे  a princess cut diamond a `` crushed ice '' look .
Vice versa , when a princess  काटें  diamond has lesser chevrons , it tends to give the diamond a chunky outlook due to broader facets .
The domestic dog ( Canis  lupus   familiaris  ) is a  subspecies  of the gray  भेड़िया  ( Canis lupus ) , a member  of  the Canidae  परिवार  of the mammalian order  carnivora  .
The term `` domestic dog ''  is  generally used for both domesticated  और  feral varieties .
The dog  रै  been the first animal to be domesticated and  रै  been the most widely kept working , hunting  ,  and pet animal in  इंसान  history .
The word `` dog '' may  भी  mean the male of a canine  प्रजाति  , as opposed to the word `` bitch '' for the female of the species .
MtDNA  प्रमाण  shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and the modern wolf 's lineage around 100,000  सालो  ago but , , the oldest fossil specimens genetically linked  to  the modern dog 's lineage date to approximately 33,000-36,000 years  पहले  .
Dogs  '  value to early human hunter-gatherers led to them quickly becoming ubiquitous across world  संस्कृतियों  .
कुत्तो  perform many roles for people  ,  such as hunting , herding , pulling loads , protection , assisting police and military , companionship , and , more recently , aiding handicapped individuals .
This impact on human society has given them the nickname `` Man 's Best Friend '' in the Western  संसार  .
In  कुछ  cultures , dogs are also a source of meat .
In 2001 , there were estimated to be 400 million dogs in  the  world .
Most breeds of  कुत्तो  are at most a few hundred years  बूढ़ा  ,  having  been artificially selected for particular morphologies and behaviors by people for specific functional roles .
through   इस  selective breeding , the dog has developed into hundreds of varied breeds , and shows more behavioral and  morphological  variation than any other land mammal .
For example , height measured to the withers ranges from in the Chihuahua to about in the Irish Wolfhound ; color varies from white through grays ( usually called `` blue '' ) to black , and browns from light ( tan )  to  dark ( `` red '' or ``  चॉकलेट  '' ) in a wide  विभिन्नता  of patterns ; coats can be short or long ,  coarse-haired  to wool-like ,  सीधा  , curly  ,  or smooth .
It is common for most breeds to shed this coat .
Diagram of a transmission electron  सूक्ष्मदर्शी
A 1973 Siemens electron microscope , Musée des Arts et Métiers , Paris
An electron microscope ( EM )  is  a type of microscope that  उपयोग  an electron beam to illuminate a specimen and produce a magnified image .
An EM has greater resolving power than a light microscope and can reveal the structure  of  smaller objects because electrons have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible light photons .
They can achieve better than 50 pm resolution and magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary , non-confocal light microscopes are limited by diffraction to about  200  nm resolution and useful magnifications below 2000x .
The electron microscope uses electrostatic and electromagnetic lenses to control  the  electron beam and focus it  to  form an image .
These electron optical lenses are analogous to  the  glass lenses of a  लाइट  optical microscope .
Electron  microscopes  are used  to  investigate the ultrastructure of a wide range  of  biological and  अकार्बनिक  specimens including  microorganisms  , cells , large molecules , biopsy samples  ,   धातुओं  , and crystals .
Industrially , the electron  सूक्ष्मदर्शी  is often used for quality control and failure analysis .
आधुनिक  electron microscopes produce  इलेक्ट्रॉन  micrographs , using specialized digital cameras  or  frame grabbers to capture the image .
popeyes  Louisiana Kitchen is a chain of  fried  chicken fast food restaurants  संस्थापित   in  1972 in New Orleans , Louisiana .
Often referred to as Popeyes and sometimes as Popeyes Chicken & Biscuits or Popeyes Chicken & Seafood  ,  It was acquired by  sandy  Springs , Georgia -based AFC Enterprises , originally America 's Favorite Chicken Company , in 1993 .
According to a company press release dated June 29 , 2007 , Popeyes is the  second-largest  `` quick-service chicken restaurant group , measured  by   क्रमांक  of units '' ,  साथ  more than 1,800 restaurants in more than  40  states and the District  of  Columbia , and over 22 countries worldwide including Turkey , Northern Cyprus  ,   बहरीन  , China , Hong Kong , Iraq , Indonesia , Jordan , Kuwait ,  संयुक्त  Arab Emirates ,  जापानी  , Malaysia , Saudi Arabia , South  कोरियाई  , Singapore , Canada ,  जमैका  , Guyana , Suriname , Mexico , Trinidad  ,  Puerto Rico  ,  Honduras  ,  Vietnam , Panama , Peru , and Costa Rica .
About thirty locations are company-owned , the rest franchised .
The leg press is a weight training exercise in which  the   व्यक्तिगत  pushes a  वज़न  or resistance away from them  using   उनके  legs .
The term leg press also refers to the  apparatus  used to perform  इस  exercise .
The leg press can be used to evaluate an athlete 's overall lower  देह  strength ( from knee joint to hip ) .
Using the diagonal sled-type leg press machine .
There are two main types  of  leg press:
The diagonal or vertical 'sled ' type  लेग   दबायें  .
Weight disks ( plates ) are attached directly to the sled , which is mounted on  rails  .
the  user sits below the sled and pushes it upward with their feet .
These machines normally include adjustable safety  कोष्ठक  that prevent the user from  होने  trapped under the weight .
The 'cable  '  type leg press , or 'seated leg press ' , commonly found on multigyms .
The user sits upright and pushes forward with their  फीट  onto a  थाली  that is attached to the weight stack by  अर्थात्  of a  long  steel cable .
Wendy Williams Hunter (  born  Wendy  जोन  Williams ; July 18 , 1964 ) is an American media personality , actress and author .
वो  hosts a syndicated television talk show , The Wendy  विलियम्स  Show .
Prior to television , Williams was  a  `` shock jockette `` on several radio  shows  .
Williams has gained notoriety  लिये  her on-air  spats  with  हस्तियाँ  .
She was the subject  of   the  2006 VH1 reality  tv  series  पुकारा  The  वेन्डी  Williams Experience which broadcast events surrounding her radio show .
She has written  an  autobiography  और  several other books , and has  निर्मित  a product line called Adorn by Wendy Williams .
Patrick Henry  ``  Treason ''  वाक  before the  हाउस  of Burgesses in an 1851 painting by Peter  F.  Rothermel
`` Give me  स्वतंत्रता  , or give  me  death ! '' is a quotation attributed to Patrick Henry from  a  speech he made to the Virginia Convention .
On that  दिन   ,   at  St. John 's Church in Richmond , Virginia , and is credited with having swung the balance in convincing the Virginia House of Burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary War  .
Among  the  delegates  to   the  convention were future US  राष्ट्रपतियों   थामस  Jefferson and George Washington .
Newfoundland  और  Labrador ( , locally ) is the easternmost province of Canada .
Situated in the country 's Atlantic region , it incorporates the island of Newfoundland and mainland Labrador  to  the northwest , with a combined area of .
In 2011 , the province 's population was 514,536 .
Approximately 92 percent  of  the  प्रांत  's  जनसांख्यिकी  lives on the Island of Newfoundland ( including its associated smaller islands ) , of which more than half live on the Avalon Peninsula  .
The province is Canada 's most linguistically homogenous , with 97.6 % of residents reporting English (  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  English ) as their mother tongue in the 2006 census ; .
Historically , Newfoundland  थी  also home to unique varieties of  फ्रेंच  , and  आयरिश  , as well as the now-extinct Beothuk language  .
In Labrador  ,  local dialects of Innu-aimun and Inuktitut are also spoken .
Newfoundland and Labrador 's capital and largest city , St. John  's  , is Canada 's 20th-largest Census Metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  , and is  घर  to almost 40 percent of the province 's population .
St. John 's is the seat of government  ,  home to the  हाउस  of Assembly of Newfoundland  और   labrador  and the highest court in the jurisdiction , the  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  and Labrador Court of Appeal .
A former colony and dominion of the United Kingdom , Newfoundland and Labrador became the tenth province  to  enter the Canadian Confederation on  कूच  31 , 1949 , as Newfoundland .
On December  6  , 2001 , an  amendment  was made to  the  Constitution of Canada to change the province 's official name to Newfoundland and Labrador .
In day-to-day conversation ,  however  , Canadians  generally  still refer to  the  province itself as  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  and  to  the region on the Canadian mainland as Labrador .
Theodore ``  t.r  . ''
Roosevelt , Jr. ( ; October 27 , 1858—January 6 , 1919 ) was the 26th President of the United States ( 1901–1909 ) .
He is  विख्यात  for his exuberant personality , range of interests and achievements , and his leadership of the Progressive Movement , as well as  उसके  `` cowboy `` persona and robust masculinity .
He was a leader  of  the Republican Party  और  founder of the first incarnation  of  the  short-lived  Progressive ( `` Bull  मूस  '' ) Party of 1912 .
Before becoming  अध्यक्ष  , he held offices at the city ,  राज्य  , and federal levels .
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist , explorer , hunter , author , and soldier are as much a  भाग  of his fame as any office he held as a politician .
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn  in  as President of the United States in 1901  ,   बनाना  him the youngest president  कभी  ; he beat out the youngest elected president , John  F.  Kennedy , by only one year .
Roosevelt was also the first of only three  बैठे  presidents  to  have won the Nobel Peace Prize .
The Teddy bear is named after him , despite his contempt for being called `` Teddy  ''  .
Born into a wealthy family in  नई  York City  ,  Roosevelt  थी  a sickly child who suffered from asthma and stayed at home studying natural history  .
To overcome his physical weakness , he embraced a strenuous life .
home-schooled  , he became an eager student of nature .
He attended Harvard University ,  जहाँ  he studied biology , boxed and developed an  ब्याज  in naval  अफेयर्स  .
In 1881 , one year out of Harvard , he was elected to the New York State Assembly , where he  became  a leader of the reform  गुट  of his Republican Party ( the  ``  GOP ''  )  .
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) established his  पेशेवर  reputation as a  गंभीर  historian ; he wrote numerous books on hunting , the  बाहरी  ,  और   वर्तमान  political issues , as well  as  frontier  इतिहास  .
in  1884 , his first wife  और  his mother died on  the   वही   दिन  .
He temporarily left politics and went to the frontier ,  बनने  a rancher in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas .
Returning to New York  नगर  , he ran for mayor  in  1886 , finishing third  साथ  60,000 votes .
He later gained fame by  लेने  vigorous charge of the  नगर  police .
At the national level , he was a leader in civil service reform .
The Spanish–American War broke out in 1898 while Roosevelt was , effectively , running the Department of the Navy .
he  promptly resigned and formed the Rough Riders – a volunteer cavalry regiment that fought in Cuba .
the  war hero was elected  राज्यपाल  in 1898 and in 1900 was nominated for vice president .
He successfully energized  the  GOP base as a highly visible campaigner to reelect  अध्यक्ष  William McKinley on a platform of high tariffs , the gold standard  ,  imperialism , prosperity at home and victory abroad  .
In 1901 , President William McKinley was assassinated and Roosevelt became President .
He attempted to move the Republican Party ( GOP  )  toward Progressivism , including trust busting and increased regulation of businesses .
Roosevelt  became  the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 after having ascended to the Presidency ( from the Vice-Presidency ) upon  the  death of his predecessor , winning the largest percentage  of  the popular vote since the uncontested election of 1820 .
Roosevelt coined the phrase `` Square Deal `` to describe his  घरेलू  agenda , emphasizing that the average citizen would get a fair share under his policies  .
As an outdoorsman and naturalist , he promoted the conservation movement .
on  the world stage , Roosevelt 's policies were characterized by his slogan  ,  `` Speak softly  और  carry a big  स्टिक  `` .
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares one or  अधिक  common ancestor  (  s ) ( other than a parent , child/descendant , sibling ,  child/descendant   of  a sibling , or sibling  of  a  parent/ancestor  ) .
However in common parlance , ``  cousin  ''  सामान्यतः  specifically means `` first cousin '' .
प्रणालियों  of `` degrees '' and `` removals '' are used in the English-speaking world to describe the exact relationship between two cousins ( in the broad sense ) and the ancestor they have  in  common .
Various governmental entities  have  established  प्रणालियों  for legal use that can more precisely  बताएँ  kinships with common ancestors existing any number  of  generations in the past , though common usage often  eliminates  the degrees and removals and refers to people with common ancestry as simply ``  दूर  cousins '' or `` relatives '' .
Webster is an American situation comedy that aired on ABC from September 16 , 1983 until May 8 , 1987 , and in first-run syndication from September 21 , 1987  जबतक  March 10  ,  1989 .
The series was created by Stu Silver .
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the  शीर्षक  role as a young boy who , after losing his parents , is adopted by his NFL -pro godfather  ,   portrayed  by Alex Karras , and his new socialite wife , played by Susan Clark .
The focus was largely on how this impulsively married couple had  to  adjust  to  their new lives and sudden parenthood , but it was  the  congenial  वेबस्टर  himself who drove much  of  the plot .
The series was produced by  जॉर्जियाई  Bay Ltd. , Emmanuel Lewis Entertainment Enterprises , Inc. (  1986-1989  ) and  सर्वोपरि  Television .
Like NBC 's earlier hit Diff'rent Strokes , Webster featured a young African-American boy adopted by a white  परिवार  .
Three types of cell division
Cell  प्रभाग  is the  प्रक्रम  by which a parent cell divides into two  or  more daughter cells .
Cell division usually occurs as part  of  a larger cell cycle .
In eukaryotes , there are  दो  distinct type of cell  प्रभाग  : a vegetative division , whereby each daughter cell is genetically identical  to  the parent cell ( mitosis ) , and a  reductive  cell  प्रभाग  , whereby the number of chromosomes in the daughter cells is reduced by half , to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ) .
Both of these cell division cycles  हैं   जरूरी  in sexually reproducing organisms at some point  in  their life cycle  ,  and both are believed to be  उपस्थित  in the last eukaryotic common ancestor Prokaryotes  भी  undergo a vegetative cell division known as binary fission , where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells .
सब  cell divisions , regardless of organism , are preceded  by  a single round of DNA replication .
For simple unicellular organisms such as the amoeba  ,   एक  cell division is equivalent to reproduction – an entire new organism is created .
On a larger  स्केल  , mitotic cell division can create progeny from multicellular organisms , such as  पौधे  that grow from cuttings .
Cell division  भी  enables sexually reproducing organisms to develop from the one-celled zygote ,  जिससे  itself was  उत्पादित  by cell  प्रभाग   इससे   गैमीट  .
And after growth , cell division allows for continual construction and repair of the organism .
A human being 's body experiences about 10,000 trillion cell divisions in a lifetime .
Cell division  रै  been modeled by finite subdivision rules .
The primary concern  of  cell division  is   the  maintenance of the original  कोशिका  's genome  .
Before division can occur , the genomic information that is stored in  गुणसूत्रों  must be replicated , and the duplicated genome must be separated cleanly between  कोशिकाएं  .
A great deal of cellular infrastructure is involved in keeping genomic information consistent  between   ``   पीढियां   ''  .
Mountain ranges of Massachusetts ,  संयुक्त  States .
Howard Jones ( born John Howard Jones , 23 February 1955 , Southampton , Hampshire , England ) is a British musician , singer and songwriter .
According  to  the Guinness Book of British Hit  singles  & Albums , `` Jones is an accomplished  singer-songwriter  who  थी  a regular chart visitor in the  mid-1980s  with his  ब्रांड  of synthpop .
Jones , who was equally popular in the U.S. , appeared at Live Aid ``  .
allmusic   पत्रकार  , Stephen Thomas  erlewine  adds , `` Jones was one of the defining figures of mid-1980s synthpop .
His music  मिलाया  the technology intensive sound  of  New Wave with the cheery optimism of hippies and late 1960s pop .
Jones racked up a string of hits in the mid and late 1980s , before he retreated into being a cult figure in the 1990s '' .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Isle of Man TT ( Tourist Trophy ) Race is a motorcycle racing event held on  the  Isle of Man and  थी  for many years the  सबसे  prestigious motorcycle race in the world .
the  event was part of the FIM Motorcycle Grand Prix World Championship during the period 1949–1976 before being transferred to the United Kingdom after safety concerns and  चलाएं  by the FIM as the British Grand Prix for the 1977 season .
The Isle of Man TT Races became part of  the  TT Formula 1 Championship from  1977  to 1990 to preserve the  इवेंट  's racing status .
इससे  1989 the racing has been developed by the Isle of Man Department of Tourism as the Isle of Man TT Festival .
The race is run in a  time-trial   स्वरूप  on public roads closed for racing by the provisions of an Act of Tynwald ( the parliament of the Isle of Man ) .
The first race was held on Tuesday 28 May 1907 and was  पुकारा  the International Auto-Cycle Tourist Trophy .
The  इवेंट  was organised by the Auto-Cycle Club over 10  गोद   of  the St John 's Short Course of 15 miles 1,470 yards  लिये  road-legal  touring   मोटरसाइकिल  with exhaust silencers , saddles ,  pedals  and mud-guards .
The winner of the single-cylinder class , and overall winner of the first  इवेंट   in  1907 , was Charlie Collier riding  a  Matchless motorcycle  in  a time of 4 hours  ,  8 minutes and 8 seconds at an average race speed of 38.21 mph .
The winner of  the  twin-cylinder class was Rem Fowler riding a Peugeot engined Norton in a  समय  of 4 hours 21 minutes and 52 seconds at an average race speed of 36.21 mph .
The trophy  प्रस्तुत  to Charlie Collier as the winner of the 1907 Isle of  man  TT Race  ,  was donated by the Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars .
It featured a stylised version of Olympic God Hermes by Giovanni  da  Bologna as a silver figurine astride a winged wheel .
The trophy was similar in design to the 18 carat gold Montague Trophy  प्रस्तुत  to John Napier ( Arrol-Johnston ) as the inaugural winner of  the  Isle of Man Tourist Trophy car race  in  1905 now known as the RAC Tourist Trophy .
The Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars Trophy is now presented annually to the winner of the Isle of Man Senior TT Motor-Cycle Race .
the  2007 Isle of Man TT was the Centenary event which ran between 26 May and 8 June 2007 and featured a special Re-enactment of the 1907  आइल  of Man TT Race held on the village green next to Tynwald  हिल  in St John 's on  सोमवार  28 May 2007 .
The vintage parade of  100  classic motorcycles for  the  Centenary  re-enactment  on  the  original St John 's Short Course was flagged away by former World Motor-Cycle Champion  ज्यॉफ   ड्यूक   .
The first of the participants to be flagged away was the recently restored twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by Rem Fowler during the first Isle  of  Man TT Race in  1907  .
Also participating in the 2007 Re-enactment was TT  रेस  competitor Guy Martin riding a 1938 Triumph  बाघ  100 500 cc and other former TT competitors including Alan Cathcart , Sammy Miller  ,  Nick Jefferies and  मिक  Grant also completed  the   re-enactment  lap  .
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or  joblessness  ) occurs when people are without work and actively seeking work .
The  बेरोजगारी  rate is  a  measure  of  the prevalence of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by dividing the number of unemployed individuals by all individuals currently in the  मजदूर  force .
During periods of recession , an economy usually  अनुभवों  a relatively high unemployment rate .
According to  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Labour Organization report , more than 197 million people globally  हैं  out of work or 6 % of the world 's workforce were without a job in 2012  .
There remains considerable theoretical debate regarding the causes , consequences and solutions for unemployment .
Classical economics , New classical economics , and  the  Austrian School of economics argue that market mechanisms are reliable means of resolving unemployment .
These theories argue against interventions imposed on the labor market from the outside , such as unionization , minimum wage laws , taxes , and other regulations that they claim discourage  the  hiring of workers .
Keynesian economics emphasizes the cyclical nature of unemployment and  अनुशंसा  government interventions in the economy that it  दावा  will reduce unemployment  दौरान  recessions .
इस  theory focuses on recurrent shocks that suddenly reduce  कुल  demand for  goods   और  services  और  thus reduce  माँग  for workers .
Keynesian models recommend government  interventions  designed to increase demand for workers ; these can include financial stimuli , publicly funded  जॉब  creation , and expansionist monetary policies .
In  जोड  to  ये  comprehensive  theories  of unemployment , there are a few  categorizations  of unemployment  कि   हैं  used to more precisely model the effects  of   बेरोजगारी  within the  आर्थिक  system .
The  प्रमुख  types of unemployment include structural unemployment which focuses on structural  समस्याएं  in the economy and inefficiencies inherent in labour  बाज़ार  , including a mismatch between the supply  और  demand of laborers with necessary skill sets .
Structural arguments emphasize causes and solutions related to disruptive technologies and globalization .
Discussions of  frictional  unemployment focus on voluntary decisions to work based on each individuals ' valuation of their own work and how that compares  to  current  मजदूरी  rates plus the time and effort required to find a job .
Causes and solutions for frictional  बेरोजगारी  often address job entry threshold and wage rates .
Behavioral economists highlight individual biases  in  decision making ,  और  often involve problems and solutions concerning  स्टिकी  wages and efficiency wages .
Collectivism is any philosophic , political , religious , economic ,  or  social outlook that  emphasizes  the interdependence of every human being in a society or  सभ्यता  .
Collectivism is a basic  सांस्कृतिक  element that exists as the reverse of individualism in human nature ( in the same way high context culture exists as the  रिवर्स  of low context culture ) .
collectivist  orientations stress the  महत्व  of cohesion within social groups ( such as an `` in-group '' , in what specific context it is defined )  और  in some cases , the priority  of  group goals  over   व्यक्तिगत  goals .
Collectivists often focus on community  ,  society , nation or country .
It has been used as an element  in   अनेक  different and diverse  प्रकार  of government and political , economic and educational philosophies throughout history and most human societies in practice contain elements of  दोनो  individualism and collectivism  .
Some examples of collectivist cultures include India and Japan .
Collectivism can be divided into horizontal collectivism and vertical collectivism .
Horizontal collectivism stresses collective decision-making among equal individuals  ,  and is thus usually based on  decentralization  and egalitarianism .
Vertical  collectivism  is based on hierarchical  structures  of power and on moral and cultural conformity , and is therefore based on centralization and hierarchy .
A cooperative enterprise would be an example of horizontal collectivism , whereas  a  military hierarchy would  be  an example  of  vertical collectivism .
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ( ADEM ) is an immune mediated disease of the brain .
It usually occurs following a viral  संक्रमण  but may appear following  टीकाकरण  , bacterial or parasitic infection , or even appear spontaneously .
As it involves autoimmune demyelination  ,  it is similar  to  multiple sclerosis , and is considered part of the Multiple sclerosis borderline diseases .
The incidence rate is about 8 per 1,000,000  लोगों  per year .
Although it occurs in all ages , most reported cases are in children and adolescents , with the average age around 5 to 8 years old .
the  mortality rate may be as  ऊँची   as  5 % , full recovery is  देखी  in 50 to 75  %  of cases , while up to 70 to  90  % recover with some minor residual disability .
The average time to recover is one to six months .
ADEM produces multiple  जलन  lesions in the  दिमाग  and spinal cord , particularly in the white matter .
Usually these are found in  the  subcortical  और  central white matter and cortical gray-white junction  of  both cerebral  बांटती   ,  cerebellum , brainstem , and spinal cord , but periventricular white matter and gray matter of the cortex  ,  thalami and basal ganglia may also be involved .
When the patient suffers more than  एक  demyelinating  एपीसोड  , it is called recurrent disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( MDEM ) .
The stomach is a muscular  ,  hollow ,  dilated  part  of  the digestion system which functions as  an  important organ of the digestive tract in some animals , including vertebrates , echinoderms , insects ( mid-gut ) , and molluscs .
It is involved in the second phase of digestion , following mastication ( chewing )  .
The stomach is located between the esophagus and the small intestine .
It secretes protein-digesting enzymes called protease and strong acids to aid in  खाना  digestion , (  भेजा  to it via esophageal peristalsis  )  through  चिकना  muscular contortions (  पुकारा  segmentation )  पहले  sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to  the  small intestines .
The  शब्द   पेट  is derived from  the  Latin stomachus which is derived from the Greek word stomachos ( στόμαχος ) , ultimately from stoma ( )  ,  `` mouth ''  .
the  words gastro- and  gastric  ( meaning  सम्बन्धित  to the stomach ) are both derived from the Greek word gaster  (  ) .
1940 Pontiac Special  श्रेणी  25 Woodie
A woodie is a car body style , especially a station wagon , where the  पश्च  bodywork is constructed of wood framework  साथ  infill panels  of  wood or painted metal .
After the demise  of  actual wood construction , manufacturers used simulated woodgrain  चादर   vinyl—sometimes   augmented  with three-dimensional , simulated framework—to recall wood construction .
In 2008 , wood  निर्माण  was evoked abstractly on the Ford Flex with a  श्रेणी  of side and rear horizontal grooves .
A pearl is a hard  ऑब्जेक्ट  produced within the soft tissue  (  specifically the mantle ) of a living shelled mollusc .
Just like the shell of a  clam  , a pearl is made up of  कैल्सियम  carbonate in minute crystalline form , which has been deposited in concentric layers .
The ideal pearl is perfectly round and  चिकना  , but many other  आकार  of  मोती   (  baroque  मोती  ) occur .
The finest quality natural pearls have been highly valued as gemstones and objects  of  beauty for many centuries ,  और  because of this ,  the  word pearl has become a metaphor for something very rare , fine , admirable , and valuable .
The most valuable pearls occur spontaneously in the wild , but they are  अत्यधिक  rare .
These  जंगली  pearls are referred to as natural pearls .
Cultured or farmed pearls  इससे  pearl oysters and freshwater mussels  मेक  up the majority  of  those that are currently sold .
नकल  pearls are also widely sold in inexpensive jewelry , but the quality of their iridescence is usually very poor , and often , artificial pearls are easily distinguished from genuine pearls .
मोती  have been harvested and cultivated primarily  लिये   उपयोग  in jewelry , but in the past they were also stitched onto lavish  कपडे  .
Pearls have also been crushed and used in cosmetics , medicines , and in paint formulations .
Whether wild or cultured ,  gem  quality  मोती  are almost always  nacreous  and , as is the interior of the shell that produces them .
However , almost all species of shelled molluscs are capable of producing pearls ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by some sources ) of lesser shine or less spherical shape .
Although these  may  also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological labs and also under U.S. Federal Trade Commission  नियम  , and are  formed  in the same way , most of them have no value , except as  curiosities  .
Bing ( known previously as Live Search , Windows Live Search  ,  and MSN  ढूंढें  ) is a web search engine ( advertised as a `` decision engine  ``  )  इससे  Microsoft .
Bing was unveiled by Microsoft CEO  स्टीव  Ballmer on May 28 , 2009 at the All Things  डिजिटल  conference in San Diego for release on June 1 .
Notable changes include the listing of  ढूंढें  suggestions while queries are entered and  a  list of  सम्बन्धित  searches  (  called `` Explore  फलक  '' ) based on semantic technology from Powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008 .
On July 29  ,  2009 , Microsoft and Yahoo ! announced a deal in which Bing would power Yahoo ! Search .
All Yahoo ! Search global customers and partners are expected to have made the transition by early 2012 .
In October 2011 , Bing announced  it  was working on new back-end search infrastructure  ,  with  the   लक्ष्य  of delivering faster and slightly more relevant search results for users .
Known as `` Tiger '' , the new index-serving technology has been incorporated into Bing globally , since August 2011 .
In May 2012 , Bing announced  another  redesign  of  its search engine that includes `` Sidebar '' , a social feature that searches  उपयोक्ता  ' social networks for information relevant to the search query .
A diagram showing an I Formation on offense and a 4-3 Formation on defense
In American football , each team has eleven  खिलाड़ी  on the  फ़ील्ड  at one time .
The specific role that a player takes on the field is called their position .
Under the modern rules of American football , teams are  अनुमत  unlimited subsititutions , that  is  teams may change any number of players after any play .
इस  has resulted in the development of three `` platoons  ''  of players , the offense ( the team with the ball , who is trying to score  )  , the defense  (  the team  trying   to   prevent  the other team  इससे  scoring , and to take  the  ball from them ) , and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations )  .
भीतर  those platoons , various  विशिष्ट  positions exist depending on what the  खिलाड़ी   's  main job  is  .
the  Irish people ( or na hÉireannaigh ;  ulster-scots  : Airish fowk ) are an ethnic group who originate in Ireland  ,  an island  in  northwestern Europe .
Ireland has been populated  लिये  around 9,000 years  (  according  to  archaeological studies , see  प्रागैतिहासिक  Ireland ) .
The Irish people 's earliest ancestors are recorded in legends – they  हैं  claimed to be descended from groups such as the Nemedians , Fomorians , Fir  bolg  ,  tuatha  Dé Danann  और  the Milesians .
Lebor  gabála  Érenn , a book of Irish mythology tells that Milesians were Scythian descendants .
The main groups that interacted  साथ  the Irish in the Middle Ages include the Picts , Scots , and the Vikings .
Due to this contact , Icelanders are noted for having some Irish descent .
The  anglo-norman  invasion of the High Middle Ages , the  अंग्रेज़ी  plantations and the subsequent English rule of the country introduced the Normans and Flemish into Ireland .
Welsh , Picts ,  bretons  , and small parties of  gauls  and even Anglo-Saxons  हैं   ज्ञात  in Ireland from much earlier times .
There have  महरूम  many notable Irish  लोगों  throughout history .
The 6th century  आयरिश  monk  और   मिशनरी  Columbanus is regarded as one of  the  `` fathers of Europe '' , followed by Kilian of Würzburg and Vergilius of Salzburg  .
The scientist Robert Boyle is considered  the  `` father of chemistry  ``  .
Famous Irish explorers include Brendan  the  Navigator , Robert McClure , Ernest Shackleton and Tom Crean .
By  कुछ  accounts ,  the  first European child born in North  अमेरिका  had Irish descent on both sides ; and an Irishman was the  पहला  European  to  set  पैर  on American soil in Columbus  '   expedition  of 1492 .
There are descendants of Irish people living in many western countries  ,  particularly in English-speaking countries .
Historically , emigration has  महरूम  caused  by  politics , famine  और  economic  मुद्दे  .
An estimated 50 to  80  million people are descendants of Irish people  ,  primarily  in  the United Kingdom , the United States , Australia , Canada and Iceland ; there are also smaller  संख्याएँ  in Argentina  ,  Chile , Mexico , Jamaica , Barbados , South Africa , New Zealand , France , Germany and  ब्राज़ील  .
The largest number  of  descendants of Irish people live in the United States .
The  क्रमांक  of  लोगों  living  in   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  who are of Irish descent is higher , as a  प्रतिशत  of total population , than that of any other country .
Approximately forty percent  of  the settlement  जनसांख्यिकी  of Iceland came from Ireland or Scotland .
The very  पहला  inhabitants of Iceland were Irish .
the  Hubble Space Telescope ( HST ) is a space telescope that was carried  into   कक्षा   by  a Space Shuttle in 1990 and remains in operation  .
A aperture telescope in  कम  Earth orbit , Hubble  's  four main instruments  observe  in the near  पराबैंगनी  , visible , and near infrared .
the   दूरदर्शी  is named after  the  astronomer Edwin Hubble .
Hubble 's orbit outside the distortion of Earth 's atmosphere allows  it  to take extremely sharp images with almost no background  लाइट  .
Hubble  's  Deep Field have been some of the most detailed visible-light  बिंब   कभी  , allowing a deep view into space and time .
Many Hubble observations have led  to  breakthroughs in astrophysics , such as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the universe .
Although not the first space telescope ,  हबल  is one of the largest and most versatile ,  और  is well known as both  a  vital research tool and a public relations boon for astronomy .
The  hst  was built  by  the United States space agency  नासा  , with contributions from the European Space Agency , and is operated by the Space Telescope Science Institute .
The HST is one of NASA 's Great Observatories , along with the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory , the Chandra X-ray Observatory , and the Spitzer Space Telescope .
Space  telescopes   यहूद  proposed as early as 1923 .
Hubble was funded  in  the 1970s , with a proposed launch in 1983 , but  the  project was beset by technical delays , budget problems , and  the  Challenger  विपत्ति  .
When finally launched in 1990 , scientists found  कि  the  प्रमुख  mirror had been ground incorrectly ,  compromising  the telescope 's capabilities .
The telescope was restored to  इसके  intended quality by a servicing mission in 1993 .
Hubble is the only telescope designed to be serviced in space by astronauts .
Between 1993 and 2002 , four missions  repaired  , upgraded , and  replaced  systems on the telescope ; a  पांचवां  mission was canceled on safety grounds following the Columbia disaster .
However ,  बाद  spirited public  चर्चा  , NASA administrator Mike Griffin  स्वीकृत  one final servicing mission , completed  in  2009 by Space Shuttle Atlantis .
The  दूरदर्शी  is now expected to  फलन  until at  तनिक  2013 .
Its scientific successor , the  जेम्स   webb  Space Telescope ( JWST ) ,  is  to be launched in  2018   or  possibly later .
Anti-inflammatory refers to the property of a substance or treatment that  reduces  inflammation .
Anti-inflammatory drugs make up about half of analgesics , remedying pain by reducing inflammation as opposed to opioids , which affect the central nervous system .
The Tonight Show is a US late-night talk show that has aired on NBC since 1954 .
It is the longest  फिलहाल  running regularly scheduled entertainment program  in  the US and the third longest-running show on NBC after Meet the Press and Today .
The Tonight Show was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ) , Jack Paar ( 1957–1962 ) , Johnny Carson ( 1962–1992  )  , Jay Leno ( 1992–2009 , 2010–present ) ,  और  Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ) .
Several guest hosts also appeared , particularly during the Paar and Carson eras .
The longest-serving host to date  थी  Johnny Carson , who  hosted  The Tonight  दिखाएँ  Starring Johnny Carson for 30 seasons from the fall of 1962 through the spring  of   1992  .
The current host of the show is Jay Leno , who had previously hosted the show from 1992 to 2009 and began his second tenure on March 1 , 2010 .
On April  3  , 2013 , NBC announced Jimmy Fallon would become the new host of  the  Tonight Show .
The Tonight  दिखाएँ  with Jimmy Fallon  होगा  premiere February 24 , 2014 , the day after the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics .
SS Andrea Doria .
Pronounced was an ocean liner  लिये  the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione Italia ) home  ported  in Genoa , Italy , most famous for its sinking in 1956 , when 52 people died ( 51 from immediate impact ) .
Named  बाद  the 16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea Doria , the ship had  a  gross register tonnage of 29,100  और  a capacity of about 1,200 passengers and 500 crew .
For a country attempting  to   rebuild  its economy and reputation after World War II ,  एंड्रिया  Doria was an icon of Italian  नेशनल   अभिमान  .
Of all Italy 's ships at the time , Andrea Doria was the largest , fastest and supposedly safest  .
Launched on 16  जून  1951 , the ship undertook its  maiden  voyage on 14 January 1953 .
On 25 July 1956 , while the Andrea  डोरिया  was approaching the coast  of  Nantucket , Massachusetts , bound for New  यॉर्क  City ,  the  eastbound of the Swedish American  लकीर  collided with it in what became one  of  history 's most infamous maritime disasters .
Struck  in  the side , the top-heavy Andrea  डोरिया  immediately started to list severely  to  starboard , which left  हाफ   of  its lifeboats unusable .
The consequent shortage  of   lifeboats  might have resulted in significant loss of life , but the efficiency of the ship 's technical design  अनुमत  it to stay afloat for over 11 hours after the ramming .
the  good behavior of the crew , improvements in communications and the rapid response of other ships averted  a  disaster similar in scale to that of the in  1912  .
1,660 passengers and crew were rescued and survived , while 46 people died  as  a consequence of the collision .
the  evacuated luxury liner  capsized  and sank the following morning .
This accident remains the worst maritime disaster to occur in United States waters since the sinking of the in 1915 .
The incident  और  its aftermath were heavily covered  by   the  news media .
While the rescue efforts were both successful and  commendable  , the cause of  the  collision with  the  Stockholm  और  the loss of  एंड्रिया  Doria generated much interest in the media and many  lawsuits  .
Largely because of an out-of-court settlement agreement between  the  two shipping companies during  hearings  immediately after the disaster , no determination of the  कारण  (  s   )  was ever formally published .
Although greater blame appeared initially to fall on the Italian liner ,  अधिक  recent discoveries have indicated that a misreading of  रडार  on the Swedish ship may have initiated the collision course , leading to errors on both ships .
Andrea Doria was the last major transatlantic passenger vessel to sink before aircraft  became  the preferred method of travel .
Dialysis tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of semi- or partially permeable membrane tubing made  इससे  regenerated cellulose or cellophane .
It can be used for diffusion with solutes or osmosis if used with water only .
Osmosis is when water passes through a semi-permeable layer to reach equilibrium .
Diffusion , on the other hand , allows the movement of molecules from high concentration to  कम  concentration .
It will only allow  अणुओं  to pass through a semi-permeable membrane or layer if the  अणु  is small enough to fit through the membrane or a membrane 's pore .
इस  usually results  साथ  the effects of diffusion through a membrane  तभी  really affects small  अणुओं  , and almost never larger molecules .
Dialysis tubing is  प्रयुक्त  in clinical circumstances to ensure  a  filtered flow of molecules , preventing  the  flow of larger solute molecules .
Small molecules can be `` washed '' out of a solution which is pumped through the tubing  into  a  solvent  , usually  जल  , which  surrounds  it and in which they can be flushed away .
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes , a solution containing several types of molecules , usually  ग्लूकोज  and starch , is placed into a semi-permeable dialysis bag , such as a cellulose membrane with pores , and the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band .
The sealed  डायलिसिस  bag is placed in a container of a  अलग  solution , or water .
Molecules small enough to pass through the tubing ( water , salts ,  monosaccharides  , and other small molecules ) tend to move into or out of the dialysis bag in the  दिशा  of decreasing concentration , therefore displaying diffusion .
Larger molecules ( such as proteins , or polysaccharides ) that have dimensions significantly greater than the pore diameter are retained inside the dialysis bag .
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution that has a lesser solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to  )  will cross a semi-permeable membrane ,  जैसे  dialysis tubing , into a hypertonic solution ( a solution that has a higher solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) in an attempt to  पहुँचें  equilibrium , where  the  solute concentration of each solution is in equilibrium .
Mercury laboratory thermometer
A thermometer ( from the Greek , thermos  ,  meaning `` hot '' and μἐτρον ,  metron  , `` measure '' ) is a device that  उपायों  temperature or temperature  अनुपात  using a variety of different principles .
A thermometer has two important elements :  the  temperature sensor  (  e.g . the  बल्ब  on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) in which some physical change occurs with temperature , plus some means  of  converting this physical change into a numerical value ( e.g . the visible scale that  is  marked  on  a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) .
There  हैं  many types and  अनेक  uses for thermometers , as detailed below  in   भाग  of this article .
Snow  श्वेत  and the Seven Dwarfs  is  a 1937 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney and released by RKO Radio Pictures .
Based on the German fairy  टेल  by the  भाइयो  Grimm  ,  it is the first full-length cel animated feature film and the  earliest  in the Walt Disney Animated Classics  श्रेणी  .
The story was adapted by storyboard artists Dorothy  ऐन   रिक्त  , Richard Creedon , Merrill De Maris , Otto Englander , Earl Hurd , Dick Rickard , Ted Sears and  webb   स्मिथ  .
David Hand was the supervising director , while William Cottrell ,  विल्फ्रेड  Jackson , Larry Morey , Perce Pearce , and Ben Sharpsteen directed the film 's individual sequences .
Snow White premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21 , 1937 , followed by a nationwide release  on  February 4 , 1938 ,  और  with international earnings of $ 8 million during its initial release briefly  assumed  the record of highest grossing sound film at the time .
the  popularity of  the  film has led to it being re-released theatrically  अनेक   टाइम्स  , until its home video release in the  1990s  .
Adjusted for  महंगाई  , it is one of the top ten  performers  at the North American box office .
At the 11th Academy Awards  ,  Walt Disney  थी  awarded an honorary Oscar , and the film was nominated for Best Musical Score  .
It was added to  the  United States National Film Registry in 1989  और  is ranked in the American Film Institute 's  सूची  of the 100 greatest American  films   ,  who also named the film as the greatest American animated film of all time in 2008 .
Disney 's take on  the  fairy tale has  था  a big cultural impact , resulting in a popular theme park attraction , a video game , and a Broadway musical .
Childbirth , labour , delivery , birth , partus  ,  or parturition is the culmination of  a  pregnancy period with the expulsion of one or more newborn infants from a woman 's uterus .
The  प्रक्रम  of normal childbirth is categorized in three stages of labour : the shortening and dilation of the  ग्रीवा   ,  descent and birth of the infant , and birth of the placenta .
In many cases and with increasing frequency  ,  childbirth is achieved through induction  of  labor  or  caesarean section , which is the removal of the neonate through a surgical incision in  the   उदर  , rather than through vaginal birth .
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in the U.S. from 1996 to 2006 ,  और  comprise nearly  32  %  of  births in the U.S. and Canada .
With respect to induced labor , more than 22 % of women undergo induction of  श्रमिक   in  the United States .
Medical professional policy makers find that induced births and elective cesarean can be  नुकसानदेह  to  the  fetus and neonate as well  as  harmful or without benefit to the mother  ,  and have  स्थापित  strict guidelines for non-medically indicated induced births and elective cesarean before 39 weeks .
Viva  la   bam  was an MTV & Viva show which followed Bam Margera and his crew as they undertook challenges , performed stunts and traveled the world .
The show ran for 5 seasons between 2003 and 2005 .
Flushed Away is a 2006  british/american  computer animated action / adventure comedy film directed by David Bowers and Sam Fell .
It was made in the partnership between Aardman Animations and DreamWorks Animation , and is Aardman 's first completely computer-animated feature as opposed to the usual stop-motion .
The film stars the voice talents of Hugh Jackman , Kate Winslet , Andy Serkis , Bill Nighy , Ian McKellen , Shane Richie and Jean Reno  .
The  स्टोरी  was  by  Sam Fell , Peter Lord ,  लंड  Clement , and Ian La Frenais  ,   और  the screenplay was written by Dick Clement , Ian La Frenais , Christopher Lloyd ,  जो  Keenan , and William Davies .
The film was released  in  US on  3  November 2006  ,  and in UK on December 1 2006 , and was distributed by Paramount  तस्वीरें  , except for Switzerland , Spain , and the Netherlands , which were handled by Universal Pictures  .
The Atlanta Braves are a professional baseball team based  in   अटलांटा  .
The Braves are a member of the  पूर्वी  Division of Major League Baseball  's  National League .
The  braves  have played in Turner Field since  1997  .
The `` Braves '' name , which was first used in 1912 ,  originates  from a term for a Native American  योद्धा  .
They are nicknamed ``  the  Bravos '' , and often  referred  to as  ``  America  's  Team ``  in  reference to the  टोली  's  खेल  being broadcast on the nationally available TBS from the 1970s until 2007 , gaining a wide fanbase .
From 1991 to  2005  the Braves were one of the most successful franchises in baseball , winning  प्रभाग  titles an unprecedented 14 consecutive times in that period ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season  in  which there were no official division champions ) .
the  Braves won the NL West 1991–93 and the NL East 1995–2005 , and returned to  the  playoffs as the National League Wild Card in 2010 .
The Braves advanced to the  संसार  Series five times in the 1990s , winning the title in 1995 .
Since their debut in the National League  in  1876 , the franchise has won 16 divisional titles  ,  17 National  लीग   pennants  , as well as  तीन  World Series championships—in 1914 as  the  Boston Braves , in 1957  as   the  Milwaukee Braves , and in 1995 in Atlanta .
The Braves are the only MLB franchise to have won the World Series in  तीन  different home cities .
The club is one of the National League 's two remaining charter franchises ( the other  होने  the Chicago Cubs ) and was founded in Boston , Massachusetts , in 1871 as the Boston Red Stockings ( not to be confused with the American League  's  Boston Red  sox  ) .
They are  माना  `` the  oldest  continuously playing team in  प्रमुख  North American sports . ''
There is an argument as to  जो  is actually older because although the Cubs are a full season `` older '' ( formed  as  the Chicago  श्वेत  Stockings in 1870 ) Chicago lost two seasons to the Great Chicago Fire , thus the Braves have  निभाई  more  लगातार  seasons .
After  विभिन्न  name changes  (  such as the Boston  beaneaters  ) , the team operated as the  बोस्टन  Braves for most of the first half of the 20th century .
In 1953 , the team moved to Milwaukee ,  विस्कॉन्सिन  and became the Milwaukee Braves ,  followed  by the move to Atlanta in 1966 .
The team 's tenure in  अटलांटा  is famous for Hank  आरोन  breaking Babe Ruth 's career home  चलाएं  record in 1974 , though  the  majority of Aaron 's home runs were  hit  while the team was  in  Milwaukee .
His record stood until 2007  ,   जब  San Francisco left fielder Barry Bonds broke the record  .
The leaves of  a  Beech tree
3D rendering  of  a μCT scan of  a  leaf piece , resolution circa 40  μm/  voxel  .
A leaf is an organ of a vascular plant , as  पारिभाषित  in botanical terms , and in  particular  in plant morphology .
Foliage is  a  mass noun that refers to leaves as a feature of plants .
Typically a leaf is a thin ,  flattened  organ borne above ground and specialized  लिये  photosynthesis , but many  प्रकार  of leaves are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those terms : some are not flat ( for example many succulent leaves and conifers ) , some  हैं  not above ground ( such as bulb scales ) , and some are without major photosynthetic function ( consider for example cataphylls , spines  ,  and cotyledons ) .
conversely  , many structures of non-vascular plants , or  भी  of some lichens  ,  which are not plants at all ( in the sense of being members of the kingdom Plantae ) , do look and function much like leaves  .
Furthermore , several structures  मिला  in vascular plants look like leaves but  हैं  not actually leaves ; they differ from leaves in their structures and origins .
Examples include  phyllodes  , cladodes , and phylloclades .
Title card for the 1937 Our Gang comedy Rushin ' Ballet .
Our Gang ( also  ज्ञात  as The Little Rascals or Hal Roach 's Rascals ) are  a  series of American comedy short  films  about a group of poor neighborhood children and their adventures .
Created by comedy producer Hal Roach , the series is noted for showing children behaving in a relatively natural way , as  रोच  and original director Robert F. McGowan worked to film the unaffected , raw nuances apparent in regular children rather than have them imitate adult acting styles .
in  addition , Our Gang notably put boys , girls , whites and blacks  साथ  in a group as  बराबरी   ,  something  कि  ``  broke  new ground , '' according to film historian Leonard Maltin .
Such a thing had never been done before in cinema but has since been repeated after the success  of  Our Gang .
The first production at the Roach studio in 1922 was  a  series of silent short subjects .
जब   रोच  changed distributors from Pathé to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ( MGM ) in 1927 , and converted the series to sound in 1929 , the series took off even  further  .
Production continued  at  the Roach studio until 1938 , when the series was  बेची  to MGM ,  जो  then continued producing the comedies until 1944  .
The Our Gang series includes a total of 220 shorts and one feature film , General  spanky  , featuring over forty-one child actors .
As MGM retained the rights to  the  Our Gang trademark following their purchase of the production rights , the  80   roach-produced  `` talkies  ''  were syndicated for television under the title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955 .
Both Roach  's  The Little Rascals package ( now owned by CBS Television Distribution ) and MGM 's Our Gang package (  अभी  owned by Warner  भाईs.  Entertainment ) have since remained in syndication  ,  with periodic new productions based on the shorts surfacing  over  the years , including a  1994  Little Rascals feature film released  by  Universal Pictures .
zacharias  Janssen ( also Zacharias Jansen or Sacharias Jansen ) ( b.1580-88 , d.pre-1632 to 1638 )  थी  a Dutch spectacle-maker from  middelburg   संबद्ध  with the invention of the first optical telescope .
Janssen is sometimes also credited for inventing the first truly compound microscope  .
However , the origin  of  the microscope , just like the origin of the telescope , is a matter of debate .
Lake Tahoe ( ; Washo : dáʔaw ) is  a  large freshwater lake in the Sierra Nevada of the United States .
at  a surface elevation of , it is located along the border between California  और  Nevada , west of  कार्सन  City .
Lake  tahoe  is the largest alpine lake in North America .
Its  गहराई  is , making  it  the United State 's second-deepest ( the deepest is  crater  Lake in Oregon , being deeper , at )  .
Additionally , Lake  tahoe  is listed  as  the 26th largest lake by volume in the world at  .
The  झील  was formed about 2 million years ago and is a part of the Lake Tahoe Basin  साथ  the modern lake being shaped during  the  ice ages .
It is known  लिये  the clarity  of  its water and the panorama of surrounding mountains on all sides .
The area surrounding  the   झील  is also referred to as Lake Tahoe  ,  or simply Tahoe .
Lake Tahoe is a  प्रमुख  tourist attraction  in  both Nevada and  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
It is home to a number  of  ski resorts  ,  summer outdoor  मनोरंजन  , and tourist attractions .
हिम   और  skiing are a significant part of the area 's economy and reputation .
Mountain and lake scenery  हैं   आकर्षण  throughout the  साल  .
The Nevada side also includes large casinos .
Highways provide year-round access from Reno , Carson City ,  और  Sacramento .
Page 1 of the Twenty-seventh Amendment 's certification in the National Archives
Page 2  of  the amendment 's certification
Page 3  of  the amendment 's  प्रमाणन
The Twenty-seventh  amendment  ( Amendment XXVII ) prohibits any law  कि  increases or decreases the salary of members of the Congress from  लेने  effect until the start of the next set of terms of office for Representatives .
It is the most recent amendment to the United States Constitution .
It was submitted  to  the states for ratification in 1789 and was adopted  in  1992 .
“First  वे  came ... ” is  a  famous  बयान  and provocative poem attributed to pastor Martin Niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) about the sloth of German intellectuals following the Nazis ' rise to power  और  the subsequent purging of their chosen targets , group after group .
There is some disagreement over the exact  wording  of the quotation and when it was created ; the content of the quotation may have been presented differently by Niemöller on  अलग  occasions .
This list of islands  by  area includes all islands in the world  वृहद  than 2,500 km2 ( ) and several other islands over 500 km2 (  )  , sorted in descending order by area .
For comparison , continents are also  दिखाया  .
Four Thirds logo
The Four Thirds system is a standard created by  ओलम्पस  and Kodak for  डिजिटल  single-lens reflex camera ( DSLR  )  design and development.  <  ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 '  >
The  प्रणाली  provides a standard that  ,  with digital cameras and lenses available from multiple manufacturers , allows for the interchange of lenses and bodies from different manufacturers .
seems  to cover the standard .
Proponents describe it as an open standard  ,  but companies may only use it under a non-disclosure agreement .
Unlike older SLR systems , Four Thirds  रै  been  designed  from the ground up to be entirely digital .
Many lenses are extensively computerized , to the point that Olympus offers firmware updates for many of them .
Lens  डिज़ाइन  has been tailored to the requirements of digital sensors , most notably through  telecentric   डिजाइन  .
The size of the sensor is significantly smaller than for most  dslrs  and this implies that lenses , especially telephoto lenses , can be smaller .
लिये  example , a Four Thirds lens with a 300 mm focal length would cover about the same angle of view as a 600 mm focal length lens for the 35 mm film standard ,  और   is  correspondingly more compact .
Thus , the Four Thirds  प्रणाली  has crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of about 2 ,  और  while this enables longer focal length for greater magnification , it  करता  n't aid the manufacture of wide angle lenses .
The image sensor format  ,  generally intermediate between those of larger SLRs and smaller compact cameras , generally gives levels  of  cost , performance and convenience intermediate between those two classes .
HVAC systems  उपयोग  ventilation air  नलिकाएं  installed  throughout  a building to supply conditioned air to a room  through  outlet vents  ,  called  diffusers  ; and ducts to remove air through return-air grilles .
HVAC ( heating , ventilation , and air conditioning ) is the technology of indoor and automotive environmental comfort  .
HVAC system  डिज़ाइन  is a subdiscipline of mechanical engineering , based on the principles of thermodynamics ,  द्रव  mechanics ,  और  heat  ट्रांसफ़र  .
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & R or HVACR , or  ventilating  is dropped as in HACR ( such as the designation  of   hacr-rated  circuit  ब्रेकर्स  ) .
HVAC is important in the design of medium  to  large industrial and office buildings such as skyscrapers and in marine environments such as aquariums ,  जहाँ   सुरक्षित  and healthy building conditions are  regulated  with respect to temperature and humidity , using fresh air  इससे  outdoors .
Ventilation  on  the downdraught system , by impulsion , or the 'plenum ' principle , applied to schoolrooms  (   1899  )
Heating , ventilating , and air conditioning is based on inventions and  discoveries  made by Nikolay Lvov  ,  Michael Faraday ,  विलिस  Carrier , Reuben Trane , James Joule  ,   विलियम  Rankine , Sadi Carnot , and many others .
The invention of  the  components of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand with the industrial revolution , and new methods of modernization , higher efficiency , and  प्रणाली  control are constantly introduced  by  companies and inventors worldwide .
The three central functions of heating , ventilating ,  और  air-conditioning  हैं   interrelated  ,  विशेषकर  with the need to provide thermal comfort and acceptable indoor air quality within reasonable installation , operation , and maintenance costs .
HVAC systems can provide ventilation , reduce air infiltration  ,  and  maintain   दबाव  relationships between spaces .
The means of air delivery and removal from spaces is known as  रूम  air distribution .
The starting point in carrying out an estimate  दोनो  for  कूलिंग  and heating depends on  the   exterior  climate and interior specified conditions  .
However before taking up the heat load calculation , it is necessary to find fresh air requirements for each area in detail , as pressurization is an  महत्वपूर्ण  consideration .
In  आधुनिक  buildings the design  ,  installation , and control systems of these functions are integrated  into  one or more  hvac  systems  .
For very small  इमारतें  , contractors normally capacity engineer and select HVAC systems  और  equipment .
For larger buildings , building services designers and engineers , such as mechanical , architectural , or building services engineers analyze , design , and  बताएँ  the HVAC systems ,  और   specialty  mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them .
Building permits  और  code-compliance inspections  of  the installations are normally required for all sizes of buildings .
The HVAC industry  is  a worldwide enterprise , with roles including operation and maintenance , system design and construction , equipment manufacturing and sales , and in education and  शोध  .
The  hvac   उद्योग   थी  historically regulated by the manufacturers of HVAC  उपकरण  ,  लकिन  regulating and standards organizations such as HARDI , ASHRAE , SMACNA , ACCA , Uniform Mechanical Code , International Mechanical Code , and  amca  have been established  to  support the industry and encourage high standards and achievement .
Royal  नेवी  Commander James Bond ,  cmg  ,  rnvr  , is a fictional character created by British journalist and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953 .
he  is the protagonist of the James Bond series of novels  ,  films , comics and video games .
Fleming wrote twelve Bond novels and  दो   छोटी  story collections before his death , although the last two books— The Man with the Golden Gun and  octopussy  and The Living Daylights —were published posthumously .
The Bond character is a Secret Service agent , code number 007 , residing in London but active  internationally  .
Bond was a  कम्पोजिट  character who was based on a number of commandos  जिसको  Fleming  knew  during his service  in  the Naval Intelligence Division during World War II , to whom Fleming added his own style and a number of his  अपना  tastes ; Bond 's name was appropriated from American  ornithologist  James Bond .
Bond has a number of character traits which run  throughout  the books , including  an  enjoyment of cars  ,  a love of food and drink , and an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day .
Since  फ्लेमिंग  's death in 1964  ,  there  have  been other authorised writers of Bond material , including  जॉन  Gardner , who wrote fourteen  novels  and two novelizations and Raymond Benson , who wrote six novels , three  novelizations   और  three short stories  .
There have also been three authors who wrote one book  प्रत्येक   ,  Kingsley Amis ( writing as Robert Markham ) , Sebastian Faulks and Jeffery Deaver .
Additionally a series  of  novels based on Bond 's youth— Young Bond —was written by Charlie  higson  .
As  spin-offs  from  the  literary works , there was a television adaptation of the first novel , Casino Royale , in which Bond was played as an  अमरीकी  agent  .
A comic strip series also ran in the Daily Express  समाचारपत्र  .
There have also been twenty-five Bond films ;  सात  actors have played Bond in these films .
`` Nature Boy ''  is  a song by Eden Ahbez  ,  published in 1947 .
the   सोंग  tells  a  fantasy of a `` strange enchanted boy ... who  wandered  very far '' only  to  learn that `` the greatest thing ... was just  to  love and be loved in return '' .
Nat King Cole 's 1948 recording of the song  थी  a major hit  और  `` Nature Boy '' has since become a pop and jazz standard , with dozens of major  कलाकारों  interpreting the song .
Louisiana (  or  ; ,  ;  Louisiana Creole : Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a state located in the southern  प्रदेश  of the United States of America .
louisiana  is the 31st most extensive and the 25th most populous of the 50 United States .
Its capital is Baton Rouge and  largest  city is New Orleans .
Louisiana is the only state in the U.S. with political subdivisions termed parishes  ,  which are local government 's equivalent to counties .
The largest  मोहल्ला   by  population  is  East Baton Rouge Parish , and the largest by land area is Cameron Parish .
Much of  the  state  's  lands were  formed  from sediment washed down the Mississippi River , leaving enormous deltas and vast areas of coastal marsh and swamp .
These  contain  a rich southern biota ; typical  उदाहरण  include birds such as ibis and egrets .
There are also many species of tree frogs , and fish such as sturgeon and paddlefish .
In more elevated  क्षेत्रों  , fire  is  a natural process in the landscape , and has produced extensive areas of longleaf pine forest  और  wet savannas  .
These support an exceptionally large  क्रमांक  of plant species , including many species of  orchids  and carnivorous plants .
कुछ  Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural , multilingual heritage , being so strongly influenced by an admixture of 18th-century French  ,  Spanish , Native American ( Indian ) and African cultures that they are considered to be somewhat  असाधारण  in the U.S .
Before the American purchase of the territory , the current Louisiana State had been both a Spanish and French colony .
In addition , the pattern  of  development included importing numerous African  स्लेव  in the 18th century , with many from the same region of  वेस्ट  Africa , thus concentrating their culture .
In the post-Civil War environment ,  anglo-americans  increased the pressure for Anglicization , and in 1915 , English was made the  तभी  official language of the state .
Women  's  rights are the rights  और  entitlements claimed for women and girls of many societies worldwide .
In some places these rights are  institutionalized  or supported by  विधि  , local custom , and behaviour , whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed .
They differ from broader notions of  इंसान  rights through claims of  an  inherent historical and traditional bias against the exercise of  अधिकारों  by women  और  girls in favour of men and boys .
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's  अधिकारों  include , though are not limited  to  , the right  :  to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ;  to  hold public office  ;  to work ; to fair  मजदूरी  or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital , parental and religious rights .
The laws of science  or  scientific laws are  कथन  that describe , predict , and perhaps explain why , a range of phenomena  व्यवहार  as they appear to in nature .
The term `` law '' has diverse usage in many cases : approximate , accurate , broad or narrow theories , in all natural scientific  disciplines  ( physics , chemistry , biology ,  भूविज्ञान   ,  astronomy etc .  )  .
an  analogous term for a scientific law is  a  principle .
Scientific laws:
summarize a large collection of facts determined by experiment into a single statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one or several statements or equation  ,   or  at least stated in a single  वाक्य   ,  so that it can be used to predict the outcome of an  प्रयोग  , given the  आरंभिक  , boundary , and other  शारीरिक   शर्तें  of  the  processes which take place,
are strongly supported by empirical evidence - they are scientific knowledge that experiments have repeatedly verified ( and never falsified ) .
Their accuracy does not  बदलें  when new theories are worked out , but rather the scope of  अनुप्रयोग  , since the  समीकरण   (  if any  )  representing the law does not change  .
As with other scientific knowledge , they do  नहीं  have absolute  certainty  like mathematical theorems or identities , and it is  सदा  possible for a law to be overturned by future observations .
are  प्रायः  quoted as a  आधारभूत  controlling influence rather  than  a  वर्णन  of observed facts .
I.e .  ``  the laws of motion require  कि  ''
Laws differ from hypotheses and postulates , which are proposed during the scientific process before  और  during validation by experiment and observation .
ये  are not laws since they have not been verified to the same degree and may not be sufficiently  सामान्य  , although they  may   सीसे  to  the  formulation of laws .
A law is a more solidified and formal statement , distilled from repeated experiment .
Although the  अवधारणाओं  of a law or principle in nature  is  borderline to philosophy , and presents the  गहराई   to  which mathematics can describe nature , scientific laws are considered from a scientific perspective and follow the scientific  विधि  ; they `` serve  उनके  purpose ''  बल्कि  than ``  questioning  reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ) .
For example  ,  whether a law `` refers to reality  ''  is a philosophical  समस्या  , rather than scientific .
Fundamentally ,  सब  scientific laws follow from physics , laws which occur in other sciences ultimately follow from physical laws  .
Often , from mathematically fundamental viewpoints , universal constants emerge from scientific laws  .
The launch  of  the PlayStation  3  into the Japanese market on 10 November 2006 marked  the  second major seventh  पीढी  entertainment system to be released .
The system  थी  released  सात  days later  on  17 November in the United States .
Introduction into other  संसार   बाज़ार  was delayed by a shortage of diodes for  उपयोग  in the Blu-ray  डिस्क  player ;  the  device was launched in European and other world markets in the first half of 2007 .
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin ( formerly Williams and Grainger ) is a fictional character from the CBS soap operas The Young and the Restless and The Bold and the Beautiful , portrayed  by  Tracey E. Bregman .
She made her  डेब्यू  during the episode  airing  on January 21 , 1983 .
In 1992 , Bregman began making sporadic appearances on The Bold and the Beautiful , later resulting in the character migrating there fully in 1995 .
following  a guest appearance in 2000 , Bregman returned to The Young and the Restless on August 24 , 2001 , remaining on  पुनरावर्ती  status .
In 2013 , it was announced that Bregman had been placed on contract .
Much of Lauren 's history has revolved around her romances with Paul Williams ,  स्कॉट   grainger  , Sr. , and Michael Baldwin among many others causing a fierce rivalry with Traci Abbott Connolly .
Lauren is also famous for  उसके  long , violent  फंसने  with Sheila Carter .
The 2010  एनबीए  Finals was the National Basketball Association ( NBA ) championship series  लिये  the 2009–10 season .
The best-of-seven  playoff  was contested between  the  Los Angeles Lakers , champions of the Western Conference and defending NBA champions , and the Boston Celtics , champions of the Eastern  सम्मेलन  .
the  Lakers defeated the Celtics  ,  four games to three , to win the franchise 's 16th NBA championship .
The 64th edition of the  चैंपियनशिप  series was played between June 3 and June 17 , was broadcast on ABC , and  थी  watched by an average  of  18.1 million people .
The  सेल्टिक्स  earned their berth into  the  playoffs by winning the Atlantic  प्रभाग  .
The Lakers won the Pacific Division to earn their berth  .
The Celtics reached  the  NBA Finals by defeating the Miami Heat in  the  best-of-seven  पूर्वी  Conference First Round , the Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference  semifinals  , and defending Eastern conference  चैंपियन  Orlando Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals .
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Oklahoma City Thunder in the best-of-seven Western Conference First Round  ,  the Utah Jazz in  the  best-of-seven Western Conference Semifinals , and the Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven Western  सम्मेलन  Finals .
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the Major League Baseball World Series 2–3–2 seven  खेल  format , with the Lakers possessing home-court advantage as a reward for  finishing  with  बेहतर  regular season record than the Celtics .
Repeated baskets from starters Kobe Bryant , Pau Gasol , and Ron Artest  brought  the Lakers close to  विजय  in Game 1 .
A record breaking performance from  रे  Allen 's eight three-point baskets ensured the Celtics a Game  2  triumph  .
Derek Fisher ’s 11  अंक  in the  चौथी  quarter helped the Lakers win Game 3 .
The Celtics won  खेल  4 ; it did n't hurt that they  netted  an excellent performance in  baskets  by the team’s  reserves  , while Paul Pierce led the team  to  a Game 5 win with 27 points on  57  % shooting  इससे  the floor .
The Lakers avoided elimination by winning a decisive Game 6 with 24 points contributed by  उनके   बेंच  .
Although they trailed  the  Celtics by 13 points early in the third quarter , the Lakers rallied and won  उनके   दूसरी   लगातार   चैंपियनशिप  by taking over an exciting Game 7 aided by  लेट  contributions  on  offense by Pau Gasol  और  Artest and rebounding .
ब्रायंट  was named Most Valuable Player of the Finals for his second consecutive trophy .
This was the first NBA Finals to go the full seven games since and only the fourth since the NBA Finals returned to a 2–3–2 format  in   .
The Laker franchise has 16 NBA Championships ( Five in Minneapolis , 11 in  लॉस  Angeles )  trailing  the Celtics '  सत्रह  championships .
The NBA Finals used the `` World Series  ''   स्वरूप  in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated the Washington Capitols 4  खेल  to 2 ; in 1953 Minneapolis defeated the New York Knicks 4 games to 1 ; in 1954 Minneapolis defeated  the  Syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; and in 1955  syracuse  Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3 .
The NBA would return to the  2–2–1–1–1  National Hockey League seven game series format until 1985  .
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine  in  the family Piperaceae , cultivated for its fruit , which is usually dried and used as a spice and  seasoning  .
The  फल   ,  known as a  peppercorn  when dried , is  लगभग  in diameter , dark red when fully mature , and , like all drupes , contains a single seed .
Peppercorns , and the  मैदान  pepper derived from them , may be described simply as pepper , or more  precisely  as black pepper  (  cooked and dried unripe fruit ) , green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper (  सूखी  ripe seeds ) .
Black pepper is  देशी   to  south India , and is extensively cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical  regions  .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's  largest  producer and exporter of pepper , producing  34  % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008 .
Dried ground pepper has been used since antiquity for both its flavour  और  as a medicine .
Black  pepper  is the world 's most traded spice .
It is one  of  the most common spices added to European cuisine  और  its descendants .
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine , not to  be  confused with the capsaicin that  देता  fleshy peppers theirs .
It is in the modern  संसार  , often paired  साथ  salt .
In cardiovascular physiology , ejection fraction  (  EF ) represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of  the  ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle .
It can  be  applied to either  the  right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary  वाल्व  into the pulmonary circulation  or  the left ventricle which  ejects  via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation .
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art  कि   allows  meaningful mathematical expression defining EF .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become  a  worldwide  यूटिलिटी  enabling study of cardiac performance reproducibly and inexpensively .
Simplified , Ejection fraction is a mathematical product allowed by cardiac imaging .
As a mathematical term , Ejection Fraction is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac output .
Dedicated technology  ऐसे  as Echocardiography , Computed Tomography , Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have definitively allowed  clinically  relevant  गणित  regarding Ischemia , Congenital Heart  बीमारी  and Heart  विफलता  .
The prosecutor is the chief legal representative of the  अभियोजन  in countries with either the common law adversarial system , or the civil law  inquisitorial  system .
The prosecution is the legal party responsible for presenting the case in a criminal trial against an individual accused  of  breaking the law .
Strawberry shortcake most  commonly  means a  मिठाई  in the shortcake family of cakes .
Strawberry shortcake may also refer to:
Strawberry  shortcake   ,  a character and franchise created by American Greetings
The shortened title  of  Strawberry  on  the Shortcake , a Japanese romance movie .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 –  circa|  8 June 632 ) ,  भी  transliterated as Muhammad ( ) , was a  धार्मिक  , political , and  सैन्य  leader  इससे  Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam .
He  is  believed by  मुसलमान  and Bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God .
Muhammad is almost universally considered by Muslims as  the  last prophet sent by  परमेश्वर  for mankind .
Non-Muslims regard Muhammad as the founder of  islam  .
Muslims consider  उसे  to be the restorer of an unaltered original monotheistic faith of Adam , Noah , Abraham , Moses , Jesus , and other prophets .
Born in  परिचय  570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca , he was orphaned at an  जल्दी   आयु  and brought up  अंतर्गत  the care of his uncle Abu  तालिब  .
He later worked mostly as a merchant , as well as a shepherd  ,  and was first  शादीशुदा  by age 25 .
Being in the  आदत   of  periodically retreating to a cave in the  surrounding  mountains  लिये  several nights of seclusion and prayer , he later reported that it was there , at age 40 , that he received his first revelation from  परमेश्वर  .
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly , proclaiming that `` God is One  ``  , that complete `` surrender '' to Him  (  lit .
islām  )  is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to  परमेश्वर   ,  and that he himself was a prophet and  मेसेंजर   of  God , in the same vein as other Islamic prophets .
Muhammad gained few followers early on , and was met with hostility from some Meccan tribes ; he and his  अनुसरणकर्ता  were treated harshly .
To escape persecution , Muhammad sent some  of  his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622 .
This event , the Hijra , marks the beginning of the Islamic  पंचांग   ,  which is  भी  known as the Hijri Calendar .
In Medina , Muhammad united the  जनजातियों  under the Constitution of Medina .
After eight years of fighting with  the  Meccan tribes , his followers , who by then had grown to 10,000  ,  took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca  .
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then  भेजा  his followers out to destroy  सब  of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia .
In 632 , a few months after returning to Medina from The Farewell Pilgrimage , Muhammad fell  बीमार  and died .
By the time of his death , most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam , and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity .
The revelations ( or Ayah , lit  .
``  लक्षण  [ of God ]  ''  ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his death – form  the  verses of the Quran , regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and  around   जिससे  the religion is based .
Besides the Quran ,  मुहम्मद  's life ( sira  )   और  traditions ( sunnah ) are also  upheld  by Muslims  as  the sources of sharia law .
They discuss  मुहम्मद  and other prophets of Islam  साथ  reverence , adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned .
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times  यहूद   largely  negative , appraisals in modern history have  महरूम  far less so .
The  ग्रेट  Books  (  second edition )
Great  किताबे  of the Western World is a series of books originally  प्रकाशित  in  the  United States in 1952 by Encyclopædia Britannica Inc. to present the Great Books in a single package of 54 volumes .
The series is now in its second edition and contains 60  आयतन  .
The original editors  of  the series chose three criteria for inclusion : a  किताब   जरूर  be relevant  to  contemporary issues , and not only important in its historical  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  ; it must reward rereading ; and it must be a part of `` the great conversation about the great ideas ,  ''  relevant to  at  least 25  of  the 102 great ideas identified  by  the editors .
Books  यहूद  not chosen on the basis of ethnic or  सांस्कृतिक  inclusiveness , historical influence , or the editors ' agreement with the views expressed .
`` Cocaine ''  is  a song written and recorded by JJ Cale in 1976 , but also known as a cover version recorded by Eric Clapton  .
Allmusic calls the latter `` among  [  Clapton  's  ] most enduringly popular hits '' and notes that `` even for an artist like Clapton with a huge body of high-quality  कार्य  , 'Cocaine ' ranks among his best . ''
Glyn Johns , who had previously worked with The Who , Led Zeppelin and The Rolling Stones , produced the Clapton recording , which was released on Clapton 's 1977 album Slowhand and  as  a single in  1980  .
The live version of  ``  Cocaine '' , from the Just One Night album recorded in Tokyo , charted on the Billboard Hot 100 as  the  B-side of `` Tulsa Time `` , which was a No . 30  hit   in  1980.  ``
Cocaine '' was one of several of Cale 's songs  अंकित  by Clapton , including  ``  After Midnight `` and ``  travelin  ' Light ''  .
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the  जापानी   इम्पीरियल  General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning  )  and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a  आश्चर्य  military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning  of  December 7 , 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ) .
From  the  standpoint of  the  defenders , the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time .
The  आक्रमण  was intended as a  निवारक  action in order to keep  the  U.S.  प्रशांत  Fleet from  दखल  with military actions the Empire of Japan was  नियोजन   in  Southeast Asia  विरूद्ध  overseas territories of the  संयुक्त  Kingdom , the Netherlands , and the United States .
The  आधार  was attacked  by  353 Japanese fighters , bombers and torpedo planes in two waves , launched from six aircraft carriers .
All eight U.S. Navy battleships were damaged , with four being sunk  .
Two  of  these were  बाद  raised , and  साथ  the  बाकी   चार  repaired  ,   छह  battleships returned to service later in the war .
The Japanese also sank or damaged  तीन  cruisers , three destroyers , an anti-aircraft training ship , and one minelayer  .
188 U.S. aircraft were destroyed ; 2,402 Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded .
Important base installations such as  the  power station , shipyard , maintenance , and fuel and torpedo storage facilities , as well as the submarine  पियर  and headquarters  भवन  ( also home of the intelligence section )  यहूद  not attacked  .
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines lost  ,  and 65  servicemen  killed or wounded .
One Japanese sailor was captured .
The attack came as a profound shock  to  the American people and led directly  to  the American  प्रविष्टि  into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters  .
The following day ( December  8  ) , the United States declared war on Japan .
Domestic support for non-interventionism , which had been strong , disappeared .
Clandestine support of Britain ( for example the Neutrality Patrol )  थी  replaced by active alliance .
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and Italy to declare war on the U.S.  on  December 11  ,   जिससे  was reciprocated by the  u.S.  the same day  .
There were  numerous  historical precedents for unannounced military action by  जापानी  .
However  ,  the lack of any formal warning , particularly while negotiations were still apparently ongoing , led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December  7  , 1941 , `` a date which will live in infamy `` .
Project Runway Season 2 was the second season of Bravo 's successful Project Runway , a reality competition for fashion designers  .
Season 2 began airing on December 7  ,  2005 .
Following a nationwide search  पहले  in the year , sixteen designers were chosen as semi-finalists and brought to New York City in June , 2005 .
After the first challenge ,  पुकारा  `` Road To The Runway  ''  , fourteen went on to compete as finalists .
The winning designer , Chloe Dao , received  $  100,000 in seed money to  सहायता  launch her own line , a 2007  शनि  Sky roadster ,  a  spread in ELLE magazine , and  a  mentorship with the Banana Republic Design Team .
जीतना  alongside Dao was her model ,  अनुग्रह  Kelsey , who received the ELLE  पत्रिका  spread .
Michael Kors and Nina Garcia returned as judges for the second season .
The fourth judging seat rotated each week , based on the challenge .
Tim  gunn   ,  fashion chair  at  Parsons The New  स्कूल   लिये  Design , returned as a mentor for  the  designers .
Kara Janx later appeared in Project Runway :  सब  Stars in  2012  , where she finished 7th out of 13 .
Andrae Gonzalo , in the same year , competed in  the  second season of the All Stars edition placing 10th out of 13 .
an  example of a Heraclius mule
In numismatics ,  a  mule is  a  coin or medal  minted  with obverse and  रिवर्स  designs not  सामान्यतः  seen  on  the same piece .
These  can  be intentional or produced by error .
This type of error is highly sought after , and examples can fetch steep prices  इससे  collectors .
The earliest mules  हैं  found among  प्राचीन  Greek and Roman  सिक्के  .
Opinion is  विभाजित  between those who  सोचो   कि  they are accidental , the result of an incorrect combination of a new die with one that had officially been withdrawn from use , or the work  of   coiners  working with dies stolen from an official mint , perhaps at a time when one of them should have been destroyed .
The name derives from the mule , the hybrid offspring of a horse and a donkey ,  due  to such a coin having two sides intended for different coins , much as a mule has parents of two different species .
This page documents the tornadoes and tornado outbreaks of 2010 .
The majority of tornadoes form in the U.S. ,  लकिन  they can occur almost anywhere under  the  right conditions .
A lesser number occur outside the U.S. , most notably in parts of neighboring southern Canada during the  उत्तरी  Hemisphere 's summer season , but are also known in South America , Europe , Asia , and Australia .
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the United States in 2010 ( of which at least 1,266 were confirmed ) , with 45 confirmed fatalities .
elsewhere  in the  संसार  , 11 people were  मारे  in tornadoes , six  in  Argentina ,  तीन  in the  बहामा  , one in Bangladesh , and one in  जर्मनी  .
The year was near  औसत  for tornadoes despite  an  extremely quiet early spring period , however such changed after a huge  upswing   starting  in late April and a busy late spring and summer period .
The autumn  महीने  were slightly above average .
A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell in the vertebrate immune system .
Under the microscope , lymphocytes  can  be divided into large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes .
विशाल  granular lymphocytes include natural killer cells ( NK cells ) .
Small  lymphocytes  consist of T cells and B  कोशिकाएं  .
Windows PowerShell is Microsoft 's task automation framework  ,  consisting of a  command-line  shell and associated scripting language built  on  .NET Framework .
PowerShell provides full access to COM and WMI , enabling administrators to perform administrative tasks on both local and remote Windows systems .
In PowerShell ,  प्रशासनिक  tasks are generally performed by  cmdlets   (  pronounced command-lets ) , which are specialized .NET classes implementing a particular operation .
सेट   of  cmdlets may be combined together in scripts ,  executables  ( which are standalone applications )  ,   or  by instantiating regular .NET classes ( or WMI/COM Objects ) .
These work by  accessing  data in different data  स्टोर्स  , like the filesystem or registry , which are made available to the  powershell  runtime via Windows PowerShell providers .
खिड़कियाँ  PowerShell also provides a hosting API with which the Windows PowerShell runtime can be embedded inside other applications .
These applications can then  उपयोग  Windows PowerShell functionality to implement certain operations ,  सहित  those exposed via the  आलेखीय  interface  .
This capability  रै  been used by Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 to expose its management functionality as PowerShell cmdlets and providers and implement the graphical management tools as  powershell   होस्ट  which  invoke  the  जरुरी  cmdlets .
Other Microsoft applications including Microsoft SQL  सर्वर   2008  also  expose   उनके  management interface via PowerShell cmdlets .
With  powershell  , graphical interface-based management applications on Windows are layered on  शीर्ष  of Windows PowerShell .
A PowerShell scripting interface for Windows  उत्पाद  is mandated by the Common Engineering Criteria  .
Windows PowerShell includes its own extensive , console-based help , similar  to  man pages in Unix shells , via the Get-Help cmdlet .
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical film starring Julie Andrews , Dick  वैन  Dyke , David Tomlinson  ,  and Glynis Johns , produced by Walt Disney , and  आधारित  on the Mary Poppins books series by P. L. Travers .
The film  थी  directed by Robert Stevenson and written by Bill  वाल्श  and Don DaGradi , with songs by the Sherman Brothers .
It was shot  at   वॉल्ट  Disney Studios in Burbank ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Mary Poppins and the film also won Oscars for Best Film Editing , Original Music Score , Best Song for `` Chim  chim  Cher-ee '' and Best Visual Effects , and  प्राप्त  a total  of  13 nominations .
A story arc is an extended or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling media such as television , comic books , comic strips , boardgames  ,  video games , and in some cases ,  films  .
On a television program , for example , the story would  unfold  over many episodes .
In television , the use of the story arc is much more common in dramas than in comedies ,  विशेषकर  in soap operas .
Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs  than  newspaper comics  ,  as most web comics  have  readable archives online that a newcomer to the strip can read in  अनुक्रम  to understand what is going on .
Although  स्टोरी  arcs have existed for decades , the term `` story arc  ''  was coined in 1988 in relation to the television series Wiseguy , and  थी  quickly adapted for other uses .
Many American comic book series are now  लिखा  in four or six-issue arcs , within a continuing series .
Short story arcs are easier to package as trade paperbacks for resale , and  अधिक  accessible to the casual reader than the never-ending continuity that once characterised comics .
Black Friday is  the   दिन  following Thanksgiving Day in the United States  ,  often regarded  as  the beginning of the  क्रिसमस  shopping season .
In recent years , most major retailers have opened extremely early and offered promotional sales to kick off the holiday shopping season , similar to Boxing Day sales in many Commonwealth Nations .
ब्लैक  Friday is not an official public  अवकाश  as such ,  लकिन  many non-retail employees  और  schools have both Thanksgiving and the  दिन  after off  ,  followed by a weekend  ,  thereby increasing the number  of  potential shoppers .
it  has routinely  महरूम   the  busiest shopping day of the year since 2005 , although news reports , which at that time were  inaccurate  , have described it as the busiest shopping day of the year for a much longer period of time .
The day 's name  originated  in Philadelphia , where it originally was  प्रयुक्त  to describe the heavy and disruptive pedestrian and vehicle traffic which  होता  occur on the day after Thanksgiving .
Use of the term started before 1961 and began to see  broader  use outside Philadelphia around 1975 .
Later an alternative explanation began to be offered : that `` Black Friday '' indicates the point at which retailers begin to turn a profit , or  हैं  `` '' .
लिये  many years ,  it  was common for retailers to open at 6:00  a.m.  ,  लकिन  in the late 2000s many had crept to 5:00 or even 4:00 .
This was taken to a new extreme in 2011 , when several  रिटेलर  ( including Target , Kohl 's , Macy 's , Best Buy  ,  and Bealls )  खोली  at midnight for the first time .
In 2012 , Walmart and several other retailers announced that they  होता  open most of their stores at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( except  in  states where opening on Thanksgiving is prohibited due  to  blue laws , such as Massachusetts where  वे  still opened around midnight ) , prompting calls for a walkout  among  some workers .
Black Friday shopping is known for attracting  आक्रामक  crowds  ,  with annual reports of assaults ,  shootings   ,   और  throngs of people trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to get the best deal on a product  पहले   आपूर्तियाँ  run out  .
The Family That Preys is a 2008 American movie drama written  ,  produced  ,  and directed by Tyler Perry .
The screenplay  focuses  on two families , one wealthy and the other working class , whose lives are intertwined in both love and business .
The  फिल्म  is the second  of   चार  in which Perry  's  signature character  ,  Madea , does not  मेक  an appearance .
It is also the second Perry-directed film ( alongside Daddy 's Little  लड़कियों  ) that is not based on any of the filmmaker 's stage  plays  .
Net 10 , Net 15 , Net 30 and Net 60 ( also Net 10 days , et al ) are forms  of  trade credit which specify that the net amount ( the total outstanding on the invoice ) is expected to be paid in full and received by the seller within  10  , 15 ,  30  or 60 days after the  goods  are dispatched or service is completed .
जाल  30 or Net 60 terms are  प्रायः  coupled with a credit for early payment .
The word net in this sense means `` total after all discounts . ''
It originally derives from  the  Latin nitere ( to shine ) and nitidus ( elegant , trim )  ,  and more recently from the French net ( sharp , neat , clean ) .
Roadtown ,  tortola
the  British West Indies were the islands in and around  the  Caribbean that were part of the British Empire .
In 1912 ,  the  British West Indies were divided into  आठ  colonies : The  बहामा  , Barbados , British Guiana , British Honduras , Jamaica ( with its dependencies the Turks and Caicos  आइलैंड्स  and the Cayman Islands ) , Trinidad and  टोबैगो  ,  the  Windward Islands and  the  Leeward Islands .
Between 1958 and 1962 ,  सब  of the island territories except the British Virgin Islands , the Bahamas , British Honduras and British Guiana were organised into the West Indies Federation .
It was hoped that the Federation would become independent as a single nation , but it had limited powers , many practical problems ,  और  a lack  of  popular support .
Consequently , the West Indies Federation was dissolved .
Most of the territories , including  सब  the larger ones , are now independent as  पृथक  countries , with membership to many international forums such as the Organization of  अमरीकी  States  ,  the Association  of  Caribbean States , the World Trade Organization , the United Nations , the Caribbean Community , the Commonwealth of Nations and the Caribbean Development Bank among others .
The remainder are British overseas territories .
All the former  राष्ट्र   of  the British West Indies , except the Commonwealth of Dominica , Guyana and Trinidad and  टोबैगो  , are Commonwealth Realms .
The term  is   स्टिल  used for British Overseas Territories in the Caribbean ,  ऐसे  as the Cayman Islands .
The remaining British West Indies
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a song written by Bob Thiele ( as `` George Douglas ''  )  and George David  वेइस  .
It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and released as  a  single in 1967 .
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music world ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ) .
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999 .
The  प्रकाशन  for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group , Carlin  म्यूज़िक  Corp. , and Bug Music , Inc .
Inauguration Day 2009 on the west steps of the U.S. Capitol .
President George W. Bush  और  First Lady Laura Bush lead the inaugural  परेड  down Pennsylvania  एवेन्यू  to the  श्वेत  House , 2005
The  उद्घाटन   of  the  अध्यक्ष  of the United States is a ceremonial event  अंकन  the commencement  of  a new four-year term of a president of the United States .
The day a  अध्यक्षीय   उद्घाटन  occurs is  ज्ञात  as `` Inauguration Day '' and  occurs  on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ) .
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment , the date was March 4 ,  the  day of the year on which the Constitution of the United  राज्य  first took  प्रभाव  in 1789 ; the last inauguration to take place on the older date  थी  Franklin D. Roosevelt 's  पहला  one on March 4 , 1933 . )
The most recent public presidential inauguration ceremony , the swearing in of President Barack Obama to begin his second four-year term in office , took  प्लेस  on  सोमवार  , January 21  ,   2013  .
The only inauguration element mandated by the United States Constitution is  कि  the president make an oath or affirmation before that person can `` enter on the Execution '' of the office  of  the presidency .
However , over the years , various traditions have arisen that have expanded the inauguration from a simple oath-taking ceremony to a day-long  इवेंट  , including parades , speeches , and balls  .
From the presidency of Andrew Jackson through that of Jimmy Carter , the primary Inauguration  दिन  ceremony took place on the Capitol 's East Portico .
Since the 1981 inauguration of Ronald Reagan , the ceremony has been held at  the  Capitol 's West Front .
The inaugurations of William Howard Taft in 1909 and Reagan in 1985 were moved indoors at the Capitol due to cold weather .
The War of 1812 and World War II caused two inaugurations to be held at other locations in Washington , D.C .
When  जार्ज  Washington was inaugurated , the oath was administered by Robert Livingston , Chancellor of New  यॉर्क  State  ,  in 1789 ,  और  by William Cushing ,  संबद्ध  Justice of the Supreme Court  ,  in 1793 .
Since Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth swore in President John Adams , no chief justice has  छूटी  an Inauguration Day .
जब  Inauguration Day  रै  fallen on a Sunday , the chief justice has  administered  the oath to the president on the Sunday privately and then again the next day publicly  .
When a new president takes over mid-term due to  the   मौत  or resignation of a president ,  the  oath of office is administered but formal , public inauguration  कार्यक्रम  have not been held .
Stefani  जोआन  Angelina Germanotta ( ; born March 28 , 1986 ) , known by her stage name Lady Gaga , is an American singer , songwriter , record producer , dancer  ,  activist , businesswoman  ,  fashion designer , actress and philanthropist .
Born and raised in  नई  York City ,  वो  primarily studied at the Convent of the Sacred Heart and briefly attended New York University 's Tisch School of the Arts before withdrawing to focus on her musical career .
She soon  began   performing  in the rock music  झाँकी  of  मैनहटन  's  निम्नतर  East Side .
By the end of 2007 , record executive and producer Vincent Herbert signed her to his label Streamline Records , an imprint of Interscope Records .
Initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records , her vocal abilities captured the attention of  रिकॉर्डिंग  artist Akon ,  जो  also signed her to  kon  Live Distribution , his own label under Interscope .
Lady  गागा  came to prominence as a recording artist following the release of her debut album , The Fame ( 2008 ) , which was a critical and  वाणिज्यिक  success  कि  topped charts around the  संसार  and included the international number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face `` .
After embarking on the The Fame Ball  दौरे  , she followed the  एल्बम  with The Fame Monster ( 2009 ) , which spawned the worldwide hit singles `` Bad Romance `` , `` Telephone ``  ,  and `` Alejandro ``  .
The Fame Monsters success allowed her to embark on  the  eighteen-month long Monster Ball Tour , which later became one of the highest-grossing  कॉन्सर्ट  tours of all time .
Her most recent album , Born This Way ( 2011 ) , topped the charts of  सबसे  major markets and generated more international chart-topping singles , including `` Born This Way `` , `` Judas `` , and `` The Edge of Glory `` .
Influenced by Britney Spears , David Bowie , Michael Jackson ,  मैडोना  , and  महारानी  , Lady Gaga is recognized for her flamboyant , diverse and outré contributions to the music industry through her fashion , performances and music videos .
As of October 2011 , she has sold  an  estimated 23 million albums and 64 million singles worldwide and her singles are  कुछ  of the best-selling worldwide .
Her achievements include five Grammy Awards and 13  एमटीवी  Video Music Awards .
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in 2010 ) , ranked fourth in VH1 's list of  100  Greatest Women in Music , is the sixth best  selling  digital singles artist in US according to RIAA , is regularly placed on lists composed by Forbes magazine and was named one of the most influential  लोगों  in the world by Time magazine .
Besides her  musical  career , she involves herself with humanitarian  कल्याणकारी  and LGBT activism  .
McKethan Stadium home of Gator  बेसबॉल
A picture of the 1924 Baseball team
The Florida Gators baseball team represents the University of Florida  in  the sport of baseball  .
The Florida Gators  compete  in Division I of the  नेशनल  Collegiate Athletics Association  (  NCAA ) , and the Eastern Division of the Southeastern Conference ( SEC ) .
They play their home games in Alfred A. McKethan Stadium on the university 's Gainesville , Florida campus , and are currently led by head coach Kevin O'Sullivan .
In the  ninety-eight  season history of the Gators baseball program , the team has won  बारह  SEC championships and has appeared in  आठ  College World  श्रेणी  tournaments .
`` Electioneering '' redirects here .
लिये  the Radiohead song , see OK Computer .
Presidential campaign button for Abraham Lincoln , 1860 .
The reverse side of the button shows a portrait of his running mate Hannibal Hamlin  .
A political campaign is an organized effort which  seeks   to  influence the decision making process  भीतर  a  विशिष्ट  group .
In democracies , political campaigns often refer to electoral campaigns , wherein representatives are chosen or referendums are decided .
In modern  राजनीती  , the most high profile  राजनैतिक   अभियान   हैं  focused on candidates for head of state  or   सिर  of government ,  प्रायः  a President or Prime Minister .
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and her daughter , Harriot
Elizabeth Cady Stanton ( November 12 , 1815 – October 26 , 1902 ) was an American social activist , abolitionist , and leading figure  of  the early women 's rights movement .
Her Declaration of Sentiments , presented at the first women  's  rights convention held in 1848 in Seneca Falls , New York , is often credited with  initiating  the first  व्यवस्थित  women 's rights and women 's suffrage movements in the United States .
Before  stanton   narrowed  her political focus almost exclusively to women 's rights , she was an  क्रियाशील  abolitionist together  साथ  her husband , Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin , Gerrit Smith .
Unlike many  of  those involved in the women 's  अधिकारों  movement , Stanton addressed various issues pertaining  to  women  परे  voting rights .
Her concerns included women 's parental and custody rights , property rights , employment and income rights , divorce , the economic health of the family , and birth control  .
वो  was also an outspoken supporter of the 19th-century temperance movement .
After the American  सिविल  War , Stanton 's commitment to female  suffrage  caused a schism in the women 's rights movement when  वो  , together with Susan B. Anthony , declined to support passage of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution .
She opposed giving added legal protection and voting rights to  अफ़्रीकी  American men while women , black and white , were denied those same rights .
उसके  position on this issue , together with her thoughts on organized Christianity and  महिलाओं  's issues beyond voting rights , led to the  गठन  of two separate women 's  अधिकारों  organizations that were  आखिरकार  rejoined  ,  with Stanton  as  president of the joint organization , approximately twenty years after her  ब्रेक  from the original women 's suffrage movement .
Stanton died in 1902 having authored both The Woman 's Bible and her autobiography  ,  along with many articles and pamphlets concerning female suffrage  और  women 's  अधिकारों   .
My Fair  महिला  is a musical based upon George Bernard Shaw 's Pygmalion and with book and  गीत  by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe .
The story concerns Eliza Doolittle , a  काकनी   पुष्प  girl who takes speech lessons from professor Henry Higgins ,  a  phoneticist , so that she may pass as a well-born lady .
The musical 's 1956 Broadway production was a hit , setting what was then the record  लिये  the longest run of any major musical theatre  उत्पादन  in history .
It was  followed   by  a hit London production , a popular film  संस्करण  , and numerous revivals .
It has been called `` the perfect musical '' .
Deregulation is the  अधिनियम  or  प्रक्रम  of removing or reducing state regulations .
It is therefore opposite of regulation , which refers to the process of the government regulating  निश्चित  activities .
The Boston Bruins Radio Network is a 25-station ( 17  a.M.  , 8 F.M . plus 2 F.M . translators ) CBS Radio network which carries live game broadcasts of the Boston Bruins .
The network 's flagship station is  wbz-fm  /98.5- Boston , Massachusetts  .
Dave Goucher  announces  play-by-play .
Bob Beers provides color commentary .
This article is about the short story .
For the poem by  सारा  Teasdale , see There Will Come Soft Rains  .
`` There Will Come Soft Rains '' is a short story by science fiction author Ray Bradbury which  थी  first published  in  the May 6 , 1950 issue of Collier 's .
Later that same year  the  story was included in Bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 ) .
With over 1.2  अरब  people , Han Chinese is the largest  जातीय  group in the world .
Pashtun people of the  pashtunistan  region , which  sits  in an area between south of the Hindu Kush  in  Afghanistan and the Indus River in Pakistan .
They number around 50 million .
The Korowai people of  पापुआ  numbered just around 3,000 people  ,  and were uncontacted  जबतक  the 1970s .
नस्ल  or ethnic group is a socially defined category based on common culture or nationality .
Ethnicity can , but does not have to , include common ancestry , appearance , cuisine , dressing style , heritage , history , language or dialect , religion , symbols , traditions , or other cultural factor .
जातीय  identity is constantly reinforced through common  विशेषताएँ  which set the group apart from other groups .
The  19.9  MW Gemasolar solar plant in  स्पेन  features 15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day  .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from  the  sun , has been  harnessed  by humans since  प्राचीन  times using a range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity  ,  solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis , which can  मेक  considerable  योगदान  to solving some of the  सबसे  urgent  उर्जा  problems the world now faces .
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the  रास्ता  they capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active  सौर  techniques include the use  of  photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy .
passive  solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun , selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or  लाइट  dispersing properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Energy Agency said that  ``  the development of affordable , inexhaustible and clean solar  उर्जा  technologies will have huge longer-term  लाभ  .
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible  और  mostly import-independent resource  ,  enhance sustainability , reduce pollution , lower the costs of mitigating climate change ,  और  keep  चट्टान  fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These advantages  हैं  global .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
The classical Latin alphabet or Roman alphabet evolved from a western variety of the  यूनानी  alphabet called the Cumaean alphabet , which was adopted and modified by the Etruscans who ruled early Rome .
The  etruscan  alphabet  थी  in turn adopted and further modified by the ancient Romans to write the  लैटिन  language .
During  the  Middle Ages , the Latin alphabet was adapted to Romance languages , direct  वंशजों  of  लैटिन   ,  as well  as  to Celtic , Germanic ,  बाल्टिक  , and some Slavic languages .
With the age of  उपनिवेशवाद   और   ईसाई  evangelism ,  the  Latin script was spread overseas , and applied to indigenous American ,  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई   ,  Austronesian , Austroasiatic , and African languages  .
More recently , linguists have  भी  tended to prefer the  लैटिन  script or the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Phonetic Alphabet ( itself largely based on Latin script ) when transcribing or creating written standards  लिये  non-European languages ,  ऐसे  as the African reference  वर्णमाला  .
The term Latin alphabet may refer  to  either the alphabet used  to  write Latin ( as described in this article ) , or other alphabets based  on  the  लैटिन  script ,  जिससे  is the basic set of letters common to the various alphabets descended from the classical  लैटिन  one , such as the English  वर्णमाला  .
These Latin-derived alphabets may discard letters , like the Rotokas alphabet , or add new letters , like the Danish and Norwegian  वर्णमाला  .
Letter shapes have changed over the centuries , including  the  creation for Medieval Latin of lower case forms which did not exist  in  the  शास्त्रीय  period .
The assassination of United  राज्य  President Abraham Lincoln took place on Good  शुक्रवार  , April 14 , 1865 , as the American Civil War was drawing to a  बंद  .
the  assassination occurred five days after the commander of the Confederate  फौज  of Northern Virginia , General Robert E. Lee , surrendered  to  Lieutenant General Ulysses S.  ग्रान्ट  and the Union Army  of  the Potomac .
Lincoln was the first American president  to   be  assassinated , though an unsuccessful attempt  था  been made on Andrew Jackson 30 years before in 1835  .
The assassination was planned and carried out by the well-known stage actor John Wilkes Booth , as part of  a  larger conspiracy in a bid to revive the  confederate  cause .
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and  दाउद  Herold  ,  who were assigned to kill  सचिव  of State William H. Seward , and  जार्ज  Atzerodt who was to kill Vice President Andrew  जॉनसन  .
By simultaneously eliminating the top three people in the administration , Booth and his co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity of the United States government .
Lincoln was shot while watching the play Our American Cousin with his wife Mary Todd Lincoln at Ford 's Theatre in Washington  ,  D.C. on the night  of  April 14 , 1865 .
He died  जल्दी  the next morning .
The rest of  the  conspirators ' plot  विफल  ; Powell only managed to wound Seward , while Atzerodt ,  जॉनसन  's would-be assassin , lost his nerve and fled Washington .
add-on  might mean:
Plug-in ( computing ) , a piece  of  software which enhances another software application and usually can  नहीं  be run independently
Browser extension , which modifies the interface and/or behavior of web browsers
Add-on ( Mozilla )  ,  a piece of software that enhances and customizes Mozilla-based  अनुप्रयोग
Add-ons for  फायरफॉक्स  (  addons.mozilla.org   )   ,  the official Mozilla  न्यास  web site which serves as a repository of add-ons for Mozilla-based applications
Peripheral , an optional computer hardware component that significantly supplements or enhances the functionality of the original unit
Video game accessory  ,   a  piece of hardware used in conjunction with a video game console for playing video games
Club  स्तर   seating  is a special section of seating in modern sports  स्टेडियम  .
The Club Level is usually located towards the middle of the stage of seating sections ,  ऊपर  the  निम्नतर   डेक   लकिन  below the upper deck .
वे  are usually right next to the Luxury Boxes , either right above , right below , or sandwiched between two levels of Luxury Boxes .
Club Level seating is considered as higher class than sitting  anywhere  else in the arena , but lower class compared to the Luxury Boxes .
नापसंद  the  लक्ज़री  Boxes , most club levels do not wrap entirely around the arena .
कुछ  club levels stop at a certain point , giving way to an  विस्तार  of  the  Mezzanine , while others give way to lower class Luxury Boxes (  ऐसे  as `` Party Suites '' ) .
A notable exception to this is  अमीरात  Stadium in London , which has a complete tier of club seating  .
Club Levels allow fans multiple levels of entertainment  .
क्लबों  Level seating is open to the elements , as opposed to  the   entirely  enclosed luxury boxes , which gives more of an outdoors impression at roofless and open-roof stadiums  और   arenas  .
क्लबों   स्तर  seating is normally bought on a contract  आधार  to allow for maximum profit on  the   भाग  of the stadium .
The Club Level provides  प्रशंसक  with special access to  an  indoor part of the arena exclusive to fans with special tickets .
These areas are air conditioned and allow access to special restaurants , merchandise stands , and lounge areas of  the  stadium that are not otherwise available .
Concession stands and  विक्रेता  on the Club Level  भी  often offer different menus than in other stands to give  अधिक  of a special feel to the  क्लबों  .
These areas are closed off to the rest of the stadium  ,  and  वे  usually can only be accessed  through  the exclusive , private club  entrances   .
Sophia Loren (  ;  born Sofia Villani Scicolone ; 20 September 1934 ) is an Italian actress .
Loren is widely recognized as Italy 's most renowned and honored  अभिनेत्री  .
She was the first actress of the talkie era to win an  अकादमी  Award for a non-English-speaking performance , for her portrayal of Cesira in Vittorio De Sica 's Two Women .
Her other awards include a Grammy  पुरस्कार  , five  खास  Golden  ग्लोब्स  , a BAFTA Award and a Laurel Award .
In 1995 she received the  सेसिल  B. DeMille Award for lifetime achievements , one  of  many such awards .
Her films include : Houseboat ( 1958 ) , El Cid ( 1961 ) , Yesterday , Today and Tomorrow ( 1963 ) , Marriage  italian-style  ( 1964 ) , and  a  Special Day ( 1977 ) .
In later  सालो  she has  appeared  in American blockbusters such as  grumpier  Old Men ( 1995 ) , and Nine ( 2009 ) .
In 1994 she starred in Robert Altman  's   prêt-à-porter  , which earned her a Golden Globe nomination the same year .
She has also achieved critical and commercial success in TV movies such as Courage ( 1986 ) .
Deaths for self-inflicted injuries per 100,000 inhabitants in 2004 .
Incidence of suicide is underreported due to both religious and social pressures , and possibly completely unreported in some areas .
Nevertheless , from reported cases  ,  certain trends are apparent  .
Since the data is skewed , comparing suicide rates between nations is statistically unsound .
The trends themselves are not the cause , but may be indicative of a  रूट  cause .
The Oprah Winfrey  नेतृत्व  Academy for Girls - South Africa is a female boarding school founded in January 2007 and located in Henley on Klip near Meyerton , south of  जोहान्सबर्ग  , South Africa  .
The academy was founded by Oprah  विनफ्रे  with the goal of providing educational and leadership opportunities for academically gifted girls from impoverished backgrounds .
Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls
digicel  is a mobile phone  संजाल  provider operating in 31 markets across the Caribbean , Central  अमेरिका  , and Oceania regions .
The company is owned by Irishman Denis O'Brien , is incorporated in Bermuda , and based in  जमैका  .
It has about  13  million wireless users .
As of 2012 , Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla , Antigua  और  Barbuda , Aruba  ,  Barbados , Bermuda , Bonaire , the British  वर्जिन  Islands , the Cayman Islands , Curacao , Dominica ,  el  Salvador , Fiji , French Guiana , Grenada  ,  Guadeloupe , Guyana , Haiti , Jamaica , Martinique , Nauru  ,   पनामा  , Papua New Guinea , Samoa , Saint Kitts and Nevis , Saint Lucia ,  संत  Vincent and the  grenadines  , Suriname , Tonga , Trinidad & Tobago , Turks and Caicos ,  और  Vanuatu .
This is a list of records of  the  FIFA World Cup and  इसके   योग्यता  matches .
Hospital Emergency Codes are used in hospitals worldwide to alert staff to various  emergencies  .
The use  of   कोड  is intended to convey essential information quickly  और  with minimal misunderstanding to  स्टाफ  , while preventing stress and panic among visitors to the hospital  .
These codes may be posted on placards throughout the hospital , or printed on employee identification badges for ready reference .
Back of a hospital  id  badge showing disaster  कोड  .
Hospital emergency codes may denote different events at  अलग  hospitals , including nearby ones .
Because many physicians work at more than one facility , this  may  lead to  भ्रम  in emergencies  ,  so uniform systems have been proposed .
The route of  the  Eifel aqueduct , with its average slope  .
The Eifel Aqueduct was one of  the  longest aqueducts of the Roman Empire .
The aqueduct , constructed in AD 80 , carried water some from the hilly Eifel region of what is now Germany to the ancient city  of  Colonia  claudia  Ara  agrippinensium  ( present-day  कोलोन  ) .
If the auxiliary spurs  to  additional springs are  शामिल  , the length was .
The construction was almost entirely below ground , and the flow of  the  water was produced entirely by gravity .
A few bridges , including one up to in length ,  यहूद   needed  to pass over valleys .
Unlike some of the other famous Roman aqueducts , the Eifel aqueduct  थी  specifically designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from  क्षति  and freezing .
In chemistry , a disulfide bond ( Br.E . disulphide bond ) is a covalent bond , usually derived by the coupling of two thiol groups  .
The linkage is also called an SS-bond or disulfide bridge .
The overall connectivity is therefore R-S-S-R .
The terminology  is   widely  used in biochemistry .
In formal  शर्तें  , the connection is a persulfide , in  सादृश्य  to its congener , peroxide ( R-O-O-R ) , but this terminology is obscure and is no longer used ( except in reference to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H  यौगिकों  ) .
औपचारिक  depiction of disulfide bond  गठन  as an oxidation .
Westminster Abbey is used for  the  coronation of British monarchs
Religion in the United  किंगडम  and in the countries that preceded it , has been dominated  ,  for over 1,400 years , by  विभिन्न  forms of Christianity .
According  to  some surveys  ,  a majority of citizens still identify with Christianity  ,  although regular church attendance has fallen dramatically since the middle of the 20th  सदी  , and immigration and demographic change  have  contributed to the growth of  अन्य  faiths .
धार्मिक  affiliations of UK citizens are recorded  by   नियमित  surveys , the four major ones being the UK Census , the Labour Force Survey  ,   the  British Social  attitudes   सर्वेक्षण  and the European Social Survey .
according  to the  2001   uk  census , Christianity  is   the  major religion , followed  by  Islam , Hinduism , Sikhism , Judaism and Buddhism in terms  of  number of adherents .
इस  , and the relatively large number of individuals with  नाममात्र  or no religious affiliations has led commentators  to  variously describe  the  United Kingdom as a multi-faith , secularised , or post-Christian society .
The United Kingdom was formed by the union of previously independent countries from 1707 , and consequently most of the largest religious groups do not have UK-wide organisational structures .
While some  समूह  have separate structures for the individual countries of the United Kingdom  ,  others  may  have a single structure covering England and Wales  or  Great Britain .
Similarly , due to the relatively recent creation of Northern Ireland in 1921 , most major religious groups in Northern Ireland are organised  on  an  all-ireland  basis  .
The 1967 Newark  दंगे  were a  प्रमुख  civil  disturbance  that occurred in the city of Newark , New Jersey between July 12 and July 17 ,  1967  .
The six days of rioting , looting , and destruction left 26 dead and hundreds injured .
In United States college athletics , redshirt is a delay or suspension  of  an  खिलाड़ी  's  भागीदारी  in order  to  lengthen his or her period of eligibility .
Typically , a student 's athletic eligibility in a given sport is four seasons , a number  निकला  from the four years of academic classes that are normally  जरूरी  to obtain a bachelor 's degree  at  an  अमरीकी  college or  विश्वविद्यालयों  .
However , a student athlete  may  be offered  the  opportunity to redshirt for up to two years , which allows the athlete to spread those four years of eligibility  over   पाँच  , or sometimes six years .
In a redshirt year , a student athlete may attend classes  at  the college or university , practice with an athletic team , and dress for play but he or she may not compete  दौरान  the game .
Using this mechanism ,  a  student athlete has up to five  अकादमिक  years  to  use  the  four years of eligibility , thus becoming a fifth-year senior .
The term is used as a verb ,  संज्ञा   ,  and  क्रियाशील  .
लिये  example , a coach may  चुनें  to redshirt a player who is then referred to as a redshirt freshman or simply a redshirt .
The opposite  of  this is a ``  सच्चा  freshman . ''
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
it  was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start  of  World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's  ग्रेट  powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the  संयुक्त  Kingdom  ,  France  और  Russia ) and the Central  शक्तियां  ( originally  the  Triple Alliance of Germany  ,  Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary  था  taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy  किया  not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States  joined  the  allies  , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central  शक्तियां  .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel  ,  including 60 million Europeans  ,  were mobilised in one of the largest  युद्धों   in  history .
अधिक  than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world  इतिहास  , subsequently paving the way for  विभिन्न  political changes , such  as  revolutions in many of the nations involved .
एक  of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great  शक्तियां  of Europe .
More  तत्काल  , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in  साराजेवो  triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked .
Within weeks , the  प्रमुख  powers  यहूद  at war and ,  via  their colonies , the conflict soon  स्प्रेड  around the world .
On 28 July ,  the  Austro-Hungarians  fired  the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the  जर्मनी  march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of  the  Marne —the Western Front settled into a static  बैटल  of attrition with  a  trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against  the  Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in its invasion of East  prussia  by the Germans .
in  November the Ottoman Empire joined the  युद्ध  , opening up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy  और  Bulgaria went to war in 1915 and  रोमानिया   in  1916 .
In Russia , the tsar  's  government collapsed in March  1917   और  a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians  to  terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918  जर्मनी  offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back the  germans  in  a   श्रेणी  of successful offensives and American  शक्तियां  began entering the trenches  .
Germany , which  था  its own trouble with revolutionaries ,  सहमत  to an armistice  on  11 November 1918 .
The war ended in victory for the Allies .
Events on the  घर  fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four  प्रमुख  imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory , while the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central Europe was redrawn into several smaller states .
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War  ii  .
Map of countries that declared themselves to be socialist states under  the  Marxist–Leninist or Maoist definition - that is to say , `` Communist states '' - between 1979 and 1983 .
इस  period marked the greatest territorial extent of Communist states .
A communist state is a  राज्य  where the means of production are collectively owned by the society  .
It has a form of government characterized by  single-party  rule or dominant-party rule of a communist party ( referred  as  Dictatorship of the Proletariat by its proponents ) and a professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state .
Technically , `` communist  राज्य  '' is a  contradictio  in terminis as a communist  समाज  as defined by both  माक्र्सवादी  and anarcho-communists  is   in  principle stateless .
From this perspective , the term Marxist-Leninist state is more  उचित  .
historically  , a `` communist state  ''  referred to a  प्रणाली  where public ownership of all or most means of production by the Communist  पार्टी  -run state is deemed necessary to further the interests of the working class ; today  ,  a communist state can also , for instance , refer  to  contemporary China and Vietnam  ,   जहाँ  a Communist Party-run state exists alongside a mixed economy  .
According to Marxist–Leninists , the state is a tool in the hands of the ruling class , which in a socialist society is the working class ,  so  a socialist state is , according  to   leninists  ,  a  state of the working class .
In practice , communist states do  नहीं  actually refer to themselves as  ऐसे  .
They do this  नहीं  to disguise the fact  कि  the ruling  पार्टी  is communist , but rather because they do not  consider  themselves to  be  a communist society at  उपस्थित  .
Instead , they constitutionally identify themselves as socialist states or  मजदूर  ' states .
The primary goal of  ये  states , which also explains their official name , is to guide their respective countries in the process of building socialism ,  ultimately  leading to communism  .
Communist states may have several legal political parties , but  the  communist party is  प्रायः  granted a special or dominant role in government , often  by  statute or under the constitution .
Consequently , the institutions of the  राज्य  and of the communist party become  intimately  entwined , such as in the development of parallel  संस्थानों   .
In the 20th century , most  कम्युनिस्ट  states adopted planned economies .
However , there were exceptions :  the  Soviet Union during the 1920s and late 1980s and Yugoslavia after  संसार  War II allowed limited markets and a degree  of  worker self-management , while China , Vietnam and Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s .
In the  21st  century , China and Vietnam have allowed a  मिश्रित  economy to develop .
The fundamental concepts of  कम्युनिस्ट  states often diverge from the original socio-economic ideologies from  जिससे  they develop .
as   a  result , many adherents of these ideologies often oppose the political systems commonly associated with these states .
लिये  example , dissenting communists such as  trotskyists  were often opposed to the communist states of the 20th century , claiming either that they had nothing to do  साथ   ``  real '' communism or  कि  the ideology of such states had reached a point of irrevocable corruption .
माइकल  Fred  फेल्प्स  II ( born June 30 ,  1985  ) is a retired American swimmer and the most decorated Olympian of all time , with a total of 22  medals   .
Phelps also holds the all-time records for  ओलम्पिक  gold medals ( 18 , double the second highest record holders ) ,  ओलम्पिक  gold  medals  in individual events  (  11  )  , and Olympic medals in individual events for a male ( 13 )  .
In winning eight gold medals  at  the 2008 Beijing Games ,  फेल्प्स  took the record for the most first-place finishes at any single Olympic Games .
Five of those  victories  were  in  individual events , tying  the  single Games  रिकार्ड  .
In the 2012 Summer Olympics in London , Phelps won four golds and two silver medals , making him the most successful athlete of the Games for the third Olympics in a row .
फेल्प्स   is   the   long  course world recordholder in the 100-meter butterfly , 200-meter butterfly and 400-meter individual medley as well as the former long course world recordholder in the 200-meter  फ्रीस्टाइल  and 200-meter individual medley .
He has won a total of 71 medals in major international long-course competition  ,  57 gold  ,  11 silver , and three bronze spanning the Olympics , the  संसार  , and the Pan Pacific Championships .
Phelps 's international titles  और  record-breaking performances have earned him  the   संसार  Swimmer of the Year Award  सात  times and American Swimmer of the Year  पुरस्कार  nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in  2012  .
His  unprecedented  Olympic success in 2008 earned Phelps Sports Illustrated magazine 's Sportsman of the Year award .
After the 2008  गर्मियाँ  Olympics , Phelps started the Michael Phelps Foundation , which focuses on growing the sport of swimming  और   promoting  healthier lifestyles .
He expects  to   do  further work with his foundation after the 2012 Olympics , which he has said will be his last .
Lenovo Group  सीमित  ( ) is a Chinese multinational computer hardware and electronics company with its headquarters in Beijing , China and Morrisville , North Carolina and  इसके  registered  दफ्तर   in  Hong Kong , China .
Its products include personal  कंप्यूटर   ,  tablet computers , mobile phones , workstations  ,  servers , electronic storage devices , IT management software and  smart  televisions .
Lenovo is the world 's second-largest  pc  vendor by 2012  ईकाई  sales  .
It  बाज़ार  the ThinkPad line of  कोपी  computers  और  the ThinkCentre line of desktops .
Lenovo  रै  operations in more than 60 countries and sells its products in around 160 countries .
Lenovo was founded in Beijing in 1984 and incorporated  in  Hong Kong in 1988 under its  पिछला  name , Legend .
Lenovo is listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the  हैंग  Seng China-Affiliated  corporations  Index .
Slug is a common name for an apparently shell-less terrestrial  gastropod  mollusk .
The word `` slug '' is also often used as part of  the  common name of any gastropod mollusc  कि  has no  शेल  , has  a  very reduced shell , or has only a small internal shell .
(  This is in contrast to the  आम  name `` snail `` , which  is  applied to gastropods that have  a  coiled shell that  is  large enough that the soft parts of the animal can  retract  fully into it . )
Slugs exist on  जमीन  and in the sea , and there is even one genus of freshwater  slugs   ,  Acochlidium .
The unadorned word `` slug '' is however  लागू  primarily to land slugs , whereas slugs from the sea or from freshwater are usually referred to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs ''  .
Land gastropods with a shell  कि  is not quite vestigial , but is too small to  retract  into ( like many in the family Urocyclidae )  ,  are known  as  semislugs .
The various taxonomic families of slugs form part of several  काफी  different evolutionary lineages which also include snails .
यूँ  ,  लिये  example ,  the  various families of land slugs are not very closely related to  एक  another , despite  a  superficial similarity in the overall body  रूप  .
The shell-less condition has arisen  अनेक  times independently during the evolutionary past  ,  and thus the category `` slug  ''  is emphatically a polyphyletic one .
slugs  , like all other  gastropods  , undergo torsion ( a 180° twisting of the internal  अंगों  ) during development .
Internally ,  स्लग  anatomy clearly shows the effects of this  रोटेशन  , but externally the bodies of land slugs appear to be more or less symmetrical , except for  the  positioning of the pneumostome  ,  which  is  on one side  of   the  animal , normally the right hand side .
The soft , slimy bodies of slugs are prone to desiccation , so land-living slugs are confined to moist environments and must retreat to damp hiding places when  the  weather is dry .
the  subsequent information  in  this article applies to land slugs  .
is a  लैटिन   शब्द  that means `` thus  ''  or , in writing , `` it was thus in the source material ''  .
Sic may also refer to:
Sic , Cluj ,  a  commune in Romania
SIC  ,  the regional  कोड  for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ) , styled as [ sic ] , stage name of Jennifer Morris  ,  a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash metal band from Torshavn , the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '' , a song by American  बैंड  Slipknot on the album Slipknot
sic  , the initial of Marco Simoncelli .
SIC as an acronym may  स्टैंड  for:
SiC , Silicon carbide ,  a  semiconducting material , also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification , a 20th-century  u.S.  system for classifying  उद्योग
अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Standard Industrial Classification a UN system for economic activities
Shetland Islands Council
the Swiss Interbank Clearing system
San Isidro Club , an Argentine rugby union club
Standing Interpretation Committee , a committee dedicated to the interpretation  of  international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information criterion in  the  field  of  statistics
Second-in-command in the field  of  aviation
Sistema Interconectado  सेंट्रल  power grid in Chile
Sociedade Independente  de  Comunicação ( SIC ) , a  टेलीविज़न  channel in  पुर्तगाल
Sea Isle City , New  जर्सी  , a coastal town in the United States
segmented   पूर्णांक  Counter mode , a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang International Circuit , a high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai International  सर्किट  ,  a   मोटर  racing venue in  शंघाई  , China
Simplified instructional computer , a hypothetical computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ) ,  an  early  twentieth-century  art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College , a two year Junior College in Harrisburg , Illinois , United States
Specific inductive  क्षमता  , abbreviated to SIC , which is more commonly  ज्ञात  as the relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
st  Ignatius '  कॉलेज   ,  Riverview , a Jesuit school in Sydney , Australia
Imperial Standard of Napoleon I
Napoleon Bonaparte ( , ; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) was a French military and political leader who rose to prominence during the latter stages of the  फ्रेंच  Revolution and its associated wars in Europe .
as  Napoleon I , he was Emperor of  the  French from 1804  to  1815  .
His  विधिक  reform , the Napoleonic Code , has been a  प्रमुख  influence on many civil law jurisdictions  विश्वव्यापी   ,  but he is best remembered for his  भूमिका  in the wars led against France by a series of coalitions , the  so-called  Napoleonic Wars  .
He established hegemony over most of continental Europe and sought  to  spread the  आदर्शों   of  the French Revolution , while consolidating an imperial monarchy which restored aspects of the deposed Ancien Régime .
Due to his success in these wars ,  प्रायः   विरूद्ध  numerically superior enemies , he is generally regarded as one of the greatest military  कमांडरों  of all time , and his campaigns are studied at military academies worldwide .
Napoleon was born at Ajaccio in Corsica in a family of  प्रतिष्ठित  Italian ancestry which had settled Corsica in the 16th century .
He trained  as  an artillery officer in mainland France .
He rose to prominence under the French First Republic and led successful campaigns against the First and Second Coalitions arrayed  विरूद्ध  France .
he  led a successful invasion of the Italian peninsula .
In 1799 ,  he   मंचन  a coup d'état  और  installed himself as First Consul ; five  सालो  later  the  French Senate proclaimed him emperor , following a plebiscite in his favour .
In the first decade of the 19th  सदी  , the French Empire under Napoleon engaged in a series of conflicts—the Napoleonic Wars —that  शामिल   प्रत्येक  major European power .
After a streak of victories , France  secured  a dominant position in continental Europe , and Napoleon maintained the French sphere of influence through the  गठन  of extensive alliances and the appointment of friends and family members  to  rule other European countries  as   फ्रेंच  client states .
the  Peninsular War and 1812 French invasion of Russia marked turning points in Napoleon 's fortunes .
His Grande Armée was badly damaged in the campaign and never fully recovered .
In 1813 , the Sixth Coalition defeated his  शक्तियां  at Leipzig  ;   the   following  year the Coalition invaded France , forced Napoleon to abdicate and exiled  उसे  to the island of Elba .
Less than a year later , he escaped Elba and returned to power , but was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo in June  1815   .
Napoleon spent  the  last six years of his life in confinement by the British on the island  of  Saint Helena .
An autopsy concluded he  died  of  पेट  cancer , but there has been some debate about the cause of his death , as some scholars have speculated that he was a victim of arsenic  विषाक्तता  .
This is a chronological listing  of   the  United States Senators from Pennsylvania .
संयुक्त  States Senators  हैं   popularly  elected , for a six-year term , beginning  जनवरी  3 .
Elections are  आयोजित  the first Tuesday after  नवम्बर  1 .
Before 1914 , they  यहूद  chosen by the  पेन्सिलवेनिया   सामान्य   सभा   ,   और  before 1935 ,  उनके  terms began March 4 .
The South Africa national  रग्बी  union team  (  known as the Springboks ) represents South Africa in rugby union .
They compete in the annual  रग्बी  Championship , along with southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina , Australia and New  जीलैंड  .
वे  have won this  चैंपियनशिप  on three occasions in sixteen years  .
They are currently ranked second in the world by  the  International Rugby Board , and were named 2008 World Team of the Year at the Laureus World Sports Awards  .
Although South  अफ़्रीकी  was instrumental in the creation of the Rugby World Cup competition , the Springboks did not compete in  the  first two World Cups in 1987  और  1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa .
The team made its World  कप  debut in 1995  ,  when the newly democratic South Africa hosted the tournament .
The Springboks then defeated the All Blacks 15–12 in the  फाइनल  , which is now remembered as one of the greatest moments in South Africa 's sporting history , and  a  watershed moment in  the   post-apartheid  nation-building process  .
South Africa regained their title as champions 12  सालो  later , when  वे  defeated  इंग्लैण्ड  15–6 in the 2007 final .
As a result of the 2007 World Cup tournament the Springboks  यहूद  promoted to first place in the IRB World Rankings , a position  वे  held until July the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot .
The  springboks  play in  ग्रीन  and gold jerseys , and their emblems are the  springbok  and the Protea .
the  side has been playing international rugby since 1891  ,  when a British  isles  side toured the nation , playing  दक्षिण  Africa in  उनके  first Test on 30 July .
दक्षिण  Africa was coached by Jake White , who led the Boks to the  2007  World Cup title , announcing his resignation effectively from the  समाप्त  of 2007  .
His replacement  's  ( Peter de Villiers ) contract expired in 2011 , following a 11–9 defeat to Australia in  the   रग्बी  World Cup quarter-final , who then stated he would not  be  signing a new deal .
The previous captain was John Smit , who before he retired in  2011  played hooker for most of his career , although he has also been a prop , mainly in 2008 and 2009 .
Due to Smit being unavailable for the November 2010 Tests after  सर्जरी  , lock Victor  matfield  took Smit 's place as captain for that tour .
The current captain is Jean de Villiers .
the  Battle  of  Gettysburg ( , with an sound ) , was  लड़ा  July 1–3  ,  1863 , in and around the town  of  Gettysburg , Pennsylvania  .
It was the battle with the largest  क्रमांक  of casualties in the American Civil War and is often described  as  the war 's turning point .
Union Maj. Gen. George Gordon Meade 's Army of the  potomac  defeated attacks by Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee 's  फौज   of  Northern Virginia  ,  ending Lee  's  invasion of the North .
After  उसके  success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in May 1863 , Lee led  उसके  army through the Shenandoah Valley to begin his second invasion of the North—the  gettysburg  Campaign .
With his army in high spirits , Lee  intended  to shift  the  focus of the summer campaign from war-ravaged northern Virginia and hoped to influence Northern politicians to give up their prosecution of  the  war by penetrating as far as Harrisburg , Pennsylvania , or even Philadelphia .
Prodded by President Abraham Lincoln , Maj. Gen. Joseph  वेश्या  moved his army in  pursuit   ,  but was relieved just three days  पहले  the battle and replaced by Meade .
Elements of the  दो  armies initially collided at Gettysburg on July 1 , 1863 , as Lee  तत्काल  concentrated his forces there  ,  his objective being to engage  the  Union army  और  destroy it .
Low ridges to the northwest  of  town  यहूद  defended initially by  a  Union cavalry division under  ब्रिगेडियर  . Gen. John Buford , and soon reinforced with two corps of Union infantry .
However  ,  two large Confederate corps assaulted them from the northwest and north , collapsing the hastily developed Union lines , sending the  defenders  retreating through the streets of town to the  पहाड़ियाँ  just to the  दक्षिण  .
On the second day of battle , most of both armies had assembled  .
The Union line was laid out in a  रक्षात्मक  formation resembling  a  fishhook .
In the late afternoon of  जुलाई   2  ,  ली   शुभारम्भ   a  heavy assault on the Union left flank , and fierce fighting raged at Little Round Top , the Wheatfield , Devil 's Den , and the Peach  बाग़   .
On the Union right , demonstrations escalated into full-scale assaults on Culp 's Hill and Cemetery Hill .
सब  across the battlefield , despite significant  नुकसान  , the Union defenders held their lines .
On the third day of battle  ,  July 3  ,  fighting resumed  on  Culp 's Hill , and cavalry battles raged  to  the east and south , but the main event was a dramatic infantry  उत्पीड़न  by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge ,  ज्ञात  as Pickett 's  चार्ज  .
The charge was repulsed by Union rifle and artillery fire , at great losses to the Confederate army .
Lee led his army on a  torturous  retreat back to Virginia .
Between 46,000  और  51,000 soldiers from both armies were casualties in the three-day battle .
That November , President Lincoln  प्रयुक्त  the dedication ceremony for  the  Gettysburg  नेशनल  Cemetery to honor the fallen Union soldiers and redefine the purpose of the war in his  ऐतिहासिक  Gettysburg Address .
An academic discipline , or field  of  study , is a branch of knowledge that is taught  और  researched at the college or university level .
Disciplines are defined ( in part ) , and recognized by the academic journals in which research is published , and the learned societies and academic departments or faculties to which their practitioners belong .
However , there exists no formal criteria for when educational programs and scholarly journals form an academic discipline .
A huge difference exists between , on the one hand , well established disciplines that exist in almost  सब  universities all  over  the  संसार  , have a long history , and have a  खूब  established  नियत  of journals and  सम्मेलनों  , and , on the other hand , suggestions for new fields  समर्थित  only by few universities and publications .
फ़ील्ड  of study usually have several sub-disciplines or branches , and the distinguishing lines between these are often both arbitrary and ambiguous .
PHP is  a  server-side scripting  भाषा   designed  for web development but also used as a general-purpose programming language .
PHP is now installed on more than 244 million websites and 2.1 million web servers  .
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995 , the reference implementation of PHP is now produced  by  The PHP Group .
While PHP originally stood for Personal Home Page , it now stands for PHP : Hypertext Preprocessor , a recursive acronym .
PHP  कोड  is interpreted by a  वेब  server with a PHP processor module which generates the resulting web  पेज  : PHP commands can  be  embedded directly into an HTML source document rather than calling an external file to process data .
It has also evolved to include  a  command-line interface capability and can be used in standalone graphical applications .
PHP is free software released under the PHP License , which is incompatible with the  ग्नू  General  पब्लिक  License ( GPL ) due to restrictions on the usage of the term PHP .
PHP can  be  deployed on most  वेब  servers and also as a standalone shell on almost every operating system and platform , free of charge  .
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29  ,  1917 – November 22 , 1963 )  ,  often referred to by his initials JFK  ,  was the 35th President of the United States , serving from 1961 until his death in 1963 .
After military service as commander of  the  Motor Torpedo  नौकाएँ  PT-109  और  PT-59 during World War II in  the  South Pacific  ,  Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional  ज़िला  in the U.S. House  of  Representatives from 1947  to  1953 as  a  Democrat .
Thereafter , he served in the U.S. Senate from 1953 until 1960 .
कैनेडी  defeated Vice President and Republican candidate Richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election .
At 43 years of age , he is  the  youngest to have been elected to the office , the second-youngest President ( after Theodore Roosevelt ) , and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president .
a  Catholic , Kennedy is the only non- Protestant president , and is the only president  to  have won  a  Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency included the  खाड़ी  of  सूअर   आक्रमण  , the  क्यूबन  Missile Crisis , the building of the Berlin Wall , the Space Race , the African-American Civil Rights Movement , and early stages of the Vietnam War .
Therein , Kennedy increased the number of military advisers , special operation forces , and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia .
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the Strategic Hamlet Program which was implemented  by  the South Vietnamese government .
It involved certain forced relocation , village internment , and segregation  of  rural South Vietnamese from the northern and southern communist insurgents .
Kennedy was assassinated on November 22  ,  1963 in Dallas , Texas .
ली  Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime , but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later , before a  विचारण  could take place .
The FBI and the Warren Commission officially concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin .
However  ,  the United States House Select Committee on  assassinations  ( HSCA )  concluded   कि  those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy .
However , ABC News in their investigation , The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy , confirmed the findings of the Warren Commission ; having concluded  ओसवाल्ड  acted  अलोन  .
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber  कार्यक्रम   led  to  a   congressional  investigation  कि  lasted from 1963 to 1970 .
Since the 1960s information concerning  कैनेडी  's private life has come to light .
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled have become  बेहतर  known , especially since  the  1990s .
Although initially  रखा  secret from the  सामान्य   पब्लिक  ,  रिपोर्ट्स  of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press  .
Kennedy ranks highly in public opinion ratings of U.S. presidents .
`` Stand by Me '' is a song originally performed by Ben E. King and written by  किंग  ,  जेरी  Leiber , and  माइक  Stoller , inspired by  the  spiritual `` Lord Stand by Me , '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3 .
There have been over 400 recorded versions of the song .
a  political cartoon from an 1894  पक  magazine by illustrator S.D . Ehrhart , shows  a  farm woman labeled `` Democratic Party '' sheltering from a  बवंडर  of political change .
A  रूपक  is a figure of  वाक  that describes a subject by asserting that  it  is , on some  पाइंट   of  comparison  ,  the same as another otherwise unrelated object .
Metaphor  is  a type of analogy and is  closely  related to other rhetorical  आंकड़े  of speech that achieve  उनके  effects via association , comparison or resemblance  सहित  allegory , hyperbole , and  simile  .
In simpler terms  ,  a metaphor compares two objects or things without using the words `` like '' or `` as '' .
One of the most prominent examples of a metaphor in English literature is the All the world  's  a stage  monologue  from As You  जैसे  It :
All the world 's  a  stage,
और  all the men and women merely players ;
They have their exits and their entrances ;  —  William Shakespeare , As You Like  it  , 2/7
This quote is a metaphor because the world  is  not literally  a  stage .
by  figuratively asserting that the world is a stage , Shakespeare uses the points of comparison between the world and a stage to convey an understanding about the mechanics of the world and  the  lives of the  लोगों  within it  .
Mount Fuji , from the Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji , color woodcut by Katsushika Hokusai
Rembrandt van Rijn ,  self-portrait  , etching , c.1630
Francisco Goya , There is No One To Help Them , Disasters of War series , aquatint  c.1810
Felix Vallotton , La raison  probante  ( The Cogent Reason ) , woodcut from the series Intimités ,  1898
Printmaking is the process of making artworks by printing , normally on paper .
Printmaking normally covers only the  प्रक्रम  of creating prints with  an  element of originality , rather than  बस  being a photographic reproduction  of  a painting .
Except in the case of  monotyping  , the process is  सक्षम   of  producing multiples  of  the same piece  ,  which is called a print .
Each print produced is not considered  a  ``  नक़ल   ''  but rather is considered  an   ``  original '' .
इस  is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic  to  the printmaking process , and also because the imagery of a print is typically not simply a reproduction of another work but rather is  प्रायः  a unique image designed  इससे  the start  to  be expressed in a particular printmaking technique .
A print  may  be known as  an  impression .
Printmaking ( other  than  monotyping ) is  नहीं  chosen  तभी  for  इसके  ability to produce multiple impressions , but rather for the unique qualities  कि  each of the printmaking processes lends itself to .
Prints are created by transferring ink from a matrix or through a prepared screen to a sheet of paper or other material  .
Common types of matrices include : metal plates ,  प्रायः  copper or zinc , or polymer plates for engraving  or  etching ; stone , aluminum , or polymer for lithography ; blocks of wood for woodcuts and wood engravings ; and linoleum  लिये  linocuts .
Screens made of silk or synthetic fabrics  हैं  used for  the  screenprinting process .
Other types  of  matrix substrates and related processes are discussed below .
Multiple impressions printed from the same matrix form an edition .
Since  the  late 19th  सदी  , artists have generally signed individual impressions from an edition and often number the impressions to form a limited edition .
prints  may also  be  printed in book  रूप  , such as illustrated books or artist 's books .
Il Divo is an English multinational operatic pop vocal group created by  म्यूज़िक  manager , executive , and reality TV star Simon Cowell .
Formed  in  the United Kingdom , they are also signed to Cowell 's record label , Syco Music .
Il Divo  is   a  group of four male singers : French pop singer Sébastien Izambard , Spanish  baritone   कार्लोस  Marín , American tenor David Miller , and Swiss  टेनर  Urs Bühler  .
To date , they have sold more than  26  million albums worldwide  .
Su-15 , one  of  the principal Soviet Air Defence  interceptors  in the 1970s and 1980s
An interceptor aircraft ( or  बस  interceptor  )  is a type of  सेनानी   वायुयान  designed specifically to prevent missions of enemy aircraft , particularly bombers  और  reconnaissance aircraft , and  नष्ट  them , relying usually on great speed and powerful armament .
Being used since the First World War  ,  after the late 1960s ,  interceptors  became less important due to shifting  इससे  bombers to intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) for nuclear warfare .
a  Vietnamese American ( ) is an American of Vietnamese descent  .
They make up  परिचय  half of all overseas Vietnamese ( Người Việt Hải Ngoại ) and are the fourth-largest Asian American group .
Mass Vietnamese immigration to the  संयुक्त   राज्य  started after 1975 , after the end  of  the Vietnam War .
Early immigrants were refugee boat people fleeing persecution or  गरीबी  .
Forced to flee  इससे   उनके  homeland and often thrust into poor urban neighborhoods , these  newcomers  have nevertheless managed to establish strong communities in a short amount of time .
More than sixty percent  of  Vietnamese Americans reside in the states of California , Texas , Washington ,  फ्लोरिडा  , and Virginia .
सामने   पेज  of the U.S. Armed  शक्तियां  newspaper , Stars and Stripes ,  2  May 1945
Adolf Hitler committed suicide  by   gunshot  on 30 April 1945 in his Führerbunker in Berlin .
His wife Eva ( née Braun ) committed suicide with him by ingesting cyanide .
That afternoon , in accordance with Hitler 's prior instructions , their remains were carried up the stairs through the bunker 's emergency exit  ,   doused  in petrol and  नियत  alight in the Reich Chancellery garden outside the bunker .
The Soviet archives record that their burnt remains were recovered and interred in successive locations until 1970 when they were again exhumed , cremated and the ashes scattered .
Accounts differ as to the cause of death ;  एक  that he died by poison  तभी  and another that he died by a self-inflicted gunshot , while biting down on a cyanide capsule .
समकालीन  historians  have  rejected these accounts  as  being either Soviet propaganda or an attempted compromise in order to reconcile the different conclusions .
One eye-witness  अंकित  that  the   देह  showed signs  of  having been shot through the mouth , but this  रै  been proven unlikely  .
There is also controversy regarding the authenticity of skull and jaw  fragments  which were recovered .
In 2009 , DNA tests  यहूद  performed  on  a skull Soviet officials had long believed  to  be Hitler  's  .
The  परीक्षण  revealed  कि  the skull was actually that  of  a woman less than 40 years old .
Location of Missouri
The alcohol laws of Missouri  हैं  among the least restrictive and most lax and permissive in the United  राज्य  .
Missouri  is  known throughout the  मिडवेस्ट  for its largely laissez-faire approach to alcohol regulation , in sharp contrast to the  बहुत  strict alcohol laws of some of its neighbors , like Kansas and Oklahoma .
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF ,  commonly  known as flesh-eating disease or  flesh-eating  bacteria syndrome ,  is  a rare  संक्रमण  of the deeper layers  of  skin and subcutaneous tissues ,  easily  spreading  आरपार  the fascial plane within the subcutaneous  ऊतक  .
Necrotizing fasciitis is quickly progressing  ,  having  वृहद  risk of developing in the immunocompromised due to conditions like diabetes , cancer , etc .
It is a severe disease of sudden  onset  and  is  usually  treated  immediately with high doses of intravenous antibiotics .
Type I describes a polymicrobial infection , whereas Type II describes a monomicrobial infection .
Many  प्रकार   of  bacteria can  कारण  necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g. , Group A streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes ) , Staphylococcus  aureus   ,  Clostridium perfringens , Bacteroides fragilis , Aeromonas hydrophila ) .
Such infections are more likely to occur in people with compromised immune systems .
Historically , Group A streptococcus made up most cases of  प्रकार  II infections .
However , since as early as 2001 , another  गंभीर  form  of  monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis has  महरूम  observed with increasing frequency ,  caused  by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) .
Some  प्रकाशित  case reports  have  implied a possible link between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and NF ,  हालांकि  the  प्रमाण  of the link was said to be  कमजोर  because of a small number of case patients and it  थी  unclear whether the drugs just masked  the  symptoms of a secondary infection or were a cause per se .
World War II ( WWII or WW2 ) , also known as the Second World War , was a global  युद्ध  that lasted from 1939 to 1945 .
It involved the  विशाल  majority of the world 's nations —including all of  the  great powers  —eventually   forming  two opposing military alliances : the  allies  and the  अक्ष  .
It was the most  फैली  war  in  history , with more than 100  लाख  people serving in military units from over 30 different countries  .
In a state of `` total war `` , the major participants placed their entire economic , industrial , and scientific  सामर्थ्य  at the service of the war effort , erasing the distinction between  civilian  and military resources .
Marked  by  mass deaths of civilians , including the Holocaust and the only use of nuclear weapons in  warfare  , it resulted in  50  million to  over  75 million  fatalities   .
These deaths make World War  ii  by far the deadliest  विरोध  in human history .
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and was already at war with the Republic of China in 1937 , but  the  world war is generally said to have  begun  on 1 September 1939 with  the  invasion of  कैंडल  by Germany and subsequent declarations of war  on  Germany by France and Britain .
इससे  late  1939  to early 1941 , in a  श्रेणी  of campaigns and treaties , Germany formed the Axis alliance with Italy  ,  conquering or subduing much of continental Europe .
Following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact , Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned  और  annexed territories between themselves of their European neighbours ,  सहित  Poland .
The United Kingdom and the other members  of  the British Commonwealth were  the  only major Allied forces continuing the fight against the Axis , with battles taking place in North Africa as well as the long-running Battle of  the  Atlantic .
in  June 1941 , the European Axis launched an invasion  of  the Soviet Union  ,  giving a start to the largest land theatre of war in history , which tied down the major part of the Axis ' military  शक्तियां  for  the  rest of the war .
In December 1941 , Japan joined the Axis , attacked the United States and  यूरोपीय  territories in the Pacific Ocean , and quickly conquered much of the Western Pacific .
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942 , after Japan lost a series of naval battles and European Axis troops were defeated in North Africa and , decisively , at  stalingrad  .
In 1943  ,   साथ  a series of German defeats  in  Eastern Europe  ,  the Allied invasion of Italy , and American victories in the Pacific , the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts .
In 1944 , the Western Allies invaded France , while the Soviet Union regained all of its territorial losses and invaded Germany and its allies .
During 1944 and 1945 the United States defeated the Japanese Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands .
The war in Europe ended with  the  capture  of  Berlin by  सोवियत  and Polish troops  और  the subsequent German unconditional surrender on 8 May  1945  .
Following  the  Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945  ,  the United States dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of  हिरोशिमा  on 6  अगस्त  , and Nagasaki on 9 August .
With an  आक्रमण  of the Japanese archipelago imminent , and the Soviet Union having declared war on Japan by invading Manchuria , Japan surrendered on  15  August 1945 , ending the war  in  Asia and cementing the total  विजय  of the Allies over the Axis .
World War II altered the political alignment  और  social structure of the world .
The United Nations ( UN  )  was established to foster international  सहयोग  and prevent future conflicts .
The great powers that were the victors of the war—the United States , the Soviet Union , China  ,  the United Kingdom , and France—became the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council  .
the  Soviet Union and the  संयुक्त  States  उभरा  as rival superpowers , setting the stage for the Cold War , which  lasted  for the next 46 years .
Meanwhile ,  the  influence of European great powers started to decline , while the decolonisation of Asia and Africa began .
Most countries whose industries had been damaged moved  towards  economic  रिकवरी  .
Political integration , especially in Europe , emerged as an effort to stabilise postwar relations and fight more effectively in the Cold War .
A limited liability company ( LLC  )  is a flexible form of enterprise that blends elements of partnership and corporate structures .
नोट  than an LLC is  नहीं  a corporation , and  कॉलिंग   an  LLC a  निगम  is technically incorrect .
An LLC is a  विधिक   रूप  of company  कि  provides limited liability to its owners in  the  vast majority of United States jurisdictions .
LLCs do not need  to  be organized for profit .
Five K-Cups
The inside of a used K-Cup , with the  शीर्ष  foil and the used coffee grounds removed .
This shows the filter inside the K-Cup .
K-Cup portion packs are used with Keurig or other single cup brewing  प्रणालियों  to brew a cup of coffee , tea , or hot chocolate .
Each K-Cup is a  प्लास्टिक  container with a coffee filter inside .
मैदान  coffee beans are packed in the K-Cup and sealed air-tight with a combination plastic and foil lid  .
When  the  K-Cup is  लगाई  in a Keurig brewer , the brewer punctures the foil lid  और  the bottom of the K-Cup and forces hot water under pressure through the K-Cup  और  into a  मग  .
keurig  licenses its K-Cup technology to coffee roasters and tea makers such as Green Mountain  कॉफी  Roasters , Diedrich/ Gloria  जीन्स  , Timothy 's World Coffee , Van Houtte , Caribou Coffee , Celestial Seasonings ,  bigelow  Tea Company , Twinings , Tully 's , Coffee People and Newman  's  Own .
Keurig 's  patents  on the original K-Cup design expired in September  2012  .
Keurig holds at least one additional , still-active US patent and another patent  अनुप्रयोग  , detailing improvements that  have  subsequently been  incorporated  in their K-Cup  डिज़ाइन  .
Electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca . 1890s ) manufactured by the Gallet Watch Company in La Chaux-de-Fonds , Switzerland .
Gallet MultiChron Astronomic ( ca  .  1959 ) —complex  mechanical  chronograph with 12 hour recoding capabilities , automatic day , date , month , and moon phase display
A modern  seiko  quartz wristwatch using the chronograph function ( movement 7T92 ) .
Citizen Atessa Eco-Drive ATV53-3023 analog-digital chronograph with 4 area  रेडियो  Controlled reception (  उत्तर  America , Europe , China ,  जापानी  ) .
A chronograph is a specific type of watch that is used as a stopwatch combined with a display watch .
A  मौलिक  chronograph has  an  independent  स्वीप  second hand ; it can be started  ,  stopped , and returned  to   शून्य  by successive pressure on the stem .
लुई  Moinet invented  the  chronograph in 1816
Conventional PCI  (  PCI is  an  initialism formed  इससे  Peripheral Component Interconnect , part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer  बस   लिये  attaching  हार्डवेयर  devices in a computer .
The PCI bus supports the functions found on  a  processor bus , but  in  a standardized format that is independent of any particular processor .
Devices connected to the bus  appear  to  the  processor to be connected directly to the  प्रोसेसर  bus , and are assigned addresses in the processor  's   पता  space .
Attached devices can  लो  either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself , called a planar device in the PCI specification  ,  or an expansion card that fits into a slot .
The PCI Local Bus  थी  first implemented in  ibm  PC compatibles , where it displaced the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus  as  the bus configuration .
It has subsequently been adopted  लिये  other computer types .
PCI and PCI-X are being  replaced  by PCI Express , but , most  motherboards   हैं  still made with one or  अधिक  PCI slots , which are sufficient for many uses .
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the  बस  ( including the size and spacing of the circuit board edge electrical contacts ) , electrical characteristics , bus  समय  , and protocols .
The specification can be purchased from the PCI Special Interest Group (  pci-sig  ) .
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include  :  network cards ,  ध्वनि  cards , modems , extra ports such as USB  or  serial , TV tuner  ताश  and disk controllers .
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards , until growing bandwidth requirements outgrew  the  capabilities of PCI ;  the  preferred interface for video cards became AGP , and then PCI Express .
PCI  वीडियो  cards  remain  available for use with old PCs without AGP or PCI Express slots .
Many devices  previously  provided on PCI expansion  ताश   हैं  now commonly integrated onto motherboards or available in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions  .
माइकल  Whitaker Smith  (  born October 7  ,  1957 ) is an  अमरीकी   समकालीन  Christian musician , who has charted primarily in the contemporary Christian and occasionally in the mainstream charts .
His biggest success in mainstream music was in 1991 when ``  प्लेस  in this World '' hit No . 6 on the Billboard Hot 100 .
स्मिथ  is  a  three-time Grammy Award winner , and  रै   अर्जित  40 Dove Awards .
Over the course of  उसके  career , he  बेची  more than 13 million albums and recorded 29 No . 1 Hit  गीतों  , fourteen gold albums , and five platinum albums .
Smith is an American Music Award recipient ; he was also named one of People magazine  's  `` Most Beautiful  लोगों  '' .
An American poster from the World War II -era that was used to  inform  people about what  वे  should do if they suspect sabotage  .
तोड़फोड़  is a deliberate action aimed at weakening another entity through subversion , obstruction , disruption  ,  or  विनाश  .
In a workplace setting , sabotage is the conscious withdrawal of efficiency generally directed at causing some change in  कार्यस्थल  conditions .
One who engages in sabotage is a saboteur .
As a  नियम  , saboteurs try to conceal  उनके  identities because of the consequences of their actions .
For  उदाहरण  , whereas an environmental pressure group might be  प्रसन्न  to  be  identified with  an  act of sabotage , it would not want the individual identities of the perpetrators known .
Patrick Henry College ( PHC ) is a  निजी  , independent college  साथ  an Evangelical Christian basis that focuses on teaching classical liberal arts and government , located in Purcellville , Virginia , United States .
Patrick  हेनरी  is known for its conservative evangelical  ईसाई  focus .
As  of  April 17 , 2007 , the  कॉलेज  was accredited by the  transnational   संघ  of Christian Colleges and Schools , a national  faith-related  accrediting organization recognized  by  the Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation .
The school was founded with the help of the Home School Legal Defense Association , and now  serves  as the headquarters for the organization , with which it is still closely connected .
The history of television comprises the work of numerous engineers and inventors in several countries over many decades  .
The earliest proposal was in 1908 ,  in   a  paper by A . A. Campbell-Swinton and postulated the  उपयोग  of cathode rays .
The first practical demonstrations of television , however , were developed using electromechanical methods to scan , transmit , and reproduce an image .
As  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  camera and display tubes were perfected ,  electromechanical  television gave way  to  all-electronic systems in nearly all applications .
L'Idéal Cinéma - Jacques Tati at Aniche opened November  23rd  1905 ; the oldest still-active movie theater in the world
A cinema in Australia
A typical multiplex ( AMC Promenade 16  in  Woodland Hills , Los Angeles , U.S.  )
A movie theater ( also called a cinema , movie house , film house , film theater or picture house ) is  a  venue , usually a building ,  लिये  viewing films .
Most but not all movie theaters are commercial operations catering to the  सामान्य  public , who attend by purchasing a ticket .
The movie is projected with a movie projector onto  a  large projection screen at the front of the auditorium .
Most movie theaters  हैं  now equipped for digital cinema projection , removing the need to create and transport a physical film print  .
Southern California Norton Owner 's Club on California State Route 41 , near Creston .
A motorcycle club is a group of individuals whose  प्राथमिक  interest and activities involve motorcycles .
Lyme disease , Lyme  borreliosis  is an infectious disease caused by at least three species of bacteria belonging to the genus  borrelia  .
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main cause of Lyme disease in North  अमेरिका  , whereas Borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii cause most European  मामले  .
The disease is  नामित  after the towns of Lyme and Old Lyme , Connecticut , USA  ,  where a number of cases were identified in  1975  .
Although Allen Steere realized that Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease in 1978 , the  कारण  of the disease remained a mystery until 1981 , when B. burgdorferi was identified by  विली  Burgdorfer .
Lyme disease is the  सबसे  common tick-borne disease in the Northern Hemisphere .
Borrelia is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected ticks  belonging  to  a  few species of the genus Ixodes ( `` hard ticks ''  )  .
Early symptoms may include fever , headache , fatigue , depression , and  a  characteristic circular skin rash called erythema migrans ( EM ) .
Left untreated , later symptoms may involve  the  joints , heart , and central nervous system .
In most cases , the infection and its symptoms are eliminated by antibiotics ,  विशेषकर  if the illness is treated early .
Delayed or inadequate treatment can lead to more serious symptoms , which can be disabling and difficult to treat .
Penises of minke whales on display at the  आइसलैंडिक   phallological  Museum
Penis  (  plural penises or penes )  is   a  general term for the organs with which male and hermaphrodite animals introduce sperm into receptive females  दौरान   copulation   .
Such organs occur in many animals , both vertebrate and invertebrate , but males do not bear  a  penis in every animal species , and  in  those species in which the male does  भालू  a  so-called  penis , the penes in the various species are not necessarily homologous .
For example , the penis of a mammal is at most analogous to the penis of a male insect or barnacle .
The term penis applies to many reproductive intromittent organs ,  लकिन  not to all ; for example the intromittent organ of most cephalopoda is  the   hectocotylus  ,  a  specialised arm , and male spiders use their pedipalps .
In most species of  पशु  in which there is an organ that might  reasonably  be described as a penis  ,  it has no major function  अन्य  than intromission , or at least conveying the sperm to the female , but in the  placental  mammals the penis  bears   the  distal part  of  the urethra , which discharges both urine during urination and semen  दौरान  copulation as the occasion requires .
कलाकारों  and repertoire (  a  & R ) is the division of a record label or music publishing company that is responsible for talent scouting and overseeing the artistic development of  रिकॉर्डिंग  artists and/or songwriters .
it  also acts as a liaison between artists and  the  record label or publishing company ; every activity involving artists to the point  of  album release is generally considered under the purview of , and responsibility of , A &  r  .
a  furlong is a measure of distance in imperial units and U.S. customary  इकाई  equal to one-eighth of a mile  ,  equivalent to  220  yards , 660 feet , 40 rods , or 10  जंजीरों  .
the  exact value of the furlong varies slightly among English-speaking  देशों  .
Five furlongs are approximately 1 kilometre ( 1.0058 km is a closer approximation ) .
Since the original definition of the metre was  one-quarter  of one ten-millionth of the circumference of the Earth ( along the great circle coincident with the meridian of longitude  गुजर  through Paris )  ,  the circumference  of  the Earth is about  40,000  km or  परिचय  200,000 furlongs .
CR2032 lithium button cell battery
लिथियम  9 volt ,  aa  ,  &  AAA sizes
Lithium batteries are  डिस्पोजेबल  ( primary ) batteries that have lithium metal or lithium  यौगिकों  as an anode .
They  स्टैंड  apart from other  बैटरी  in their high charge density ( long life ) and high cost per unit .
Depending on the design and  रासायनिक  compounds used , lithium cells can produce voltages  इससे  1.5 V ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or alkaline battery  )  to about 3.7 V. Lithium batteries are  widely  used  in  products such as  पोर्टेबल  consumer  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  devices  .
Raymond  ``  Ray '' Charles Jack LaMontagne ( ; born  जून  18 , 1973 ) is  an  American singer-songwriter  .
LaMontagne has released four studio albums , Trouble , Till the Sun Turns Black , Gossip in the Grain and God Willin '  &  the  क्रीक  Do n't Rise .
He was born in New Hampshire and was inspired to create music after hearing an album  by  Stephen Stills .
Critics have compared LaMontagne 's music to that of The Band , Van Morrison , Nick Drake , and Tim Buckley .
he  lives in Massachusetts with his wife and two children .
When the Wind Blows is a novel by James Patterson .
It  is  the precursor to The  झील  House and  प्रेरित  the Maximum Ride series .
The novel is currently set to be adapted into a movie .
The Pittsburgh Steelers were founded  in  1933 .
Over the course  of  the team 's history , the  टोली  has had several logos while  wearing  virtually the  वही  uniforms over the years , with subtle changes made to  दे  the uniforms an updated look .
The team colors , uniforms ,  और  logo are often ranked as being among  the   बेहतरीन   in  the NFL .
Facebook on the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook  is  an online social networking service , whose name stems  इससे   the  colloquial name for  the  book given to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students  मिलेंगी  to know each other .
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes .
The website 's membership was initially limited by the  संस्थापकों  to Harvard students , but was expanded to other colleges in the Boston area  ,  the Ivy League , and Stanford University .
It  धीरे  added support for students at various  अन्य   विश्वविद्यालयों  before  खोलने  to high school students  ,  and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over .
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at least 13 years old to become registered users of the site .
Users must register before  using  the site , after which they may create a personal profile , add other users as friends , and exchange messages  ,  including automatic notifications when they update their profile  .
additionally   ,   उपयोक्ता  may join common-interest user groups  ,  organized by workplace , school or college , or other characteristics , and categorize  उनके  friends into lists such as  ``  People From Work '' or `` Close Friends '' .
As of September 2012 , Facebook has over one billion active users .
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey , there are 7.5 million children  अंतर्गत   13  with accounts and 5 million under 10 , violating the site  's  terms of service .
In May  2005  , Accel partners invested $  12.7  million in Facebook , and Jim Breyer added $ 1  लाख  of his  अपना  money to the pot .
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the  सबसे  used social networking  सेवा  by worldwide monthly active users  .
Entertainment Weekly included  the  site on  इसके  end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list , saying ,  ``  How on earth did we  stalk  our exes , remember our co-workers ' birthdays  ,  bug our friends , and play a rousing game of  scrabulous  before Facebook ? ''
Critics , such as  फेसबुक  Detox  ,  state that Facebook  रै  turned into a national obsession in the  संयुक्त  States , resulting in vast amounts  of  time lost and  प्रोत्साहित  narcissism .
Quantcast estimates  फेसबुक  has 138.9 million monthly unique U.S. visitors  in  May 2011 .
According to Social Media Today , in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. population had a Facebook account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market growth started to stall in some regions , with the site losing 7 million active users in the United States and Canada  in  May 2011 .
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering  on  February 1 , 2012 ,  और  was  headquartered  in Menlo Park , California .
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the public and trading on the NASDAQ  on  May 18 ,  2012  .
Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel ( 15 November 1891 – 14 October 1944 ) , popularly  ज्ञात   as  The Desert Fox ( Wüstenfuchs , ) , was a German Field Marshal of World War II .
He earned  the  respect of both his own troops and the enemies he fought .
ख़बरों   थी  a  अत्यधिक  decorated  अधिकारी  in World War I and was awarded the  डालना  le Mérite for his exploits on the Italian front .
In World  युद्ध  II , he further distinguished himself as the  कमांडर  of the 7th Panzer Division during the 1940  आक्रमण  of France .
His leadership of German and Italian forces in the North African campaign established  उसे  as one of the most able commanders of the war , and earned him the appellation of the Desert Fox .
he  is regarded as one of the most skilled commanders of desert warfare in the conflict .
He later commanded the German forces opposing  the  Allied cross-channel invasion in Normandy .
His assignments never took him to the Eastern Front .
Rommel is regarded as having been a humane and professional officer .
His  afrika  Korps was never accused of war crimes , and soldiers captured  दौरान  his Africa  अभियान  were reported to have been treated humanely .
आदेश  to kill Jewish  सैनिको  , civilians  और  captured commandos were ignored .
लेट   in  the war , Rommel was linked to the conspiracy to assassinate Adolf Hitler .
Since  ख़बरों  was a national hero , Hitler desired to  eliminate  him quietly .
He  मजबूर  Rommel to commit  आत्महत्या  with a cyanide pill , in return for assurances that Rommel  's  family  होता  not  be  persecuted following his death .
Stained glass representation of the Holy Spirit as a dove  ,  c. 1660  .
The seven gifts of the  पावन  Spirit  is  an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts originating with patristic authors , later elaborated by five intellectual virtues  और  four other groups of ethical characteristics .
They are : wisdom , understanding , wonder and awe ( fear of the Lord ) , counsel , knowledge , fortitude , and piety ( reverence ) .
The Earth Day  ध्वज  , the latest proposal of John McConnell for  a  flag of Earth Day
Earth  दिन  is  an  annual event , celebrated on April 22 , on which events are held  विश्वव्यापी  to demonstrate support for environmental protection .
It  थी  first celebrated in 1970 , and is now coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network , and celebrated in more than 192 countries each year .
In 1969 at a UNESCO Conference in San Francisco , the date proposed was March 21 ,  1970   ,  the first day of spring in the northern hemisphere .
This  दिन  of nature 's equipoise was  बाद  sanctioned  in  a  उदघोषणा  signed by Secretary General U Thant at the United Nations .
A month later a separate Earth Day  थी  founded by United States Senator Gaylord  नेल्सन  as an environmental teach-in  पहला  held on April  22   ,  1970 .
Nelson  थी  later awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom  पुरस्कार  in recognition of his  कार्य  .
While this April 22 Earth Day was focused on  the  United States , an organization launched by Denis Hayes , who was the original national coordinator in 1970 ,  took  it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations .
Numerous communities celebrate Earth Week , an  संपूर्ण  week of activities focused on environmental issues .
Iodine is a chemical element with symbol I and atomic number 53 .
The name is from  यूनानी  ioeidēs , meaning violet or purple  ,  due to the color of elemental iodine vapor .
Iodine and its compounds are  primarily  used in nutrition , and industrially in the production of acetic acid  और  certain polymers .
Iodine 's relatively high atomic number , low  toxicity  , and ease of attachment to organic compounds have made it a part of many X-ray contrast materials in modern medicine .
Iodine has only one stable  समस्थानिक  .
A number of iodine radioisotopes are also used in medical applications .
Iodine is  मिला  on Earth mainly as  the  highly water-soluble iodide ion , I− , which concentrates it in oceans and brine pools .
Like the other halogens , free iodine occurs mainly as a diatomic molecule  i2  , and then only momentarily after being oxidized from iodide by an oxidant like free oxygen .
In the universe and on Earth ,  आयोडीन  's high atomic number makes it  a  relatively rare element .
However  ,  its presence in ocean water has given  it  a role in biology .
It is the heaviest  अनिवार्य  element utilized widely by life in biological functions ( only tungsten , employed in enzymes by a few species  of  bacteria , is heavier ) .
Iodine  's   rarity  in many soils , due to initial low abundance as a crust-element  ,  and also  leaching  of  घुलनशील  iodide by rainwater , has led to many deficiency problems in land animals and inland human populations .
Iodine deficiency affects about two billion  लोगों  and is the leading  preventable  cause of intellectual disabilities .
Iodine is required  by  higher animals , which use it  to   synthesize  thyroid hormones , which contain the element .
Because of this function , radioisotopes of iodine are concentrated in the thyroid gland along with  nonradioactive   आयोडीन  .
If inhaled , the radioisotope iodine-131 , which has a high fission product yield ,  concentrates  in the thyroid , but is easily remedied with potassium iodide treatment .
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is the act of attempting to influence decisions  बना  by officials in the government , most often legislators or members of regulatory  एजेंसियों  .
Lobbying is done by many different types of people and organized groups , including individuals in the private sector , corporations , fellow legislators or government officials , or advocacy groups ( interest groups ) .
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies , meaning a voter or  bloc  of voters within his  or   उसके  electoral district , or  नहीं  ; they may engage in lobbying as a business ,  or   नहीं  .
Professional lobbyists are people whose business is trying to influence  विधान  on behalf of a group or individual who hires them .
Individuals and nonprofit organizations can also lobby as an act of volunteering or as a small  भाग  of their normal job ( for instance , a CEO meeting  साथ  a representative about a project important to his/her company , or  an  activist meeting with his/her legislator in an unpaid capacity ) .
Governments often define and regulate organized group lobbying that has become influential .
The ethics  और  morality of lobbying are .
Lobbying  is   प्रायः  spoken of with contempt , when the implication is that people with inordinate  socioeconomic  power  हैं  corrupting the law ( twisting it away from fairness ) in order to serve their own  विरोध  of interest .
लकिन  another side of lobbying is making sure  कि  others ' interests  हैं  duly defended against others ' corruption  ,   or  even simply  बनाना  sure that minority interests are fairly defended against mere  जुल्म  of the majority .
For example , a medical  संघ  , or a trade association of health  बीमे  companies , may lobby a legislature in order  to  counteract the influence  of  tobacco companies , in which case the lobbying would be viewed by most people  as  justified ( duly defending against others ' corruption ) .
The difficulty in  आरेखण  objective lines between which lobbyists are `` good lobbyists '' and  जिससे  ones are `` bad ones '' is compounded by the cleverness with which lobbyists or their clients can argue that  उनके  own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind .
At heart ,  the  effort to influence legislation is a power  संघर्ष  .
As in other forms of power struggle , such as war or law enforcement  ,  motives range from  to  self-defense to fighting  लिये   इंसाफ  , and the dividing line between predation and justice is subject to rationalization .
सनशाइन  of your love guitar riff
मलाई  were a 1960s British rock supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist Jack Bruce , guitarist/vocalist Eric Clapton , and drummer Ginger Baker .
Their sound was characterised by a hybrid of blues rock  ,  hard rock and psychedelic rock , combining the psychedelia-themed  गीत   ,  Eric Clapton 's blues guitar playing and vocals ,  जोकर  Bruce 's voice and prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming  .
The group 's third album , Wheels of Fire , was the world 's first platinum-selling double album .
Cream are widely regarded as  होने  the world 's first successful supergroup  .
In their  करियर  , they sold over 15  लाख  albums worldwide .
Cream 's  म्यूज़िक  included songs based on traditional blues such as `` Crossroads `` and `` Spoonful `` , and modern blues such as ``  born  Under a Bad Sign `` , as well as more eccentric songs such as `` Strange Brew `` , `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` Toad `` .
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I Feel Free `` ( UK , number 11 ) ,  ``  Sunshine of Your Love `` ( US ,  क्रमांक  5 ) , `` White Room `` ( US , number 6 ) , `` Crossroads '' ( US  ,  number 28 ) , and `` Badge ``  (  UK , number 18 ) .
Cream made  a  significant impact on the popular music of the time , and , along with Jimi Hendrix ,  और  Terry Kath  of  Chicago  ,  popularised the use  of  the wah-wah pedal .
They provided a heavy yet technically proficient  musical  theme that foreshadowed and influenced the  emergence   of  British  bands  such  as  The  जेफ़  Beck Group in the late 1960s .
The band 's live performances influenced progressive rock acts such as Rush .
Cream were  inducted  into the Rock and  फेंकें  Hall  of  Fame  in  1993 .
They were included in both Rolling  स्टोन  and VH1 's lists of the `` 100 Greatest Artists of All Time  ''  .
They were also ranked number 16  on  VH1 's `` 100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock '' .
Hairspray is a 1988 comedy film written and directed by John Waters , and starring Ricki Lake , Sonny Bono , Debbie Harry , Michael St. Gerard , Shawn Thompson , Colleen Fitzpatrick , Jerry Stiller ,  और  in his last film role , Divine .
Hairspray  थी  a dramatic departure from Waters ' earlier works , with a much broader intended audience .
In fact  ,   hairsprays  PG is the mildest rating a Waters  फिल्मी  has received ; most of his  पिछला  films  यहूद  rated X by the MPAA  .
Set in 1962 Baltimore , Maryland ,  the   फिल्मी  revolves around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' teenager Tracy Turnblad as she pursues stardom as a dancer on a local TV show and rallies against racial  पृथक्करण  .
hairspray  was only a moderate success upon its initial theatrical release , earning a modest gross of $ 8 million .
However , it managed to attract a larger audience on home video in the early 1990s and became a cult classic  .
Most critics praised the  फिल्मी  , although  कुछ   यहूद  displeased with the  overall  campiness .
In 2002  ,  the film was adapted into a Broadway  musical  of the same name  ,  which won eight Tony Awards , including Best Musical in 2003  .
A second film version of Hairspray , an adaptation of the stage musical ,  थी  also released  by  New Line Cinema in 2007 , which included  अनेक  changes of scripted items from the original .
The film  भी  ranks # 444 on Empire magazine 's 2008  सूची  of the 500 greatest movies of all  समय  .
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body under a common name ,  ढांचा   ,  and doctrine within  christianity  .
कुछ  groups included do not consider  themselves   a  denomination  (   e.g.  , the  कैथोलिक  Church considers itself the one true church and the  अपोस्टोलिक  See , and  as  pre-denominational ) .
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being called  a  denomination and do not have any formal denominational structure , authority , or record-keeping beyond the local congregation ; several groups within Restoration Movement fall into this category .
Some  समूह  are large ( e.g  .   catholics  , Lutherans , Anglicans or Baptists  )  , while others are just  a  few small churches , and  in  most cases the relative size is not evident in this  सूची  .
Modern movements such as  fundamentalist  Christianity , Pietism , Evangelicalism ,  pentecostalism  and the Holiness movement sometimes cross denominational lines , or  in  some cases create new denominations out of  दो  or more continuing groups , ( as is the case  लिये  many United and uniting churches , for example ) .
Such subtleties and complexities are not clearly depicted here .
Major divisions  भीतर  Christianity  .
नोट  : This is not a complete list , but aims to  provide  a  comprehensible  overview of the diversity among denominations of Christianity .
As there are reported to  be   लगभग  41,000 Christian denominations , many  of  which can not be verified  to  be significant , only those denominations with Wikipedia articles will be  सूचीबद्ध  in order to ensure that all entries on this list are notable and verifiable .
Between denominations , theologians , and comparative  religionists  there are considerable disagreements about which groups can be properly called Christian , disagreements arising primarily from doctrinal differences between groups .
For  the  purpose  of  simplicity , this list is intended to reflect the self-understanding of each denomination .
Explanations of different opinions concerning their status as Christian denominations  can  be found at their respective articles .
There is no official recognition in most parts  of  the world for religious  लाशें  , and there is no official clearinghouse which could determine the status or respectability of religious bodies .
Often  वहीँ  is considerable disagreement between various churches about whether  अन्य  churches should be labeled with pejorative  शर्तें  such as `` cult '' , or about whether this or  कि   समूह  enjoys  कुछ  measure of respectability .
Such considerations often vary from place to place , where one religious  समूह   may  enjoy majority  औकात  in one region , but be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult  ''  in another part of the world  .
Inclusion on this list does not indicate any judgment about the  आकार  , importance , or character of a group  or  its members .
1804  map of `` Louisiana `` , edged on  the  west by the Rocky Mountains .
The Louisiana Purchase  (  `` Sale of  louisiana  '' ) was the acquisition by  the  United States  of  America in  1803  of of France 's claim to the  territory  of Louisiana .
the  U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11  ,250,000  ) plus  रद्दीकरण  of debts worth 18 million francs ( $ 3,750,000 ) , for a total sum of 15 million dollars ( less  than  3 cents per acre ) for the Louisiana territory ( $ million in dollars , less than 42 cents per acre ) .
The Louisiana territory encompassed all or part of 15 present  u.S.  states and two Canadian provinces .
The land purchased contained all of present-day Arkansas , Missouri , Iowa , Oklahoma , Kansas , and Nebraska ; parts of Minnesota that were west of the Mississippi River ;  सबसे  of North Dakota ; most of  दक्षिण  Dakota ; northeastern New Mexico ; northern Texas ; the portions of Montana , Wyoming , and Colorado east of the Continental Divide ;  louisiana  west of the Mississippi River , including the city  of   नई   ऑरलियन्स  ; and small portions of land  कि  would eventually  become  part  of  the Canadian provinces of Alberta and  saskatchewan  .
France controlled this vast area from 1699 until 1762 , the year it gave the  territory  to its  ally  Spain .
Under Napoleon Bonaparte , France took back the territory in 1800 in the hope of building an empire in North  अमेरिका  .
A slave revolt in Haiti and an impending war with Britain ,  however  , led France to abandon these plans and sell  the  entire  territory  to the United States  ,  who had originally intended only to seek  the  purchase of  नई  Orleans and its adjacent lands .
the  purchase of  the  territory of Louisiana took place during the presidency of Thomas Jefferson .
At the time , the purchase faced domestic opposition  क्युकी  it  थी  thought to be unconstitutional  .
Although he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did not contain provisions for acquiring territory , Jefferson decided to go ahead with the purchase anyway in  अनुक्रम  to remove France 's presence in the region and to protect  दोनो  U.S. trade access to the  बंदरगाहों  of New Orleans and free passage on  the  Mississippi River .
Ceremony at  प्लेस  d'Armes , New Orleans  अंकन  transfer  of  Louisiana to the United States , 10 March 1804 , as depicted by Thure de  thulstrup  .
`` Cool Jerk '' is a popular song written by Donald Storball and originally performed by The Capitols .
Released in 1966 , it reached No . 2 on the American R & B chart and No . 7 on the pop chart .
The backing track for this song was actually recorded ( secretly ) by the Motown house band The Funk Brothers  .
Per one of the Funk Brothers ,  the  song was  originally  to be called `` Pimp Jerk  .  ''
This was  लिया  from watching  पड़ोस   pimps  , who would dance in the clubs , but  यहूद  too ``  कूल  '' to do the  झटका  like regular folks .
Their version was subsequently named `` the Pimp Jerk . ''
The producer was  भयभीत   कि  a song  साथ  the word pimp in the title would be banned or not receive much  धनात्मक  attention , and had the title changed  to   इसके  current form .
the   go-go  's , Todd Rundgren , Big  ट्रबल  , Human Sexual Response ,  the  La De  da  's , The Creation , and  the  Coasters  have   covered  the song .
Todd Rundgren did his version  in  an odd time signature ( 7/4 ) , giving an obviously jerky feel to the song .
The Go-Go 's covered the song for their 1982 album Vacation and later re-recorded it for their 1990 album Greatest .
In the feature film Home Alone 2 : Lost in New York , Uncle Frank ( Gerry Bamman ) sings `` Cool  झटका   ''  in the shower .
A version of the song  साथ  different lyrics ( `` Do the Cool Whip '' ) is used in Cool Whip commercials .
A recording of `` Cool Jerk  ''  by Ricardo Ray is  प्रदर्शित  in the feature film  donnie  Brasco ( 1997 ) .
The song features in the film Standing in the Shadows of Motown , performed by the Funk Brothers with lead vocals  by  Bootsy Collins .
The song is heard briefly in the animated feature , Madagascar 3 : Europe 's Most Wanted  .
Despite this reason ,  it  is listed in some variations of  the  film 's soundtrack .
A league is a unit of length ( or , rarely , area ) .
it  was  long  common in Europe and Latin America , but it is no longer an  आधिकारिक  unit in any nation .
The  लीग  originally referred to the  अलहदा  a person could walk in an hour .
Since the Middle Ages , many values have been specified in several countries .
in  the context of  nautical  distances , the 3 mile ( 4.8 km ) distance corresponds to how far an observer of average height (  5'9  '' or 1.78 m ) can see when standing at sea level .
Thus , a ship traveling one `` league '' has reached what was previously the  farthest  visible  अलहदा  on the  क्षितिज  .
The lack of a historical and  वैश्विक  standard for the exact measure of a `` league '' can  be  accounted for by the variable elevation of the observer ( i.e. , sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ) .
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the  आयरिश  Free State , a  डोमिनियन  of  the  British Commonwealth ,  having  seceded from the United Kingdom  अंतर्गत  the Anglo-Irish Treaty .
it  comprises 26 of Ireland 's 32 counties .
Since 1949 it has existed as the Republic  of  Ireland  .
From its foundation , the Irish Free State was  embroiled  in a civil war between nationalists supporting the Treaty  और  opponents who supported a republic .
The  pro-treaty  side , organised as Cumann na nGaedheal emerged victorious  इससे  the conflict and won subsequent elections .
They formed the government of the state until 1932 , when they peacefully handed over power to the anti-Treaty faction in Fianna Fáil , who defeated them in an election .
The Irish state , despite  इसके  violent beginnings , has remained a liberal democracy throughout its existence .
A  नई  constitution in 1937  removed  many of the links with Britain  स्थापित  under the Treaty and Ireland 's neutrality in the Second World War demonstrated its independence in foreign policy matters from Britain .
In 1948 Ireland formally left the British Commonwealth and adopted the title of  ``  Republic ''  .
In the economic sphere , the Irish state has had  a  mixed performance .
On independence , it was one of the wealthier countries in Europe per head of population .
However it  भी  inherited from British rule the problems of unemployment , emigration , uneven geographical development and  कमी   of  a native industrial base .
लिये  much of its history , the state struggled to rectify these problems .
particular  peaks of emigration  यहूद  recorded during the  लेट  1930s , 1950s and 1980s ,  जब  the Irish economy recorded  छोटी  growth  .
in  the 1930s , Fianna Fáil governments  attempted   to  create Irish domestic industries using subsidies and protective tarifs .
In  the  late 1950s , these policies were  dropped  in favour of free trade with selected countries and  प्रोत्साहित  of foreign investment with low taxes .
This was expanded when Ireland entered the European Economic  जातियाँ  in 1972 .
In the 1990s and 2000s , Ireland  अनुभवी  an economic  बूम  known as the Celtic  बाघ  , in which the country 's GDP surpassed many of its European neighbours .
Immigration also surpassed emigration , bringing the state 's population up to  over  4 million .
However , since 2008 , Ireland has experienced a severe crisis in the banking sector and with sovereign debt .
The resultant economic slump has deepened the effect  of  the world recession on Ireland .
From 1937 to 1998 , the Irish constitution included a claim on Northern Ireland as a part of the national territory .
However , the  राज्य  also opposed and used its security forces against those armed groups - principally the  अस्थायी  Irish Republican Army  ,  who tried to unite Ireland  by   फ़ोर्स  .
This occurred in the 1950s , throughout the 1970s and  1980s  and has continued on a reduced scale .
Irish governments meanwhile tried to  दलाली  an agreement to the conflict  ज्ञात   as   the  Troubles within Northern Ireland from 1968 to the late 1990s .
The British government officially recognised the right of the Irish  सरकारी  to be a party to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish Agreement  of  1985 .
In 1998 , as part of the Good Friday Agreement , the Irish constitution was altered by  referendum  to remove the territorial claim to  उत्तरी  Ireland and  बजाय  extend the right of Irish  नागरिकता  to all the people of the island should they wish to have it .
John Quincy Adams ( July 11 , 1767February 23  ,   1848  ) was the  छठे  President of the United  राज्य   (  1825–1829 ) .
He served as American diplomat , Senator , and  congressional  representative .
He was a member of the Federalist , Democratic-Republican ,  नेशनल  Republican , and later Anti-Masonic and Whig parties .
Adams was the son of former President  जॉन  Adams and Abigail Adams .
as  a diplomat , Adams played an important role in negotiating many international treaties  ,  most notably the  सन्धि  of Ghent , which ended the War of 1812 .
As Secretary of State , he negotiated with the United Kingdom over America 's northern border with  कनाडा  , negotiated with Spain the annexation of Florida , and  authored  the Monroe Doctrine .
Historians agree he was one of the greatest diplomats and secretaries of state in  अमरीकी  history .
As president , he sought to modernize the American economy and promoted  शिक्षा  .
Adams enacted a part of his agenda and paid off much of the national  कर्ज़  .
He was stymied  by   a  Congress controlled by his enemies , and his lack of patronage networks helped politicians eager to undercut him  .
He lost his 1828  बोली  for re-election to Andrew Jackson .
In doing so ,  he  became  the   पहला  president since his father to serve a single term .
Adams is best known as a diplomat who shaped America 's foreign policy  in  line with his ardently nationalist  प्रतिबद्धता   to  America 's republican values .
अधिक  recently Howe ( 2007 ) portrayed Adams as the exemplar and moral  नेता  in an era of modernization .
During Adams ' lifetime ,  technological  innovations and new means of communication spread messages of religious revival , social reform , and party politics .
Goods , money , and people traveled more rapidly and efficiently than ever before .
Adams was elected  a  U.S.  प्रतिनिधि  from Massachusetts after leaving office , serving for the last 17 years of his life  साथ  far greater acclamation than he  था  achieved as president .
He is , so far ,  the  only president later elected to the United States House  of  Representatives ( though  जॉन  Tyler was elected to the  हाउस  of Representatives of the Confederate States just before his death in 1862 ) .
Animated by his growing revulsion against slavery ,  एडम्स  became a leading opponent of  the  Slave Power .
He  पूर्वानुमानित  that if a civil  युद्ध  were  to  break out , the  अध्यक्ष  could abolish slavery by  using  his war powers .
Adams also predicted the Union 's dissolution over the slavery issue , but said  कि  if the South became independent  वहीँ  would be a series of bloody slave revolts .
Windows Internet  एक्सप्लोरर  9 ( IE9 ) is a version of the Internet Explorer web browser from Microsoft .
it  was released to the public on March 14 , 2011 .
Microsoft has released Internet Explorer 9 as a major  out-of-band  version that is not tied to the release schedule of any particular version of Windows , unlike previous versions .
It is the first  संस्करण   चूंकि   अंतरजाल  Explorer 2  to  not be bundled with a Windows operating system , although some OEMs  have   संस्थापित  it  साथ   खिड़कियाँ  7 on their PCs , as well as new Windows 7 laptops .
The system requirements  लिये  Internet Explorer 9 are Windows 7  ,  Windows Server 2008  r2  , Windows Vista Service Pack  2  or Windows Server 2008 SP2 with the  मंच  Update  .
Windows XP and earlier are not supported .
Internet Explorer 9 is the last version of Internet Explorer to be supported on Windows Vista  .
Both  ia-32  and x64 builds are available .
Internet Explorer 9 supports several CSS 3 properties , embedded ICC v2 or v4 color profiles support via Windows Color System , and has improved JavaScript performance .
It is the last of the five major web browsers to implement support  लिये  Scalable Vector Graphics ( SVG ) .
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using Direct2D  ,  hardware-accelerated text rendering using DirectWrite , hardware-accelerated  वीडियो  rendering using Media Foundation , imaging  support  provided by Windows Imaging Component , and high fidelity printing powered by the  xml   पेपर  Specification ( XPS  )  print pipeline .
Internet Explorer 9 also supports the HTML5 video and audio tags and the Web Open Font  स्वरूप  .
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent  antacid  and pain reliever first marketed by the Dr . Miles Medicine Company  .
It was developed by Maurice Treener , head chemist at Miles , in Elkhart , Indiana .
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of minor aches , pains , inflammation , fever ,  सिरदर्द  , heartburn , sour  पेट  , indigestion , and hangovers , while neutralizing excess stomach acid .
It was launched in 1931 .
A spin-off of Alka-Seltzer made to relieve colds and flu , Alka-Seltzer Plus , was later introduced .
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin variant , Alka-Mints , was  introduced  in 1994 and discontinued in 1997  .
Alka-Seltzer is currently owned by Bayer Schering Pharma  ag  , Germany .
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been extended to incorporate an entire line of medications sold over the counter and taken  by  means of rapidly dissolving tablets that form a carbonated  समाधान  in water .
Cherry Alka Seltzer Plus Tablet  dissolving  in water
Image showing the six most common speleothems with labels .
Enlarge to view labels .
A stalactite ( , ; from the Greek stalasso , ( σταλάσσω  )  , `` to drip '' , and meaning ``  कि  which drips '' ) is a type  of  speleothem ( secondary mineral ) that hangs from the ceiling  of  limestone caves .
It  is  a type of dripstone .
The corresponding formation on the floor  of  the cave is known as a stalagmite .
Degree abbreviations are  प्रयुक्त  as an alternative way to specify  an  academic degree instead of spelling out the title  in   पूरा  , such as in reference books like Who 's Who and on  कारोबार  cards  .
Many degrees have more than one abbreviation .
In the UK , it is  नहीं  generally the  कस्टम  to punctuate abbreviations for degrees  साथ  full stops ( e.g . `` BSc '' rather than  ``  B.Sc . `` .
Race is  a  classification system  प्रयुक्त  to categorize humans into large and distinct populations or groups by anatomical , cultural , ethnic  ,  genetic , geographical ,  ऐतिहासिक  , linguistic ,  धार्मिक  , or social affiliation .
First used to denote national affiliations , the term began to be used  to  relate to physical traits in the 17th century .
In the early  20th  century the term was  प्रायः  used , in a taxonomic sense , to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype .
While biologists sometimes use the  अवधारणा  of race to make distinctions among fuzzy sets of traits , others in the scientific community suggest that the idea of race often is used in a naive  or  simplistic way , i.e . that among humans , race has no taxonomic significance : all living humans belong to the same species , Homo  sapiens  and subspecies , Homo sapiens sapiens .
Social conceptions and groupings of races vary over time , involving folk taxonomies
कि  define of individuals based on perceived traits  .
Scientists consider biological essentialism  obsolete  , and generally discourage racial explanations for collective differentiation in both physical and behavioral traits .
Since the second half of  the  20th century  the  associations of race  साथ  the ideologies and theories that grew  आउट  of the work of 19th-century anthropologists and physiologists has led to the use of the word race  itself  becoming problematic .
Although still used in general contexts  ,  it is now often replaced by other words which are less ambiguous and emotionally charged , such as populations , people ( s  )  , ethnic groups or communities depending on context .
लुसी  Stone ( August 13 , 1818 – October 19 , 1893 ) was  a  prominent American abolitionist and suffragist , and a vocal advocate and organizer promoting rights for women .
In 1847 , Stone became the first woman from Massachusetts to earn a college degree .
She spoke out for  महिलाओं  's rights and against slavery  at  a  समय  when women  यहूद   हतोत्साहित  and prevented  इससे   पब्लिक   बोलना  .
Stone was the first  अंकित  American woman to retain her own last name after marriage  .
Stone 's organizational activities for the cause of women 's  अधिकारों  yielded tangible gains in the difficult political environment of the 19th century .
Stone helped initiate the first National Women 's Rights Convention  और  she  समर्थित  and sustained it annually along with a number of other  लोकल  , state and  क्षेत्रीय   activist  conventions .
Stone spoke in front  of  a number  of  legislative bodies to promote laws giving more rights to women .
She assisted in establishing the Woman 's National  वफ़ादार  League to help pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery , after which she helped form  the  largest group  of  like-minded women 's rights reformers , the politically moderate American Woman Suffrage Association , which worked for decades at the state level in favor of women  's  right to vote .
Stone wrote extensively  परिचय  a wide range of women 's rights , publishing and distributing speeches by  herself  and others , and convention proceedings .
In the long-running  और  influential Woman 's Journal  ,  a weekly periodical that she established and  प्रचारित  ,  स्टोन  aired both her own  और  differing views about women 's rights .
Called `` the  orator  '' and `` the morning star of  the  woman 's rights  गति  '' , Stone delivered a speech  जिससे  sparked Susan  B.  Anthony  to  take up the  कारण  of  महिलाओं  's suffrage .
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote that `` Lucy Stone was  the  first person by whom the heart of the American public  थी  deeply stirred on the woman question . ''
Together , Anthony , Stanton , and Stone have been called the 19th century `` triumvirate `` of  महिलाओं  's suffrage and feminism .
In finance , a bond is an instrument of indebtedness of the bond issuer to the holders .
It is a debt security , under which the issuer owes  the  holders a debt and , depending on the terms of the bond , is obliged  to  pay them interest ( the coupon  )  or  to  repay the principal at a later date , termed the maturity .
Interest is usually payable at fixed  intervals  ( semiannual , annual , sometimes monthly ) .
Very often the bond is negotiable , i.e . the ownership of  the  instrument can be transferred in the  द्वितीयक  market .
Thus a bond is a form of  ऋण  or  iou  : the holder  of  the bond is the  lender  (  creditor  ) , the issuer of the bond is the borrower ( debtor ) , and the coupon is the interest .
Bonds provide the borrower with external funds to finance long-term investments , or , in the case of government bonds , to finance current expenditure .
प्रमाणपत्र  of deposit ( CDs ) or short term commercial  पेपर   हैं  considered to be money market instruments and  नहीं  bonds : the main difference is in the length of the term of the instrument .
Bonds  और  stocks are both securities , but  the  major difference between the two is that ( capital ) stockholders have  an  equity stake in the company ( i.e . they are owners ) , whereas bondholders  have  a creditor  हिस्सेदारी  in the company  (  i.e . they are lenders ) .
Another difference is that bonds usually have a defined term  ,  or  परिपक्वता  , after which the bond  is  redeemed , whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely .
An exception is an irredeemable bond , such as Consols  ,  which  is  a perpetuity , i.e . a bond with no maturity .
A scale model of the Tower of London .
This model can be found inside the tower .
Scale model of  जल  powered turbine
L  to  R with  12  inch ruler at bottom : 1:64 Matchbox Chevrolet Tahoe , 1:43 Ford F-100 , 1:25 Revell Monogram 1999 Ford Mustang Cobra , 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
Model ships  और  castle
A scale model is  a  physical model , a representation  or  copy of an object that is larger or smaller than the actual size  of  the object , which seeks to maintain the relative proportions ( the scale factor ) of the physical size of the original object .
Very often  the  scale model is used as a guide to making the object in full size .
Scale models are built or collected for many reasons .
The Zune HD was a portable media player in the  zune  product family released on September 15 , 2009  by  Microsoft .
It was a direct competitor with the Apple iPod and iPhone series of mobile devices .
It  थी  initially  released  in 16 and  32  GB capacities .
A 64  gb  version  थी  released  on   अप्रैल  9 ,  2010  .
it  utilized a touchscreen interface for navigation and included Wi-Fi for synchronization , access to the Zune Marketplace  और  Web browsing .
The Zune HD utilized the Nvidia Tegra APX 2600 chip , allowing it to play 720p video through the optional HDMI Zune dock on a  high-definition  television .
Otherwise , content would be scaled down to 480x272 pixels on  the  player 's OLED touchscreen .
Old Sparky , the electric chair  प्रयुक्त  at Sing Sing  थाना
Execution by electrocution , usually performed using an electric chair , is an execution method  originating  in the United  राज्य  in which  the   condemned  person is strapped to a specially built wooden chair and electrocuted  through  electrodes placed on the body .
This execution method was created by employees of  थामस  Edison during the War of Currents , and has been used only  in  the United States and  ,   लिये  a period of several decades ,  in  the Philippines ( its first use there in 1924 under American occupation , last in  1976  ) .
Historically ,  एकबार  the condemned person was attached to the chair , various cycles  (  differing  in  voltage and  अवधि  ) of alternating current would  be  passed through the individual 's body , in order to  कारण  fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ) .
The first  धक्का  of electric current was designed to  कारण  immediate unconsciousness and brain death ;  the  second one was designed  to  cause fatal damage to the vital organs .
Death was  अक्सर  caused by electrical overstimulation of the heart .
हालांकि  in the United States the electric chair has become a  प्रतीक  of the death penalty , its use is in decline due to the rise of lethal injection , which is widely believed to be a more humane  विधि  of execution .
Although some states still maintain electrocution as a method  of   निष्पादन  ,  आज  it is only maintained as  a  secondary method that may be chosen over  lethal  injection at the request of  the  prisoner .
As  of  2010 ,  electrocution  is an optional form of execution in  अलबामा  , Florida , South  कैरोलिना  and Virginia .
They allow the prisoner to choose lethal injection as an alternative method .
In the states of Kentucky and Tennessee , the  इलेक्ट्रिक   कुर्सी  has been retired except for those whose capital crimes were committed prior to legislated dates in 1998 ( Kentucky : March 31 , 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31  ,  1998  )  and who chose electrocution .
In both states  ,  inmates who do not choose  electrocution  or inmates who committed their crimes after the designated date are killed by  lethal   इंजेक्शन  .
The electric chair is an alternate form of execution approved for potential use in Arkansas and Oklahoma if  अन्य  forms  of  execution are found unconstitutional in the state at the time of execution .
It is the sole method of execution in Vermont , where treason is the  तभी  capital crime .
On February 8 , 2008 ,  the  Nebraska Supreme Court determined that execution by electric chair was a  ``  cruel and unusual punishment '' under the state 's constitution .
This  brought   executions  of this type to  an   समाप्त  in Nebraska , the only remaining state to  retain  electrocution as its  एकमात्र  method  of  execution for murder .
The Maryland House of Delegates is the lower house of the General Assembly , the state legislature of the American State of Maryland , and is composed of 141 Delegates elected from 47 districts .
the   हाउस  of Delegates Chamber is located in the Maryland State  हाउस  ( state capitol ) on State Circle in Annapolis ,  जिससे  is the state  पूंजी  .
The State House also houses the Maryland State Senate Chamber and the offices of the Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the State of Maryland .
Each Delegate has offices in Annapolis ,  in  the nearby Casper R. Taylor , Jr. House Office Building .
The Liberation of Paris (  भी  known  as  the Battle for Paris ) took place during World War II  इससे  19  अगस्त  1944 until the surrender of the occupying German garrison on 25 August .
The  मुक्ति  of Paris started with an uprising by the French Resistance against the German garrison .
On 24 August , the French Forces of the Interior ( Forces françaises de l'intérieur , FFI ) received reinforcements from the  फ़्री  French Army of Liberation and from the U.S. Third Army under General Patton .
The capital region of France had been governed by Nazi Germany since the  हस्ताक्षर  of the Second Compiègne Armistice in June 1940 , when  the  German Army occupied northern and westernmost France , and when the  कठपुतली  regime of Vichy France was established in the town of Vichy in central France .
This battle marked the  मुक्ति   of  Paris and the exile of the Vichy government to Sigmaringen in Germany .
however  , there was still much heavy fighting to be done before France was liberated , including the campaign  in  southern France during August-September (  in  Provence and extending into the southwestern region of the Vosges Mountains ) , along  the  German-held seaports of  पश्चिमी  France ( such as  at  Brest and Dunkirk ) , in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France , and in northeastern France , such as along  the  Rhine and  moder  Rivers  .
The German Army and SS fought doggedly in these areas for the remainder  of  1944 and into 1945 .
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as `` Feeling Alright '' is  a  song written by  डेव  Mason of the English  चट्टान  band Traffic from their eponymous 1968 album  ,  Traffic .
The song was also a hit single for several performers : Joe Cocker ( 1969 , #  69  , recharted in 1972 , US # 33 ) , Mongo Santamaría ( 1969  ,  # 95 )  और  Grand  दुर्गंध  Railroad ( 1971 , US # 54 ) .
It has also been  अंकित  by  तीन  Dog Night ( 1969  )  , The 5th  आयाम  ( 1970 ) , Lou Rawls , Freddie King , Paul Weller , Lulu ,  chairmen  of the Board ( 1970 ) , Rare Earth , The Electric Concept Orchestra , Mother 's Finest ( 1973 ) , The Ohio Players ( 1971 ) , Diana Ross with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ) , Maceo Parker , Gladys Knight & the Pips ,  फैली  Panic and The Black Crowes .
A Steel  ढोल  version by Trinidad Oil  कम्पनी  was reissued  on  the dancefloor jazz compilation Blue Juice 2 .
It was also featured in  the  2000 film Duets  ,  sung  by  Huey Lewis .
Both the original and the Joe Cocker cover were featured in the movie Flight , starring Denzel Washington  .
Devon Werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an American actor , voice actor , singer , songwriter and musician  ,  best known for his starring role as Ned Bigby on the  निकलोडियन  sitcom Ned 's Declassified School  अस्तित्व  Guide and  लिये  his role in the 2007 TV Movie Shredderman Rules , as the  सीसे   अक्षर   नोलन  Byrd .
Werkheiser also played Peter  parkes  in the fourth and final  ऋतु  of the ABC Family show Greek .
Sample  दृश्य  of an electronic health record based on images
Sample view of an electronic health record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an  evolving  concept defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual patients or populations .
It is  a  record in digital format that is theoretically  सक्षम  of being  साझा   आरपार  different health care settings .
In some cases this sharing can occur by way  of  network-connected enterprise-wide information systems and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may  शामिल  a range of  आंकड़ा  ,  सहित  demographics , medical history , medication and allergies , immunization status ,  प्रयोगशाला  test results , radiology images , vital signs , personal stats like age and weight , and billing  सूचना  .
Loan origination is the process  by  which a borrower applies for a new loan , and a lender  प्रक्रियाओं  that application .
Origination generally includes all the steps from taking a loan application up to disbursal of funds ( or declining the application ) .
Loan servicing covers everything after disbursing the funds  जबतक  the loan is fully paid  बंद  .
Loan origination is a specialized version of new account opening for financial services organizations .
Certain people and  संगठन  specialize  in  loan origination .
Mortgage brokers and other  बंधक  originator companies serve as a prominent example .
There are many different types of  लोन  .
For more information on loan types ,  देखिए  the loan and consumer lending articles .
Steps involved in originating a loan vary by loan type , various kinds of loan risk , regulator , lender  नीति  ,  और  other factors .
Top left : The Tennessee Valley Authority , part of the New Deal , being signed into law in 1933  .
Top right : Franklin Delano Roosevelt , who was responsible for initiatives  और  programs collectively known  as  the New Deal .
Bottom : A public mural  इससे  one of the artists employed by the New Deal .
The New Deal was a series of economic  कार्यक्रम  enacted in the United States between 1933 and  1936  .
They involved presidential executive orders or  कानून  passed by Congress  दौरान  the  पहला   पद  of President Franklin D. Roosevelt .
the   कार्यक्रम  were in  जवाब  to the Great Depression , and focused on what historians  कॉल   the   ``  3 Rs ''  :   राहत  , Recovery , and Reform .
That is  राहत  for the unemployed and poor  ;   रिकवरी  of the economy to normal  स्तर  ; and Reform of the financial system  to  prevent a repeat depression .
The New Deal produced a political realignment , making the Democratic Party the  बहुमत  ( as  खूब  as the party that held the White House for seven out  of   नौ  Presidential terms from 1933 to  1969  ) , with its base in  उदार  ideas  ,  the white South  ,  traditional  डेमोक्रेट  , big city  मशीने  , and the newly empowered labor unions and ethnic minorities .
The Republicans were split , with conservatives opposing the entire New Deal as an enemy of business and growth , and liberals accepting some  of  it and promising to make it more efficient .
The  realignment  crystallized into the New Deal Coalition that dominated most presidential elections into the  1960s  , while the opposition Conservative Coalition largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963 .
by   1936  the term  ``  liberal '' typically was used for supporters of the New Deal , and `` conservative `` for its opponents  .
From 1934 to 1938 , Roosevelt was assisted in his  endeavours  by a  “pro-spender”  majority  in  Congress ( drawn  इससे   two-party  , competitive , non-machine , Progressive  ,  and Left party districts ) .
As noted  by  Alexander Hicks  ,  “Roosevelt , backed by rare , non-Southern Democrat majorities — 270 non-Southern Democrat representatives and 71 non-Southern Democrat senators — spelled Second New  सौदे  reform.”
अनेक  historians distinguish between a `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) and a `` Second New  सौदे  '' (  1935–38  ) ,  साथ  the second one more liberal and more controversial .
The `` First New  सौदे  '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt with diverse groups , from banking and railroads to industry and farming , all of which demanded help for economic survival .
The Federal Emergency Relief Administration , for instance , provided  $  500 million for relief operations by states and cities , while  the  short-lived CWA  (  Civil Works Administration ) gave localities money to operate  make-work  projects in 1933-34 .
The `` Second  नई  Deal `` in 1935–38 included the Wagner Act to promote labor unions , the Works Progress  प्रशासन  ( WPA ) relief  कार्यक्रम  ( which  बना  the federal government by far the largest single employer  in  the nation ) , the Social Security Act , and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers .
The final major items of New Deal legislation were the creation of the United States Housing Authority  और  Farm Security  प्रशासन  , both in 1937 , and  the  Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 ,  जिससे  set maximum hours and minimum wages for most categories of workers .
The economic downturn of 1937–38 , and the bitter split between the  afl  and CIO labor unions led to major Republican  gains   in  Congress in 1938 .
Conservative Republicans and Democrats in Congress joined in the informal Conservative  गठबन्धन  .
By 1942–43 they shut down relief programs such as the WPA  और  CCC and blocked major liberal proposals .
Roosevelt himself turned his attention  to  the war effort , and  जीती  reelection in 1940 and 1944 .
The Supreme Court declared  the  National  रिकवरी  Administration ( NRA ) and the first version of the Agricultural  समायोजन  Act ( AAA ) unconstitutional  ,  however the AAA was rewritten and then upheld .
As the first Republican president elected after FDR ,  ड्वाइट  D. Eisenhower ( 1953–61 ) left the New Deal largely intact , even expanding  it  in some areas .
In the 1960s ,  lyndon  B. Johnson 's  ग्रेट  Society used the New  सौदे  as inspiration for a dramatic expansion of liberal programs ,  जिससे  Republican Richard M. Nixon generally retained .
After 1974 , however , the call for deregulation of  the  economy gained bipartisan support .
The  नई  Deal regulation  of  banking ( Glass–Steagall Act )  थी  suspended in the 1990s .
Many New Deal programs remain active  ,  with some still operating under the original names , including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) , the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation ( FCIC ) , the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA )  ,  and the Tennessee Valley Authority ( TVA ) .
The largest programs  स्टिल  in existence today are the Social Security System  और  the Securities and Exchange  आयोग  (  सेक  ) .
A woman ( ) , pl :  महिलाओं  (  )  is a female human .
The term woman is usually reserved for an adult , with the term girl being the usual term for a female child or adolescent .
However , the term woman  is   भी  sometimes used to identify a female human , regardless of  आयु   ,   as   in  phrases such as `` Women 's rights `` .
Women are  typically  capable of  giving   जनम  , though older women who have gone through menopause and  कुछ  intersex women  can  not .
`` I Do n't Want to Miss a Thing '' is  a  song performed by American rock band Aerosmith  लिये  the 1998 film Armageddon .
Written by Diane Warren , the song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100  (  the first #  1  for the band after  28  years  साथ  ) .
The song  ठहरे  at number one for four weeks from September 5 to September 26 , 1998 .
The song also stayed at number  1  for several weeks in several other  देशों  .
in  the UK , the song peaked at number four , becoming Aerosmith 's highest charting song in the UK ,  जहाँ  it was the 17th best-selling single of 1998 , and has  बेची   over   a  million copies .
Although not used by the majority of the world  's  countries , daylight saving  समय  is common in the Western world .
daylight  saving time ( DST ) —also  गर्मियाँ  time  in  British English —  is  the practice of advancing clocks during the lighter months so that evenings have more daylight and mornings  have  less .
Typically clocks  हैं  adjusted forward one hour near the start of spring and are adjusted backward  in  autumn .
The modern idea of daylight saving was first proposed in  1895  by  जार्ज  Vernon Hudson  और  it was first  implemented  during the First  संसार  War .
Many countries  have  used it at various times since then .
Much of the United  राज्य  used DST in the 1950s and 1960s , and DST  उपयोग  expanded following the  1970s  energy crisis and has been widely used in  उत्तर  America and Europe since then .
The practice  रै  been both praised and criticized .
Adding daylight  to  evenings benefits retailing , sports , and other  क्रियाएँ  that exploit sunlight after working  घंटों   ,  but can cause problems for evening entertainment and other occupations tied to the sun .
Although an early goal of  dst  was  to  reduce evening usage of incandescent lighting ( formerly a primary use of electricity ) , modern heating and cooling usage patterns differ greatly , and research about how DST currently affects energy  उपयोग  is limited or contradictory  .
DST clock shifts present  अन्य  challenges .
वे   complicate  timekeeping  ,  and can disrupt meetings , travel , billing  ,   रिकार्ड  keeping  ,  medical devices , heavy equipment , and sleep patterns .
Software can often adjust computer clocks automatically , but this can be limited and error-prone , particularly when DST dates are changed .
Floorplan  of   the  Château de Montargis
Montargis  is  a commune in the  loiret  department in north-central France on the  loing  river  .
The town is located about south of Paris and east of Orléans in the Gâtinais .
Montargis is the second largest city  in   the  Loiret , after  orléans  .
It is near a large forest , and contains light industry and farming , including saffron .
Due to its numerous canals and bridges , Montargis sometimes bills itself as the ``  वेनिस  of the Gâtinais . ''
Though quite modern  ,  it retains a medieval charm in its downtown area .
In computer storage , a logical unit number , or LUN , is a number used to identify a logical unit , which is a device addressed by the SCSI protocol or protocols which  encapsulate  SCSI ,  ऐसे  as  fibre  Channel or iSCSI .
A LUN may  be  used with any device which  supports  read/write operations , such as a tape drive , but is most often used to refer to a logical  डिस्क  as created on a SAN .
Though not  technically  correct , the term `` LUN '' is often also  प्रयुक्त  to  refer  to the logical disk itself .
the  Gospel According  to  Mark ( , , to euangelion kata Markon ) , commonly shortened to the Gospel of Mark or simply Mark , is the second book  of  the New Testament .
इस  canonical  खाता  of the life  of  Jesus of Nazareth  is  one of the three synoptic gospels .
It was thought to  be  an epitome , which accounts for its place as the second  इन्जील  in  the  Bible .
However , most contemporary scholars now regard it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ) .
That Mark was used as a source for the other synoptic gospels Gospel of Matthew and Gospel of Luke is widely held by many , although not all , New Testament scholars .
The  इन्जील  of Mark narrates the Ministry of Jesus from his baptism by John the Baptist  to  his death  और  resurrection .
It focuses particularly on the last week of his life ( chapters 11–16 ) in Jerusalem .
Its swift narrative portrays Jesus as a heroic man of action , an exorcist , healer and  चमत्कार  worker .
An important theme of  चिह्नित  is the Messianic Secret .
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals , tries unsuccessfully  to  keep his messianic  पहचान  secret , and conceals his message with parables .
Meanwhile , the disciples fail to understand both the  implication  of the miracles of Jesus and the meaning of the things he predicts about his arrest , death and resurrection .
Most  विद्वानों  believe that the original text  of  the gospel ends at Mark 16:8  साथ  the  डिस्कवरी  of Jesus  '  empty tomb and that  the  following account of his resurrection appearances is a  बाद  addition .
According to  परंपरा  and some early church writers ,  the  author is Mark the Evangelist , the companion of the apostle  पीटर  .
The gospel , however , appears  to  rely on several underlying sources ,  varying   in  form and in theology , which tells  विरूद्ध  the tradition that the gospel was  आधारित   on   पीटर  's preaching .
The text  is  a compilation which may include eye-witness  खाते  as well as known apostolic preachings , and pre-existing written records  कि  do not exist today but can be confirmed from 2nd-century commentators .
Some of the stories in the  इन्जील  may have been transmitted orally before being written down  .
विभिन्न  elements within the gospel  सुझाएँ  that the author wrote in Syria or Palestine for a non-Jewish Christian community .
The  रब  of the Rings is an epic high fantasy  अनोखा  written by English philologist and University of Oxford professor J.  R.  R.  tolkien  .
The story began  as  a sequel to  tolkien  's 1937 children 's fantasy novel The Hobbit , but eventually developed into  a  much larger work .
It was written in stages between 1937 and  1949  , much of it during World War II .
It is the second best-selling novel ever written , with over 150 million copies sold .
The title of the novel refers to the story 's main antagonist , the Dark Lord Sauron , who had in an earlier  आयु  created the One Ring to rule the other Rings of Power as  the  ultimate weapon in his campaign to conquer  और  rule all of Middle-earth .
From quiet beginnings in the Shire , a Hobbit land  नहीं  unlike the English countryside , the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth , following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its  वर्ण  , notably  the  hobbits Frodo Baggins ,  samwise  `` Sam '' Gamgee , Meriadoc `` Merry  ''  Brandybuck and  peregrin  `` Pippin '' Took  ,  but also the hobbits ' chief  allies  and travelling companions : Aragorn ,  a  Human Ranger  ;  Boromir , a man from Gondor ; Gimli , a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas , an Elven prince ; and Gandalf ,  a  Wizard .
The work was initially intended by  tolkien  to be one volume of a two-volume set , with the  अन्य  being The Silmarillion , but this idea was dismissed by his publisher .
It  थी  decided for economic reasons  to  publish The Lord of the Rings as three volumes over the course of a year from 29 July 1954  to  20  अक्तूबर   1955  , thus creating the now familiar  रब  of the Rings trilogy .
The three volumes were entitled The  फेलोशिप  of the Ring , The Two Towers , and The Return of the King .
Structurally , the novel is divided internally into six books , two per volume , with several appendices of background material included at the end of the third  आवाज़  .
The Lord  of   the  Rings has since  महरूम  reprinted numerous times and  अनूदित   into  many languages .
Tolkien  's  work has been the subject of extensive analysis of its themes and origins .
Although  a  major work in itself , the story was only the last movement of a larger epic Tolkien had worked on since 1917 ,  in   a  process he described as  mythopoeia  .
Influences  on  this earlier work , and on the story of The  रब  of the Rings , include philology ,  mythology  ,  धर्म  and the author 's  distaste  for the effects of industrialization , as well as earlier fantasy works and Tolkien 's  अनुभवों  in  संसार  War  i  .
The Lord of the  बजती  in its turn is considered to have had a great effect on modern fantasy ; the impact of Tolkien 's works is such that the use of  the  words `` Tolkienian '' and `` Tolkienesque '' have been  अंकित  in the Oxford English Dictionary .
The  enduring  popularity of The Lord of the Rings has led to numerous  सन्दर्भ  in popular culture , the founding of many societies by fans of Tolkien 's works , and the publication of many books about Tolkien  और  his works .
the  Lord of the  बजती  has inspired , and continues  to  inspire , artwork , music , films and television , video games , and subsequent literature .
Award-winning adaptations of The Lord of  the  Rings have been made for radio , theatre , and film  .
The following is an episode list for the Nickelodeon sitcom Drake & Josh .
The series debuted on January 11 , 2004 .
a  TV film  मैरी  Christmas , Drake & Josh was made apart  इससे  the regular series on December 5 , 2008 .
There are a total of  60  episodes were produced spanning four seasons .
Drake Bell , Josh Peck , and Miranda Cosgrove  यहूद  the only actors to appear in all  60  episodes .
The San Francisco 49ers conduct training camp at the  टोली  's headquarters and practice facility in Santa Clara , California in August  2010  .
The offense is wearing red jerseys with the  एक्सेप्शन   of  quarterback Alex Smith , who is in  a  black jersey ; the defense in white .
In the National Football League  ,  training camp refers to the time before the season  commences  .
During this time , teams will sometimes congregate at an outside location ,  प्रायः  a university , to conduct training camp for at least the  पहला  few weeks .
This is similar to baseball 's spring training .
Training  शिविर  is used in several different ways .
New players and coaches use it to acclimate themselves to new teammates and  प्रणालियों   .
लिये  younger players , it serves as a period of evaluation ; for veterans , it is time to round back into form .
Training camp is divided into several different components .
The  पहला  is scrimmages .
These are pseudo-games where teams  चलाएं  nearly full games ' worth of plays  .
Sometimes , two practice  सत्र  are held on the same day .
This concept is referred to as two-a-days .
Other parts  of  training camp include drills , meetings with coaches  और  other players at one 's position ,  वज़न  training  ,  and pre-season games  .
The latter  हाफ  of training camp leads  सीधे  into  the  exhibition season  .
With NFL training camps starting in late-July , the biggest concern has been dehydration .
In 2001 , Minnesota Vikings  खिलाड़ी  Korey Stringer died of a medical condition based from dehydration and heatstroke .
The death of Stringer prompted the NFL to change their training policies .
At each practice  ,  every team must have the team doctor and trainers on the field ; additionally , an ambulance must be present during practices .
With NFL  प्रशिक्षण  camps beginning in late  जुलाई  , severe weather can affect practice and exhibition  खेल  .
In 2002 , a Cleveland Browns exhibition game ended due to lightning  निकट   क्लीवलैंड  Browns Stadium , and severe storms  have  been known to disrupt training camps .
Fans are often able to visit their favorite team 's training camp to catch an early look at the players ;  प्रवेश  to practices is often free or substantially less expensive than a game ticket , making training camp trips a popular  विकल्प  for fans who can not attend many  खेल  due to  वित्तीय  or other reasons .
NFL teams often sell souvenirs and concessions at camp sites along with offering activities and events to make training  शिविर  a more  fan-friendly   अनुभव  .
In computing , a file system ( or filesystem ) is a type of data store which can be used to store , retrieve and update  a  set of files  .
The term could refer to the abstract  आंकड़ा  structures used to define files , or to the actual software or firmware components that implement the abstract ideas .
Some file systems are used on local data storage devices  ;  others provide file access via a network protocol ( e.g .  nfs  , SMB , or 9P clients  )  .
Some file systems  हैं  ``  आभासी  '' , in that the `` files '' supplied are computed on request ( e.g . procfs ) or are merely a mapping into a different file system used as a backing store .
The file system manages access  to  both the content of files and the metadata about those files .
it  is responsible for arranging storage space  ;  reliability , efficiency , and tuning with regard to the physical storage medium are important design considerations .
William Howard Taft  (  September 15 , 1857 – March 8 , 1930 ) was the 27th President  of  the United States ( 1909–1913 ) and later the tenth Chief Justice of  the  United States ( 1921–1930 ) .
he  is the only person to have served in both of these offices .
Before becoming President , Taft , a Republican , was selected to serve  on   the  Superior Court of Cincinnati in 1887  .
In 1890 , Taft  थी  appointed Solicitor General of the  संयुक्त  States and  in  1891 a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit .
In 1900 , President William McKinley appointed Taft Governor-General of the Philippines  .
In 1904 , President Theodore Roosevelt appointed Taft Secretary of War in an effort to groom Taft , then his close political ally , into his handpicked  अध्यक्षीय  successor .
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving , assuming on some occasions the role of  एक्टिंग   सचिव  of  राज्य  , while declining  दोहराया  offers from Roosevelt  to  serve on the Supreme Court .
Riding a wave of popular support for fellow Republican Roosevelt , Taft won an easy victory in his 1908 bid for the presidency  .
In  उसके  only term , Taft 's domestic agenda emphasized trust-busting , civil service reform , strengthening the Interstate  कॉमर्स  Commission , improving  the  performance of the postal service , and passage of the Sixteenth  amendment  .
Abroad , Taft sought to further the economic development of  राष्ट्र  in Latin America and  एशिया  through `` Dollar Diplomacy `` , and showed  decisiveness  and restraint  in  response to revolution in Mexico .
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious  to  the political ramifications of his decisions , often alienated his own key constituencies , and was overwhelmingly defeated in his bid for a second term in  the  presidential election of 1912 .
In surveys of presidential scholars  ,  Taft is usually ranked near the middle of lists of  सब  American Presidents .
After leaving office ,  taft  spent his time  in   academia  , arbitration , and  the  search for world peace through his  self-founded  League to Enforce Peace  .
In 1921 , after the First World War ,  अध्यक्ष   वारेन  G. Harding appointed Taft Chief Justice of the United States .
Taft served in this capacity until  shortly  before his death in 1930 .
the  Ten Commandments is a 1956 epic  फिल्मी  produced and directed by Cecil  B.   demille  that dramatized the biblical story of the Exodus , in which the Hebrew-born  मूसा  , an adopted Egyptian  प्रिंस  , becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew  स्लेव  .
It starred  चार्ल्टन  Heston in the lead role , Yul Brynner as his adoptive brother , Pharaoh Rameses II , Anne Baxter as Nefretiri  ,   एडवर्ड  G. Robinson  as  Dathan ,  yvonne  De Carlo as Sephora ,  डेबरा  Paget as Lilia , and John Derek as Joshua  .
The supporting  डाल  includes Sir Cedric Hardwicke as Pharaoh Seti I , Nina Foch as Bithiah , Martha Scott as Yoshebel , Judith Anderson as Memnet , Vincent Price as  baka  , and John Carradine as Aaron .
The film was released by Paramount Pictures in VistaVision  on  October 5 , 1956 .
The Ten Commandments  ,   जिससे  DeMille narrated , was the last film that he directed .
He was set to  सीधा  the 1958  रीमेक  of his 1938 film The  buccaneer  , but his final  बीमारी  forced him to relinquish the directing chores to his  son-in-law   ,  actor Anthony Quinn .
DeMille had also planned to film the life of Lord Baden Powell , the founder of the Scout movement  ,  with David Niven ; this project was never realized .
The Ten  आयतें  is a partial remake of DeMille 's 1923 silent film .
कुछ  of the  डाल  and crew of the 1956 version worked on the original .
It has since been remade  as   a  television miniseries broadcast in April 2006 .
The Ten  आयतें  is  एक  of the most financially successful films ever made  ,  grossing over $ 65 million  at   the  U.S. box office .
Adjusting for inflation  ,  this makes it the sixth highest-grossing film domestically , with an adjusted total of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012 .
The box office website `` The Numbers '' lists the domestic gross at $ 80  लाख  .
In 1999 , The Ten Commandments was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally  ,  historically , or  aesthetically  significant  ''  .
In June  2008  ,  the  American Film Institute revealed its `` Ten Top  टेन  `` —the best ten films in ten American film  genres—after  polling over 1,500 people from the creative community .
The Ten Commandments was listed as the tenth best film in the epic genre .
The film received seven Academy Award nominations including Best Picture , and won the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects .
Charlton Heston was nominated  लिये   a  Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture Actor in the drama category .
Yul Brynner  जीती  the National Board of Review Award for Best  कर्ता  for his role as Rameses , along  साथ  his other  भूमिकाएँ   in  The King and I and Anastasia .
Louisville ( , or ) is a major city and the  largest   नगर   in  the U.S. state of Kentucky and the county seat of Jefferson County .
Since 2003 , the city 's borders have been with those  of  the county  क्युकी  of a city-county merger .
The city  's   कुल  consolidated population  at  the 2010 census was 741,096 ( Louisville 's balance total , 602,011 , excludes semi-autonomous  कस्बों  and is the population listed in most sources and national rankings ) .
As of 2010 , the Louisville metropolitan area ( MSA  )   था  a population of 1,307,647 ranking 42nd nationally .
The metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson County  और  12 surrounding counties  ,  eight in Kentucky and  चार  in Southern Indiana (  देखिए  Geography below )  .
the  Louisville Combined Statistical Area , having a population of 1,451,564 , includes the MSA , Hardin County and Larue County in Kentucky , and Scott County , Indiana .
An important internal shipping port in the 19th century , Louisville today is best known as the location of the Kentucky Derby , the first  of   तीन  annual  thoroughbred  horse  दौड़  making up the Triple Crown .
A typical  प्रायोगिक  setup for an  aldol  reaction .
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78 °C )  the  temperature of which is being monitored by a thermocouple ( the wire on the left ) .
A cooling bath  ,  in  प्रयोगशाला  chemistry ( often but not always organic chemistry ) practice  ,  is a liquid mixture which is  प्रयुक्त  to maintain low temperatures , typically between 13 °C and −196 °C .
ये  low temperatures are  प्रयुक्त  to collect liquids after distillation , to remove solvents using a rotary evaporator , or to perform a chemical reaction below room temperature ( see : kinetic  कंट्रोल   )  .
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a  ठंडा  fluid ( particularly liquid nitrogen , water , or even air  )  — but most  commonly  the term refers to  (  b ) a mixture of 3 components  :   (  1 ) a cooling agent ( such as dry ice  or  water ice  )  ; ( b ) a liquid  'कैरीr  ' ( such  as  liquid water , ethylene  ग्लाइकोल  ,  एसीटोन  , etc .  )   ,  which transfers heat between the  नहाना  and the vessel  ;   ;  and ( c ) an additive  to  depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid  प्रणाली  .
( A familiar example of this is the use of an ice/rock-salt mixture to freeze ice cream .
The  phase-change  of ice into liquid  जल  requires energy , 'pulling '  ऊष्मा  from the system .
Adding salt lowers the  अस्थायी   at  which this happens ,  अर्थ  more energy has to be absorbed from the environment in order to melt the ice .
This effectively makes the ice 'colder ' — it must 'pull '  अधिक  heat from its environment to become liquid . )
Eating disorders are conditions defined by abnormal eating habits that may involve either insufficient or excessive food  सेवन  to the detriment of an individual 's physical and mental health .
Bulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa are the most common specific forms in  the  United Kingdom .
Other types of eating disorders include binge eating disorder and eating disorder not  वरना   निर्दिष्ट  .
Bulimia nervosa is a disorder characterized by binge eating and purging .
Purging can include self-induce vomiting , over-exercising , and the usage of diuretics , enemas , and laxatives .
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by extreme food restriction to the point of  self-starvation  and excessive weight loss .
Though primarily thought of as affecting females ( an estimated 5–10 million being affected in the U.K. ) , eating disorders affect males as  खूब  .
An estimated 10 – 15 % of people with eating  विकार  are males (  गोर्गान   ,  1999 ) .
(  an  estimated 1 million U.K. males being affected ) .
Although  खाने   विकार  are increasing all  over  the world among both men and women , there is evidence to suggest that it is women in the Western world who are at the highest risk of developing them  और  the degree of westernization increases the risk .
Nearly half of  सब  Americans personally know someone with an eating disorder .
the  skill to comprehend the central processes of appetite has increased tremendously since  लेप्टिन  was discovered , and  the  skill to observe the functions of the  दिमाग  as well .
Interactions between motivational , homeostatic and self-regulatory control processes are involved  in   खाने  behaviour , which is a key component  in  eating disorders .
The precise cause of  खाने  disorders is not entirely understood , but there  is   प्रमाण  that it  may  be linked to other medical conditions  और  situations .
Cultural idealization of thinness and youthfulness have contributed to eating disorders affecting diverse populations .
One study showed that girls  साथ  ADHD have a greater chance of getting an eating disorder than  those  not affected by  adhd  .
Another study suggested that women with PTSD , especially due to sexually related  आघात  , are more likely to develop anorexia nervosa .
One study showed that foster girls are more likely to develop bulimia nervosa .
Some think that  पीर  pressure and idealized body-types seen in the media are also a significant  फ़ैक्टर  .
Some research show that for certain people there  हैं  genetic reasons why they may  be  prone to developing  an  eating disorder .
Recent studies  have  found evidence a correlation between patients with bulimia nervosa and substance use disorders .
in   जोड  , anxiety disorders and personality disorders are common occurrences with clients of eating disorders .
While proper treatment  can  be highly  प्रभावी  for many  कष्ट  from specific types of eating disorders ,  the  consequences of eating disorders can be severe , including death ( whether from direct medical effects of disturbed eating  आदतें  or from comorbid conditions such as suicidal thinking ) .
Slavery in the  संयुक्त  States existed from the  जल्दी  years  of  the colonial period ; it  थी  firmly established by the time  the  United States sought independence from Great Britain in 1776 .
However , by 1804 , all states north of the  मेसन   और  Dixon Line had either abolished slavery outright or passed  कानून  for the gradual abolition of slavery .
In 1787 Congress prohibited slavery in the Northwest Territory  .
But slavery gained new life in the South with the cotton industry after 1800 , and expanded into the Southwest .
The nation was polarized into  स्लेव  and free states  साथ  the Mason-Dixon Line , which separated  पेन्सिलवेनिया  and  मेरीलैंड  .
The United States and Great Britain both prohibited the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  slave trade in 1808 , but the domestic trade , with sales to the Deep South , expanded dramatically , and many captives were shipped by the coastwise slave trade .
Before the  1840s  , the South  थी  vigorously defending slavery and its expansion into the territories .
In the  उत्तर  some abolitionists  denounced  it as  गुनाहगार  ,  और  numerous anti-slavery forces rejected it as detrimental to the rights of free men .
After failed compromises  और  Abraham Lincoln 's election , in 1861 eleven slave states  broke  away to  रूप   the   confederate   राज्य   of  America , leading to the American Civil War .
The federal government in 1862 made abolition of slavery a war goal .
In  जनवरी  1863 President Lincoln freed  स्लेव  in the Confederacy through the Emancipation Proclamation .
बाद  the  युद्ध  , the Thirteenth Amendment ,  प्रभावी  December 1865  ,   abolished  slavery throughout the entire United States , including the Border  राज्य  and the Indian territories .
From the 16th to  the  19th  सदियां  , an estimated 12 million Africans were shipped as slaves to the Americas .
See  गुलामी  in the Americas .
The great majority went to the sugar  बागानों  of the West Indies or Brazil ,  जहाँ  mortality was high .
About 645,000 were brought to what is now the United States .
By the 1860 United  राज्य  Census , the slave population in the American South had grown to four million .
Of  सब   1,515,605  families in the 15 slave states , nearly 400,000 held slaves ( roughly one in  चार  ) , amounting to 8 % of all American families .
While some  स्लेव  worked as house servants  और   शहरी  artisans , the great majority  worked  on plantations or large farms ,  cultivating  lucrative cash crops , such as rice , tobacco , sugar and , after 1800 , chiefly cotton .
By 1860 most slaves were held in the Deep South , where they served in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in cotton .
In small operations , they worked with their owners .
In large plantations they were directed by white paid overseers .
Under the system that became chattel slavery ( ownership of a human  होने  , and of his/her descendants ) , a racial element was fundamental : slaves were blacks of African descent and owned , almost universally , by whites of European descent .
In  the  17th century , Virginia  ,  followed by other southern colonies , enacted law that children of slave mothers were born into slavery  .
Slaves could  लाभ  freedom only by running  दूर  ( which was difficult and illegal to do ) , or by manumission by owners  ,  which  थी  regulated by states , and became increasingly  मुश्किल   or  prohibited .
In the earliest era of chattel slavery , the colonies also organized work by a  प्रणाली  of bonded labor known as indentured servitude .
This  typically  lasted for several years for both poor Europeans and Africans alike , to  अदा  off the costs of transport to the colonies .
They contracted for such arrangements because of poor economies  in  their home countries .
between  1680 and 1700 , as fewer  europeans  migrated to  the  colonies , planters began to import more Africans as slaves .
Recognizing the importance  of  slavery , the House of Burgesses in Virginia enacted  a  new slave code in 1705 ; it combined  a  variety of legislation  और  added new provisions enforcing white supremacy in the law .
Schematic cross  खण्ड  of part of leaf , xylem shown as red circles at figure 8 .
Xylem is one  of  the two  प्रकार  of transport tissue in vascular  पौधे  ( phloem is the other ) .
The word xylem is derived from the  यूनानी  word ξύλον ( xylon  )  , meaning `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem tissue  is  wood , though it is  मिला  throughout  the  plant  .
Its basic function is to transport water , but it also transports  कुछ  nutrients through the  संयंत्र   .
This clock representation shows some of the major units  of  geological time and definitive events of Earth history .
The Hadean eon represents the time before fossil record of life on Earth ; its upper boundary is now regarded  as  4.0 Ga ( billion years ago ) .
Other subdivisions  प्रतिबिंबित  the evolution of life ; the Archean and Proterozoic are both eons , the Palaeozoic , Mesozoic and Cenozoic  हैं  eras of the  phanerozoic  eon .
The two million  साल  Quaternary period , the time of recognizable humans , is  too  small to be visible at this scale .
The geologic time  स्केल  is a system of chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy  to  time , and is used  by  geologists , paleontologists , and other earth scientists to describe the timing and relationships  between  events that have occurred  throughout  Earth 's  इतिहास  .
The table of geologic time spans presented  यहाँ  agrees with  the  dates and nomenclature  नियत  forth by the International Commission on Stratigraphy standard color codes of the International Commission on  स्तरिकी  .
Evidence from radiometric  डेटिंग  indicates that the  धरती  is about 4.54 billion years old .
the  geology or deep time of Earth 's past has been organized into various units according to events which took  प्लेस  in each  काल  .
Different spans of time on the GTS are usually delimited by changes in the composition of strata which correspond  to  them , indicating major  geological  or paleontological events , such as mass extinctions .
For example ,  the  boundary between the Cretaceous period and the Paleogene period is defined by the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event ,  जिससे  marked the demise of the dinosaurs and many other groups  of  life .
Older time spans which predate the reliable fossil record ( before the Proterozoic Eon ) are defined  by   निरपेक्ष  age .
The TI-82 is a  graphing  calculator made by Texas  यंत्र  .
The TI-82 was designed in 1993 as a stripped down , more user friendly version of  the  TI-85  ,   और  as a replacement for the TI-81 .
It was the direct predecessor  of  the TI-83 .
It shares with the TI-85 a 6 MHz Zilog Z80 microprocessor .
Like the TI-81 , the TI-82 features a 96x64  पिक्सेल  display ,  और  the core feature set  of  the TI-81 with  अनेक   नई  features .
The cast of characters of The King of Fighters XI .
the  King of Fighters fighting  खेल  series , produced by SNK Playmore , includes  a  wide cast of characters , some  of  which are taken from other SNK games .
The story takes place in a fictional universe  in   जिससे  an annual series of 3-on-3 or  4-on-4  fighting tournaments  हैं  held .
The first game in the series  introduces  the initial main character of the series , Kyo Kusanagi ,  a  young Japanese fighter who is the heir to a powerful group of martial artists  having  pyrokinetic  abilities  .
Kyo fights  विरूद्ध  the Kusanagi clan 's  दुश्मनों  , his rival Iori Yagami , and the god Orochi and its human followers , among others .
the   पहला  four  खेल  in the series  revolve  about these fights  ,  while The  किंग  of Fighters '99 introduces a new story arc , revolving around K ' , a young man  जो   seeks  to destroy the mysterious NESTS organization because they kidnapped him at an early age and stripped him of his  पास्ट  memories , so that they could force him to  be   a  fighter under their control .
In The King of Fighters 2003 , a new  अक्षर   नामित  Ash Crimson enters the tournament , to  चोरी  the powers of the clans who sealed the Orochi  in  the past for an unknown reason .
A new group of  antagonists  ,  ज्ञात  as Those From the Past , also appears  in  the series ;  वे  want to obtain Orochi 's power for the  purpose  of giving it to their unknown master .
The plot and the characters  आए  from the Yamata no Orochi legend .
There  हैं  also several  वर्ण  in the games that  हैं  parodies or homages  to  several popular  दुश्मनी  ,  manga  , and films .
Merchandise based on the characters has also been released , including action figures and keychains .
The characters have garnered  तारीफ़  from several video game  publications   लिये  the quality of their designs and  movesets  .
Comments focused on the lack of improvements in some of the characters , but added that  the   रोस्टर   is  greatly diverse .
Whale Wars is a weekly American  documentary-style  reality television series that  premiered  on November 7 , 2008 on the Animal Planet cable channel .
The program follows Paul Watson , founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society , as he  और  the crew aboard  उनके  various vessels harass Japanese whalers off  the  coast of Antarctica .
On January  5   ,  2013 , Animal Planet  नवीनीकृत  the series for a  छठे  season .
The Harpy Eagle (  harpia  harpyja ) is a Neotropical species  of  eagle .
it  is sometimes known as the American Harpy Eagle to distinguish it from the Papuan Eagle which  is  sometimes known as the New Guinea Harpy Eagle or Papuan Harpy Eagle .
It is  the  largest and most powerful raptor  मिला  in the Americas , and  among  the largest extant  प्रजाति   of  eagles in the world .
It usually inhabits tropical lowland rainforests in  the  upper  (  emergent ) canopy layer  .
Destruction  of  its natural habitat has seen it vanish from many parts of its former range , and it is nearly extirpated in  सेंट्रल  America .
Biological classification , or scientific classification in biology , is a method of scientific taxonomy used to group  और  categorize organisms into groups such  as  genus  or  species .
ये  groups  हैं  known as taxa ( singular : taxon ) .
आधुनिक  biological classification has its  रूट  in the work of Carolus  लीनियस  , who grouped species according to shared physical characteristics .
These groupings have since been revised to improve consistency with the Darwinian principle of common descent .
With  the  introduction of the cladistic method in the late 20th century , phylogenetic taxonomy in which organisms are grouped based purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness , ignoring morphological similarity , has become common  in  some areas of  जीवविज्ञान  .
Molecular phylogenetics , which uses DNA sequences as data , has also driven  अनेक  recent revisions and is likely to continue doing so .
Biological classification  belongs  to the science of biological systematics .
Lennon 's signature
John Winston Ono Lennon , ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980  )  was an English musician , singer and songwriter  जो  rose to worldwide fame as a founder member of the Beatles , one of the most commercially successful and critically acclaimed acts in the history of  लोकप्रिय  music .
With Paul McCartney , he formed one of the most celebrated songwriting partnerships of  the  20th century .
Born and raised in Liverpool , as a teenager Lennon became involved in the skiffle craze  ;  his first band , the Quarrymen  ,  evolved into the Beatles  in  1960 .
As the group  disintegrated  towards the end of the decade ,  लेनन  embarked on a solo career that produced the critically acclaimed albums John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band and Imagine , and iconic songs such as `` Give  सलाम  a Chance `` and ``  imagine  `` .
After his marriage to Yoko Ono in 1969 , he changed his name to John Ono Lennon  .
Lennon disengaged himself from the music business in 1975  to  devote time to  उठाने  his infant son Sean ,  लकिन  re-emerged with Ono  in  1980 with the new album Double Fantasy .
he  was murdered three weeks after its release .
Lennon revealed a rebellious nature and acerbic wit in his music , writing , drawings , on film and in interviews .
विवादास्पद  through  उसके  political and peace activism , he moved  to  New York City in 1971 ,  जहाँ  his criticism of the Vietnam War resulted in a lengthy attempt by Richard Nixon 's administration to deport him , while some of his songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement .
As  of  2012 ,  लेनन  's solo album sales in  the  United States exceed 14 million  इकाई  , and as writer , co-writer or performer , he is responsible for 25 number-one  singles  on the US Hot  100  chart .
In  2002  , a BBC poll on the 100 Greatest Britons voted him eighth , and in 2008 , Rolling Stone ranked him the fifth-greatest singer of all time .
He  थी  posthumously  inducted  into  the  Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1987 and into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994 .
Statue of Rip van Winkle in Irvington  ,  New York , not far from `` Sunnyside `` , the home  of  Washington Irving
`` Rip Van Winkle '' is a short story by American author Washington Irving published in 1819 , as well as the name of the  स्टोरी  's  fictional  protagonist .
Written while Irving was living in Birmingham , England , it was part of a  संग्रहण   हकदार  The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon .
Although the story is set in New York 's Catskill Mountains , Irving later admitted , `` When I wrote the story , I had  never  been on the Catskills . ''
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards  ,  many significant  रिकॉर्ड  have been set .
This page only includes the competitive awards won  by  various  कलाकारों  .
This does not include the  विभिन्न  special awards that  हैं  presented by the National Academy of Recording  कला   और  Sciences such as Lifetime  उपलब्धि  Awards , Trustees Awards , Technical Awards or Legend Awards .
The page however does include other non-performance related Grammys ( known  as  the Craft & Production Fields ) that may  have   महरूम  presented to the artist ( s ) .
Pee-wee Herman is a comic fictional character created and portrayed by American comedian Paul Reubens  .
He is best known for his two television series and film series during the 1980s  .
The childlike Pee-wee  herman   अक्षर  developed as a stage act that quickly led to an HBO special in 1981 .
As the stage performance gained further popularity , Reubens took the character to motion picture with Pee-wee 's Big Adventure in 1985 , toning down the adult innuendo for the appeal of children .
This paved the way for Pee-wee 's Playhouse , an Emmy Award winning children  's  series that ran on CBS from 1986-1991 .
Another film , Big Top  pee-wee  , was released in 1988 .
Due to negative  मीडिया  attention following a scandal  in  1991 , Reubens decided to shelve his alter ego during the 1990s , and then gradually resurrected  it  during the following  दशक  .
It was at that time  कि  Reubens addressed plans to write a new  pee-wee  film , Pee-wee 's Playhouse : The Movie .
In June 2007  ,  Reubens appeared as Pee-wee Herman for the first  समय  since 1991 at Spike TV 's Guys ' Choice Awards  .
That '70s Show is an American television period sitcom that centers  on  the lives of a  समूह  of teenage  मित्रों  living in the fictional suburban town of Point Place  ,  Wisconsin , from May  17  , 1976 , to December 31 , 1979 .
It debuted on the Fox television network , first airing on August 23 , 1998 , running for eight consecutive seasons ,  और   concluding  with the 200th episode on May 18 , 2006 .
The main teenage cast members were Topher Grace , Mila Kunis , Ashton Kutcher , Danny Masterson , Laura  prepon  , and  wilmer  Valderrama .
The main adult  डाल  members were Debra  jo  Rupp , Kurtwood Smith , Don Stark and , during the first three seasons , Tanya Roberts  .
Kansas ( ) is a U.S. state located in the Midwestern United States .
It  is  named after the  कान्सास  River  जिससे  flows through it , which in turn was named after the Kansa Native American tribe , which inhabited the  क्षेत्रफल  .
The tribe 's name  (  natively kką : ze  )  is often said to mean `` people of the wind '' or `` people of the south wind , '' although this was probably not  the  term 's original meaning .
Residents of Kansas are called `` Kansans . ''
For thousands of years  कया  is now Kansas was home to numerous and diverse  देशी   अमरीकी  tribes .
Tribes in the Eastern part of the state generally lived in  गांवों  along the river valleys .
जनजातियों  in the Western part of the state were semi- nomadic and  hunted  large herds  of   बाइसन  .
Kansas was first settled by European  अमेरिकी   in  the 1830s  ,  but the pace of settlement accelerated in the 1850s , in the midst of political wars over the  गुलामी  issue .
जब  officially opened to settlement by the U.S. government in 1854 , abolitionist Free-Staters from New England and pro-slavery settlers  इससे  neighboring  मिसौरी  rushed to the territory to determine  if  Kansas would become a free state or a  स्लेव  state .
Thus , the area was a hotbed of violence and chaos in its early days as  ये  forces collided , and was known as Bleeding  कान्सास  .
The abolitionists eventually prevailed and on January 29 ,  1861  , Kansas entered the  संघ  as a free state .
After the Civil  युद्ध  , the population of Kansas grew rapidly , when  लहरें  of immigrants turned the prairie into farmland .
Today , Kansas is one of  the  most productive agricultural states , producing high yields  of   गेहूं  , sorghum and  sunflowers  .
Kansas is the  15th  most extensive and the 33rd  सबसे  populous  of  the 50 United States .
Psychology is an academic and applied discipline  कि  involves the scientific  पढ़ाई  of mental  कृत्यों  and  व्यवहार  .
Psychology has the immediate goal of  समझना  individuals and groups by  दोनो  establishing general  सिद्धान्त  and  researching  specific cases  ,   और   by  many accounts it ultimately aims to benefit society .
In this field , a professional or researcher is called a psychologist and can be classified as a social , behavioral , or cognitive scientist .
Psychologists attempt to understand the role of mental functions in individual and social behavior  ,   जबकि  also exploring  the  physiological and neurobiological processes that underlie certain cognitive functions and behaviors .
Psychologists explore concepts such as  बोध  , cognition , attention , emotion , phenomenology ,  प्रेरणा  , brain functioning  ,  personality , behavior , and  interpersonal  relationships .
Psychologists of diverse stripes also consider the unconscious  दिमाग  .
Psychologists  employ  empirical  विधि  to infer causal and  correlational  relationships between psychosocial variables .
In addition ,  or  in opposition , to employing empirical  और  deductive methods , some—especially clinical and  counseling  psychologists—at times rely upon symbolic interpretation and other inductive techniques .
Psychology has been described as a `` hub science '' , with psychological findings linking to  शोध   और  perspectives from the social sciences , natural sciences , medicine ,  और  the humanities , such as philosophy .
While psychological knowledge is often applied to the assessment  और  treatment of mental health problems , it is also directed towards understanding  और  solving problems in  अनेक  different spheres of human activity .
The majority of psychologists  हैं  involved in some kind of therapeutic role , practicing  in  clinical , counseling , or school settings .
Many do scientific research on a wide  दायरा  of topics  सम्बन्धित  to mental  प्रक्रियाओं  and behavior , and typically work in university psychology departments or teach in  अन्य  academic settings ( e.g. , medical schools  ,  hospitals ) .
Some are employed in industrial and organizational  जमावट   ,  or in  अन्य  areas such as human development and aging , sports , health , and  the   मीडिया  , as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law  .
Thomas Jefferson ( April  13  ,  1743  ( April 2 ,  1743  O.S. ) – July  4  , 1826 ) was an American Founding Father , the principal author of the Declaration of Independence ( 1776 ) and the third President of the United States ( 1801–1809 ) .
At the beginning of the American Revolution , he  परोसा  in the Continental Congress ,  representing  Virginia and then served as a  wartime  Governor of Virginia ( 1779–1781 )  .
Just after the war ended ,  इससे  mid-1784 Jefferson served as a diplomat , stationed in Paris .
In May 1785 , he became the  संयुक्त  States  मंत्री  to France .
Jefferson was the first United States  सचिव  of State ( 1790–1793 ) serving under President  जार्ज  Washington .
With his close friend  जेम्स   मैडिसन  he organized the Democratic-Republican Party , and subsequently resigned from Washington 's cabinet .
निर्वाचित  Vice President in 1796 ,  जब  he came  in  second to John Adams of the  federalists  , Jefferson  opposed  Adams  और  with  मैडिसन  secretly wrote the Kentucky and  वर्जिनिया  Resolutions , which attempted to nullify the Alien  और  Sedition Acts .
Elected president in what Jefferson called  the  Revolution  of  1800 , he oversaw the purchase  of  the vast Louisiana Territory from France ( 1803  )  , and sent  the  Lewis and Clark Expedition (  1804–1806  ) to explore the new west .
His second  पद  was beset with troubles at home , such as the failed treason  विचारण  of his former Vice President Aaron Burr .
With escalating trouble with Britain who was  चुनौतीपूर्ण  American neutrality and threatening shipping  at  sea , he tried economic warfare with his embargo laws which only damaged American trade  .
In 1803 , President Jefferson initiated a process of Indian tribal removal and relocation to the Louisiana Territory west of the Mississippi River ,  in  order to open lands for eventual American settlers  .
A  नेता  in the Enlightenment , Jefferson was a polymath  जो  spoke five languages fluently and was deeply interested in science , invention  ,  architecture ,  धर्म  and philosophy , interests that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency .
He designed  उसके  own large mansion on a 5,000 acre  वृक्षारोपण  near Charlottesville , Virginia  ,  which he  नामित  Monticello .
जबकि  not a notable orator , Jefferson was a skilled writer and corresponded with many influential  लोगों  in America and Europe throughout  उसके  adult life .
Though Jefferson  स्वामित्व  many slaves , he opposed the institution all his life and consequently treated and took care of them very well and  अपेक्षित  them to work no more than free farmers .
Since 1802 historians and others have been divided over  the  controversy of whether Jefferson was the father  of  one or more children belonging  to  Sally Hemings , a slave at Monticello . ''
Historians are also in  असहमति  with  कैसा  much Jefferson was committed  to   the  anti-slavery cause  .
In 1807 , President Jefferson signed into law a bill that banned the importation of slaves into the United States .
After Martha Jefferson , his  बीवी  of eleven years , died in 1782 , Jefferson  remained  a widower for the rest of his life  ;   उनके  marriage produced six children , of whom two survived to adulthood .
Though  जेफरसन  has been criticized by many modern day scholars over the issue of slavery , he remains rated as one  of  the greatest U.S. presidents .
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest  सोंग  written  by  Steven Van Zandt , produced by Van Zandt  और  Arthur Baker and recorded by Artists United Against Apartheid to convey opposition to the South African policy of  रंगभेद  .
The primary means of that opposition is to declare that all the artists involved  होता  refuse any and all offers to perform at Sun  नगर  , a resort which was located in Bantustan  of   bophuthatswana  , one of a number of internationally unrecognized supposed `` independent '' states  निर्मित   by  the South African government to forcibly relocate its black population .
This page is a list  of  characters in the Police Academy film and television  श्रेणी  .
Bill Russell won 11 championships with the Boston  सेल्टिक्स  .
This is a list of NBA players with most  championships   जीती  as a player .
The National Basketball Association ( NBA ) is a major professional basketball league  in  North  अमेरिका  .
It was  संस्थापित  in 1946  as  the Basketball Association of America ( BAA ) .
The league adopted its current name at the start of  the  when it merged  साथ  the  नेशनल  Basketball League ( NBL ) .
The NBA Finals is the championship series for the NBA and the conclusion of the sport 's postseason .
The winning team of the series receives  the  Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy  .
Players from  the  winning team usually receive championship rings from the team honoring their contribution .
however  , in some rare occasion  ,  the teams opted to gave other commemorative items , such  as  wrist watches , instead of rings .
The number of championships won by NBA superstars is often used as a measurement of  उनके  greatness .
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell holds the  रिकार्ड  for the most NBA championships won with 11 titles during his 13-year  playing  career .
He won  उसके  first  चैंपियनशिप  with the Boston Celtics in his rookie year .
Afterwards , he went  on  to win 10 championships in the next 12 years , including eight consecutive championships from 1959 to 1966 .
He won the last two championships in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach .
Russell 's teammate , Sam  जोन्स  , won 10 championships from  1959  to 1969 , the  दूसरी  most in NBA history .
Four Celtics players , Tom Heinsohn ,  K.  C. Jones , Satch  सैंडर्स  and John Havlicek , won  आठ  championships each .
Two other Celtics , Jim Loscutoff and Frank Ramsey  ,  won seven championships each .
Four players , Bob Cousy , Kareem Abdul-Jabbar , Michael Jordan  और  Scottie Pippen , won six championships each .
Jordan and Pippen are members of the  शिकागो  Bulls team who won three consecutive championships  twice  in the 1990s .
रॉबर्ट  Horry and  जॉन  Salley are the  तभी  players to have won the championships with three different  टीमों  .
Horry  जीती  seven championships with the Houston Rockets  ,  the Los Angeles Lakers and the  सैन   अंतोनियो   स्पर्स  , while Salley won four championships with the Detroit Pistons , the Bulls and the Lakers .
Frank Saul and Steve Kerr are the only players to win two championships with two different teams in consecutive seasons .
Saul won consecutive championships with the Rochester Royals and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s , while Kerr won consecutive championships with the Bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
Accuracy indicates proximity of measurement results  to  the true  मान  , precision to the repeatability , or reproducibility of the measurement
In the  फ़ील्ड  of science , engineering  ,  industry , and statistics  ,  the accuracy of a measurement system is the  उपाधि  of closeness  of  measurements of a quantity to that quantity 's actual ( true  )  value .
The precision of  a  measurement system , also called reproducibility or repeatability , is the degree to  जिससे  repeated measurements under unchanged conditions show the same results .
Although the two words reproducibility and repeatability can be  synonymous  in colloquial use , they are deliberately contrasted in the context of the  वैज्ञानिक  method .
A measurement system can be accurate but not precise , precise but not accurate , neither , or both .
For example  ,  if an experiment contains  a  systematic  गलती  , then increasing the sample size generally increases precision but does not  improve  accuracy .
The result would be a consistent yet inaccurate string of results from the  flawed  experiment  .
Eliminating the systematic error improves accuracy but does not change precision .
A measurement system is designated valid  if  it  is  both accurate and precise .
Related terms include bias ( non- random or directed  प्रभाव  caused by a factor or  कारकों  unrelated to  the  independent variable ) and error ( random  variability  ) .
The terminology is also applied to indirect measurements—that is , values obtained by a computational procedure from observed data .
In  जोड  to accuracy and precision , measurements may  भी  have a measurement resolution ,  जिससे  is the smallest change in  the  underlying physical quantity that produces a response in the measurement .
In the case of full reproducibility  ,  such as when rounding  a  number to a representable floating point number , the word precision  रै  a meaning not related to reproducibility .
For example , in the IEEE  754-2008  standard it means the number of bits in the significand ,  so  it is used as a measure  लिये  the relative accuracy with which  an  arbitrary number can  be   represented  .
Fuck in its literal meaning refers to the act of sexual intercourse .
It is an English word that is often used as a profanity ,  either  to  denote  disdain or as an intensifier .
The origin of the word is obscure .
It is usually considered  to   be   पहला  attested to around 1475 , but it may be considerably older .
in  modern usage , fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be used in the position of a  संज्ञा  , a verb ,  an  adjective or an adverb .
There are many common phrases which make use of the word , as well as a number of compounds incorporating it , such  as  motherfucker .
Animated , color-coded  मैप  showing the  विभिन्न  continents and regions .
Depending on the convention and  मॉडल  ,  कुछ  continents may be consolidated or subdivided  :  for example , Eurasia is most often subdivided into Europe and Asia (  रेड  shades ) , while North and  दक्षिण  America are sometimes recognized as one American continent ( green shades ) .
a  continent is one of several  बहुत  large landmasses on Earth .
They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria , with up to seven regions commonly  regarded  as continents—they are ( from largest in size to smallest ) : Asia , Africa , North America , South America , Antarctica , Europe , and Australia .
in  geology , continents are described by means of tectonic plates .
थाली  tectonics is the process and study of the movement , collision and division of continents , earlier known as continental drift .
Biker Boyz is a 2003  फिल्मी  about a  समूह  of underground motorcycle drag racers .
It stars Laurence Fishburne , Djimon Hounsou , Derek Luke  ,  Meagan Good  ,  and Larenz Tate and is written and directed  by  Reggie Rock Bythewood .
It also features Lisa  bonet  , Orlando Jones ,  बच्चा  Rock and  वैनेसा  Bell Calloway .
For  the  Steel Panther song , see Feel the Steel .
Community property is  a  marital property regime  कि  originated in  सिविल  law jurisdictions and is now also found in some common law jurisdictions  .
The  राज्य  of  the  United States that recognize community property are primarily in the West ; it was inherited from Mexico 's ganancial community system , which itself  थी  inherited from Spanish law ( a Roman -derived civil  विधि  system ) and ultimately from the  visigoths  .
While under Spanish rule Louisiana adopted  the  ganancial community system of acquests  और  gains , which replaced the traditional French community of movables and acquests in its civil law system .
Map of the United States with community property states highlighted in red  .
In addition to the highlighted states , Alaska is a separate property state that permits  युगल  to opt into a community property arrangement .
in  a community property jurisdiction ,  सबसे  property acquired during the marriage ( except for gifts or inheritances ) —the community , or communio bonorum—is owned jointly  by  both  spouses  and is divided upon  तलाक  , annulment or death  .
Joint  स्वामित्व  is automatically presumed by law in the  अनुपस्थिति  of specific evidence that would point to a  contrary  conclusion for a particular piece of  प्रॉपर्टी   .
Division of community  प्रॉपर्टी  may take place by item  ,  by  splitting  all  वस्तुएं  or by value .
In some jurisdictions  ,  such as  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , a 50/50 division of community property is strictly mandated by statute , meaning that the focus then shifts to whether particular items are to be classified as community or separate property .
In other jurisdictions , such as Texas , a divorce court may decree an `` equitable distribution `` of community property , which may result in an unequal division of such .
In  non-community  property states property may be divided by equitable distribution .
generally  speaking , the property that each partner brings into  the  marriage or receives by gift ,  bequest   or  devise during marriage  is  called separate property ( i.e. , not community property ) .
See division of property  .
Division of community debts may not be  the  same as division of community property .
For example , in California , community property is  जरूरी  to be  विभाजित  `` equally ''  जबकि  community  कर्ज़  is required  to  be divided `` equitably ''  .
Property that is owned by  एक  spouse before  the  marriage is the separate property of that spouse , unless the property is `` transmuted  ''  into community property .
The rules for this  vary   इससे  jurisdiction to jurisdiction  .
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge waving to the  भीड  at The Mall shortly after the  विवाह  .
The wedding of Prince William , Duke of Cambridge , and Catherine Middleton took place on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey in London .
The groom ,  प्रिंस  William , Duke of Cambridge , is the eldest son of Charles , Prince  of  Wales , and is second  in  the line of succession  to   the  British Throne and the thrones  of  fifteen other Commonwealth realms .
The bride , Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is the eldest of three children of Michael  और  Carole Middleton of Bucklebury , Berkshire .
The Dean of Westminster , John Hall , presided at the service ; the Archbishop of Canterbury , Rowan Williams , conducted  the  marriage ; Richard  chartres  , the Bishop of London , preached the sermon  ;  and a reading was given by the  बहू  's  bhai  , James .
William 's best man was his brother , Prince Harry , while the bride 's sister ,  पिप्पा  , was maid of honour .
The ceremony was attended by the bride  's  and groom  's  families , as well as many  विदेशी  royals , diplomats , and the couple  's  chosen personal guests  .
After the ceremony , the couple made the traditional appearance on the balcony of Buckingham  राजमहल  .
As Prince William was not the  वारिस  apparent to  the  throne , the wedding was not a  पूरा  state occasion and many details  यहूद  left to the couple  to  decide , such  as  much of the guest  सूची  of about 1,900 .
Prince  विलियम  and Kate Middleton met in 2001 .
Their engagement on 20 October 2010  थी  announced on 16 November 2010 .
The build-up to the wedding and the occasion itself attracted much media attention ,  होने   compared  in  अनेक  ways with the 1981 marriage of  विलियम  's  अभिभावक  .
The occasion  थी   a  public holiday  in  the United Kingdom and featured many  ceremonial  aspects ,  सहित   उपयोग  of the state carriages  और   भूमिकाएँ  for the Foot Guards and Household Cavalry .
Events were  आयोजित  around  the  Commonwealth to mark the wedding ;  संगठनों  and hotels held  कार्यक्रम  across Canada , over 5,000 street parties were held throughout the United  किंगडम  , and one million people lined  the  route between Westminster Abbey and Buckingham Palace .
The ceremony was  viewed   सजीव  by tens of  लाखो  more around the world ,  सहित  72 million on the YouTube Royal Channel  .
In  the  United Kingdom , television audiences peaked at 26.3 million  दर्शक  ,  साथ  a total  of  36.7 million  watching  part of  the  coverage  .
वैनेसा  Joy Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born November 9 , 1980 ) is  an  American television personality ,  टेलीविज़न  host , fashion model , and  अभिनेत्री  .
minnillo  was also named Miss Teen USA in 1998 .
वो  has been a New York -based correspondent for Entertainment  tonight  and hosted Total Request Live  on  MTV .
A hand  (  med . / lat  .   :  manus , pl  .  manūs ) is a prehensile , multi- fingered extremity located at the  समाप्त  of an arm or forelimb of primates and humans ,  chimpanzees  , monkeys , and lemurs  .
a  few other vertebrates such as the koala ( which has two opposable thumbs on  प्रत्येक  `` hand '' and fingerprints remarkably similar to human fingerprints ) are often described  as  having either `` hands ''  or  `` paws '' on their front limbs  .
Hands are  the  main  structures   लिये  physically manipulating  the  environment , used for both gross motor skills ( such as grasping a large object ) and fine motor skills (  ऐसे  as picking up a small pebble ) .
The fingertips  contain  some of the densest  क्षेत्रों  of nerve endings on  the  body , are the  richest  source of tactile feedback , and have the greatest positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands  .
Like other paired  अंगों   (  eyes , feet , legs ) , each hand is dominantly controlled by the opposing brain  गोलार्ध  , so that handedness , or the preferred hand  चुनाव  for single-handed activities such as writing with a pencil , reflects individual brain functioning .
Some evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage of  अंक  on the forelimb more  generally  — for example , in the context  of  whether the three digits of the  बर्ड  hand involved the same homologous loss of  दो  digits as in the dinosaur hand .
The human hand has 27 bones , not including  the  sesamoid bones which number  varies  between people .
14 of which  हैं  the phalanges ( proximal , intermediate and distal ) of the fingers .
The metacarpals are the bones that connects the fingers  और  the wrist .
Each human hand has 5 metacarpals and 8 carpal bones .
Too Cool was a professional wrestling tag team and  पूर्व  faction most notably active in World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment between 1998 and 2001 and for a short time in 2004 .
Basic digital alarm clock without a radio .
The mark in the top-left of the  प्रदर्शक  indicates that the time is 4:00pm  ,  not 4:00am  .
A  1969  radio alarm clock ( Sony Digimatic 8FC-59W ) with an early  mechanical-digital  display .
A digital clock is a type of clock that displays the time digitally , i.e . in numerals or other symbols ,  as  opposed to an analog clock , where the time is indicated by the positions  of  rotating hands .
Digital clocks are  प्रायः  associated with electronic drives , but the `` digital '' description  refers  only to the  प्रदर्शक  , not to the drive mechanism .
(   दोनो  analog and digital clocks can  be  driven either mechanically or electronically ,  लकिन  ``  घटीयंत्र   ''  mechanisms with digital displays are  विरल  . )
The biggest digital clock is the Lichtzeitpegel ( `` Light Time Level '' )  on  the television tower Rheinturm Düsseldorf , Germany .
Family  guy  creator Seth  macfarlane  also provides the voices  of  Peter Griffin  ,  Stewie Griffin ,  ब्रायन  Griffin , and Glenn Quagmire .
Family Guy is  an  American animated sitcom that features five main voice actors , and  numerous  regular cast and recurring guest stars .
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane , Alex Borstein , Seth Green , Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert after the first  ऋतु  ) and Mike Henry and now ,  the  new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton ,  आदम  West , John G. Brennan , Nicole Sullivan and  जेनिफर   tilly  , and repeat guest stars include  फिलिस  Diller , Charles Durning , Rush Limbaugh , and Phil LaMarr .
Many  डाल  members  provide   आवाज़ें  for multiple characters .
The voice  अभिनेताओं  , in portraying the various character personalities on the show , draw inspiration from celebrities and  पॉप  culture .
Family Guy characters have been played by more than one actor , after members of the show left  the  series or  था  conflicting obligations .
Kunis was nominated for  an  Annie Award for voicing Meg  griffin   in  the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has also won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and an  एनी  Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production , though no  अन्य  cast member has won an award for  उनके  work on the series .
the   पाँच  sets of the board game Monopoly depicted here show the evolution of the game 's  कलाकृति  and designs in the United States from 1935–2005 .
The history  of   the  board  खेल  Monopoly can be traced back to the early 20th century .
The earliest known design was by the American , Elizabeth Magie  ,  patented in  1904  but  मौजूदा  as early  as  1902 .
Magie 's original intent was to publish a board game to illustrate an economic principle , namely the Georgist concept of a single land value  कर  .
A  श्रेणी  of board games were developed from 1906 through the 1930s that involved the buying and selling of land and the development of that land .
By 1934 , a board game had been created  much  like the version of Monopoly sold by Parker Brothers and  इसके  related  कंपनियाँ  through the rest of the 20th century , and into the 21st .
अनेक  people , mostly in the  midwestern  United States and near the East  coast  , contributed to the game 's design and evolution .
By the  1970s  , the idea that the game had been  निर्मित  solely by Charles Darrow  था  become popular folklore ; it was printed in  the  game 's  निर्देश  for many years , in a  1974  book devoted to Monopoly , and was  cited  in a general book about toys even as recently as 2007 .
Even a guide to family games published for Reader 's Digest in 2003 only gave  क्रेडिट  to Darrow and Elizabeth Magie , erroneously stating that Magie 's original game was created in the  1800s  , and not acknowledging any of the game 's development between Magie 's creation  of  the game , and the  eventual  publication by Parker Brothers .
Also in the 1970s , Professor Ralph Anspach , who had himself published a board game intended to illustrate  the  principles of both monopolies and  विश्वास   busting  , fought Parker Brothers and its then parent company , General  मिलों  , over the trademarks  of   the  Monopoly board game  .
Through the research of Anspach and  अन्य  , much of the early history of the game  थी  `` rediscovered '' .
Anspach confronted Maxine Brady , author of the 1974 book The Monopoly Book  :   रणनीति  and Tactics of the World 's Most Popular Game over the  वास्तविक  history of the game on Barry Farber 's New  यॉर्क  City talk show in 1975 .
क्युकी  of the lengthy court process , including appeals , the legal status of Parker Brothers ' trademarks on the game was not settled until 1985 .
The game 's name remains a registered trademark of Parker Brothers , as do its specific design elements .
At the conclusion of the court case , the game 's logo and graphic design elements  became  part of  a  larger Monopoly  ब्रांड  , licensed by Parker Brothers ' parent companies onto a variety  of  items through the present day .
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game 's early history in the 1970s and 1980s , and several books and journal articles on the subject , Hasbro ( Parker Brothers ' current parent company ) did not acknowledge any of the game  's  history before Charles Darrow on its  आधिकारिक  Monopoly website as recently as June 2012 .
Nor did Hasbro acknowledge  anyone  other than Darrow  in  materials  प्रकाशित   or  sponsored  by  them , at least as  recently  as 2006 .
International tournaments , first held in the early 1970s , continue to the present ,  साथ  the next world championship likely scheduled for 2013 .
Starting in  1985  , a new  पीढी   of  spin-off board games and card games appeared on both sides of  the  Atlantic Ocean .
In 1989 , the first of many video game and  कंप्यूटर  game editions was published .
Since 1994 , many official variants of the game , based on locations other than Atlantic City , New Jersey ( the official U.S. setting ) or London ( the official Commonwealth setting  ,  excepting Canada ) , have been published by Hasbro or its licensees .
In 2008 , Hasbro permanently changed the color scheme and some of the gameplay of the  मानक  U.S . Edition of the game to match the UK  संस्करण  , although the U.S. standard edition maintains the Atlantic City property names  .
Hasbro also modified the official logo to give the ``  mr  . Monopoly  ''  character a 3-D computer-generated look , which has since been  अपनाया  by licensees USAopoly , Winning  चालें  and Winning Solutions .
And  हास्ब्रो  has also been including the Speed  die  ,  introduced   in   2006  's Monopoly : The Mega Edition  by  Winning Moves Games , in versions produced directly  by  Hasbro ( such as the 2009 Championship  संस्करण  ) .
In baseball  ,  a sacrifice fly is a batted  बॉल  that satisfies  चार  criteria:
There are  कम   than  two outs when the ball is hit .
The ball is hit to the  आउटफील्ड  ( fair or foul ) , or to infield foul territory .
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running  in  the outfield , or foul territory ) catches the ball on the fly (  alternatively  if the batter would have been out if not  लिये  an error or if the outfielder drops the  बॉल  and another runner is put out )  .
A runner who is already on base scores on the play .
It is called a  ``  sacrifice  ''  fly because the batter presumably intends to cause a teammate to score a  चलाएं  , while sacrificing his own ability to do so .
Minnesota (  )  is a U.S. state located in the Midwestern United  राज्य  .
Minnesota was carved out of the eastern half of the Minnesota Territory and admitted to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11  ,  1858 .
Known as the `` Land of 10,000 Lakes '' , the state 's name comes from  a  Dakota word for `` sky-tinted water '' .
Those waters ,  साथ  with forests , parks , and wilderness areas , offer residents and tourists a variety of outdoor recreational opportunities .
Minnesota is the 12th most extensive and the 21st most populous of the U.S. states .
Nearly 60 % of its residents live in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area  (  known as the `` Twin Cities '' )  ,  the center  of  transportation , business , industry , education , government and home to an internationally known arts community .
The remainder of the state consists of western prairies now given over to intensive agriculture ; deciduous forests in the southeast , now cleared , farmed and settled ; and the less populated North Woods , used for  खनन  , forestry  ,  and recreation .
Minnesota  is  known for its  अपेक्षाकृत  mixed social and political orientations , and has a high rate of civic participation and voter turnout  .
Minnesota ranks among the healthiest states , and has a highly  साक्षर  population .
The large majority of  निवासियों  are of Scandinavian  और  German descent .
The state is known as a center of  scandinavian  American culture .
Ethnic diversity has increased in recent decades  .
Substantial influxes of Asian , African ,  और  Latin American  आप्रवासियों  have joined the descendants of European settlers and  the  original Native American inhabitants .
Grants are non-repayable  निधि  by  एक  party ( grant  makers   )  , often a government  विभाग  , corporation , foundation or trust , to a , often ( but not always ) a nonprofit entity , educational institution , business or an individual .
In order to receive a grant , some  रूप  of `` Grant Writing '' often referred to as either a proposal or  an  application is usually required .
Most  अनुदान  are made to fund a specific  प्रोजेक्ट  and  आवश्यकता  some level  of  compliance and  रिपोर्टिंग  .
The grant writing process involves an applicant submitting a  प्रस्ताव  ( or submission ) to a potential funder , either on the applicant 's own initiative or in response to a Request for Proposal from the funder .
Other grants can be given to individuals , such as victims of natural disasters or  individuals  who seek to open  a  small business .
Sometimes grant makers require grant seekers to have some  रूप  of tax-exempt status , be a registered  nonprofit   संगठन   or  a local government .
For example , tiered funding for a  फ्रीवे  are very large  अनुदान  negotiated at government  नीति  level .
However smaller grants may be provided by a government agency ( e.g . municipal government ) .
Project-related funding involving governments , business , communities , and individuals is often arranged by  अनुप्रयोग  either in  लिखने  or online .
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope , 59Co . 28 radioisotopes have been characterized with  the  most stable being 60Co with a half-life of 5.2714 years  ,  57Co with a half-life of 271.79 days  ,  56Co with a half-life of  77.27   दिनों  , and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 days .
All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives that are less than 18 hours and the majority of these have half-lives that are less than 1 second .
This element also has 11 meta states , all of which have half-lives less than 15 minutes .
The isotopes of cobalt range in atomic weight from 47Co to 75Co .
The primary decay mode for isotopes with atomic  द्रव्यमान   ईकाई  values less than that of  the  most abundant stable  समस्थानिक  , 59Co , is electron capture and the primary mode of decay for those of greater  than  59 atomic mass units is beta decay .
The primary decay products before 59Co are iron isotopes and the primary products after are nickel isotopes .
Standard atomic mass : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
Who Moved My Cheese ?
An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in  अपना  Work  और  in Your Life , published in 1998 , is a motivational book by Spencer Johnson written in the style  of  a parable or business fable .
It describes change in one 's work and  जीवन  , and four typical reactions  to  said change by  दो  mice  और  two ``  littlepeople  '' ,  दौरान  their hunt for cheese .
A New York Times business bestseller since release  ,  Who Moved  my  Cheese ?
remained on the list for almost five years and spent over 200 weeks on Publishers Weekly 's hardcover nonfiction list  .
It  रै  sold more than 26 million copies  विश्वव्यापी  in 37 languages and remains to be one of the best-selling business  किताबे  .
Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev ( – September 11 , 1971 )  led  the Soviet Union during part of the Cold War .
He served as First Secretary of  the  Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1953 to 1964 , and as Chairman of the Council of Ministers , or Premier , from 1958 to 1964 .
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial  de-stalinization  of the Soviet Union , for backing the progress of the early Soviet space program ,  और   लिये  several relatively  उदार  reforms in areas  of  domestic policy .
Khrushchev 's party colleagues removed him from power in 1964 , replacing him with  लियोनिद  Brezhnev as  पहला  Secretary and Alexei Kosygin as Premier .
Khrushchev was born in the Russian  गाँव  of Kalinovka in 1894 , close  to   the  present-day border between Russia and Ukraine .
He was employed as  a  metalworker in his youth , and  दौरान  the Russian Civil War was a political commissar .
With the help of  lazar  Kaganovich , he worked his  रास्ता  up the Soviet hierarchy .
He supported Joseph Stalin 's purges  ,  and approved thousands of arrests .
In 1939 , Stalin sent him  to  govern Ukraine , and he continued the purges there .
During what was  ज्ञात  in the Soviet Union as the Great Patriotic War ( Eastern Front of World War II ) ,  khrushchev  was  again  a commissar , serving as an intermediary  between  Stalin and his generals .
Khrushchev was present at the bloody defense of Stalingrad ,  a  fact  he  took great  अभिमान  in throughout his life .
After the war , he returned to Ukraine before being recalled  to  Moscow as one of Stalin  's  close  advisers  .
In the power struggle triggered by  स्टालिन  's death  in  1953 , Khrushchev , after several  सालो  , emerged  विजयी  .
On February  25  , 1956 , at the 20th Party  कॉंग्रेस  , he delivered  the  `` Secret Speech , '' denouncing Stalin 's purges  और  ushering in a less repressive  era  in  the  Soviet Union .
His domestic policies , aimed at  bettering  the lives of ordinary  नागरिकों  , were often ineffective , especially in the area of agriculture .
Hoping eventually to rely on missiles for national defense , Khrushchev ordered major cuts in conventional forces .
Despite the cuts , Khrushchev 's rule saw the tensest years  of  the Cold War , culminating in the Cuban Missile Crisis .
Some of  khrushchev  's policies were seen  as   erratic  , particularly by his emerging rivals , who quietly rose in strength  और  deposed him in October 1964 .
he  did not suffer  the  deadly fate of some previous losers of Soviet power struggles , but was pensioned off with an apartment in Moscow and a  dacha  in the countryside .
His lengthy memoirs were smuggled to the West and published  in   भाग  in 1970 .
Khrushchev died in 1971 of heart disease .
Upper gastrointestinal ( GI  )  bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the upper gastrointestinal tract  .
The anatomic cut-off  लिये   अपर  GI  bleeding   is  the ligament of Treitz , which connects the fourth  portion  of the duodenum to the  diaphragm  near the  splenic  flexure of the  कोलन   .
Upper GI bleeds are considered medical emergencies , and require admission to hospital  लिये  urgent diagnosis and management .
Due to advances in  medications  and endoscopy  ,  upper GI hemorrhage is now usually  treated  without surgery .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based on UN 2010 projections ( red , orange , green  )  and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black )  .
Actual  अंकित  population figures are in blue .
According to the  उच्चतम  estimate , the world population  may  rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate , it may decline to 6 billion .
The world population is the total number of living humans on Earth  .
As of today , it is estimated to number billion by the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ) .
the  USCB estimates that the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12  ,  2012 .
according  to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund , it reached this milestone on October 31 , 2011 .
The world population has  अनुभवी  continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350 , when it stood at around  370  million .
The highest rates of growth  –  global population increases  ऊपर  1.8  %  per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s , and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
the  growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963 , and  था  declined to 1.1 %  by   2011   .
Total annual births were highest in  the  late 1980s at about 138 million , and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million , while  मौतों  number 56 million per year , and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a  जारी  increase in  जनसांख्यिकी  in the near future ( but a steady  मनाही   in  the population growth rate ) , with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth , stagnation , or even overall decline in the  वैश्विक  population by 2150  .
कुछ  analysts have  questioned  the sustainability of further world population growth , citing the  growing  pressures on the environment , global food supplies ,  और  energy resources .
Philips Lumileds Lighting Company is the manufacturer of a wide range  of  high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ) .
It is a now  a  fully owned division of Philips  lighting   .
Knuckle mnemonic  लिये  the number of days in each month of the  gregorian  Calendar .
Each projecting knuckle represents a 31-day month  .
A mnemonic (  ,  with a silent `` m '' ) , or mnemonic device , is any learning technique that aids information  स्तंभन  .
mnemonics  aim to translate information into a form that the human brain can retain better than its  असली  form .
Even the process of applying this conversion might already aid the transfer of information to long-term memory .
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists and in  auditory   रूप  , such as short poems , acronyms , or memorable phrases , but mnemonics can also be for other types of  सूचना  and in visual or kinesthetic forms .
उनके   उपयोग  is based on the observation that the human  दिमाग  more easily remembers spatial ,  निजी  , surprising , physical  ,  sexual , humorous , or otherwise 'relatable ' information , rather than more  अमूर्त   or  impersonal forms  of  information .
The word mnemonic is derived from the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός (  mnēmonikos  ) , meaning `` of  मेमोरी  ''  और  is related to Mnemosyne ( `` remembrance  ''  ) ,  the  name of the goddess  of  memory in  यूनानी  mythology .
Both  of  these  शब्द  are derived from μνήμη ( mnēmē ) , `` remembrance , memory '' .
Mnemonics in antiquity were most  प्रायः  considered in the context of what  is  today known as the Art  of  memory .
Ancient Greeks and Romans distinguished between two types of memory : the  'natural  ' memory and the 'artificial ' memory .
The former is inborn , and is the one that everyone uses automatically and without thinking .
The  कृत्रिम   मेमोरी  in contrast has to be trained  और  developed through the learning and practicing  of  a variety of mnemonic techniques .
Mnemonic systems are special techniques or strategies consciously used to improve memory , it helps employ information already stored in long-term memory to make memorization an easier task .
President  बुश  signing the  no  Child Left Behind Act at Hamilton H.S . in Hamilton  ,  Ohio  .
The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 (  nclb   )  is a United States Act  of  Congress that is a reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act , which included Title I , the government 's flagship aid program  लिये  disadvantaged students .
NCLB supports standards-based education reform based on the premise that setting high standards and establishing measurable goals can improve individual outcomes in education  .
The Act requires states  to  develop assessments  in  basic skills .
States must give these assessments to all students at select grade levels in order to receive  संघीय  school funding .
The Act does not assert a national achievement standard ; standards are set by each individual state .
NCLB expanded the federal role in public education  through  annual testing , annual academic progress , report cards , teacher qualifications , and funding changes .
The bill passed in the U.S. Congress with bipartisan  support  .
Dodge B Series utility  circa  1950 , driven by  अल्बर्ट  Namatjira
a   पिकअप  truck or pick-up , often simply referred to as a pickup , is a light motor vehicle with an open-top , rear cargo area ( bed ) .
In North America , the term pickup is used for light trucks with a  हल्का  duty chassis and factory built , integrated bed  ,   as  well as for coupé utility vehicles , often based on a personal car chassis , but also  प्रायः  on a special dedicated chassi  लिये   ऐसे   उपयोग  .
कुछ  countries have their own  शर्तें   समान  to pickup , such as ute  in  Australia and New Zealand ,  or  bakkie in South Africa .
Large pickup trucks are somewhat rare in Europe , where vans and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles .
This  15th-century  depiction of Charlemagne and Pope Adrian I shows a well-bred medieval horse with arched neck , refined head and  सुरुचिपूर्ण  gait .
Horses  in  the Middle Ages  differed  in  आकार  , build and  नस्ल  from the modern horse , and were , on average , smaller .
They were also more central to society than their modern counterparts , being essential for war , agriculture , and transport .
Consequently ,  विशिष्ट  types of horse  विकसित  , many of which have no modern equivalent .
While an understanding  of  modern horse breeds and equestrianism is  vital  for any analysis of the medieval  घोड़ा  , researchers  भी  need to consider documentary ( both written and pictorial )  और  archaeological  प्रमाण  .
Horses in  the  Middle Ages were rarely differentiated by breed , but rather  by  use  .
इस  led them to be described ,  लिये  example ,  as  `` chargers  ``  ( war horses ) , `` palfreys `` ( riding horses  )  , cart horses or packhorses .
Reference is also given to their place of origin , such as `` Spanish horses , '' but whether this referred to one breed  or   अनेक  is unknown .
Another difficulty arising during any study of  मध्यकालीन  documents or literature is the flexibility of the medieval languages , where several words can be used for one thing ( or , conversely , several objects are referred to  by  one word ) .
Words such as ' courser ' and 'charger '  हैं  used interchangeably (  भी  within one document ) , and  जहाँ  one epic may speak disparagingly of  a  rouncey , another praises its skill and swiftness .
Significant technological advances in equestrian equipment , often introduced from other cultures , allowed for significant changes in  दोनो  warfare and agriculture .
In particular , improved designs for the solid-treed saddle as well  as  the arrival of the stirrup , horseshoe and horse collar were significant advances in medieval society .
Consequently ,  the  assumptions and theories developed by historians  हैं  not definitive , and debate still rages on many  मुद्दे   ,  such as the breeding or size of the horse , and  a  number of sources  जरूर   be  consulted in order  to  understand the breadth  of  the  विषय  .
The Music Man is a musical with book , music  ,  and lyrics by Meredith Willson  ,  based  on  a story by Willson and Franklin  लेसी  .
The plot concerns con man Harold  हिल  , who poses as a boys ' band  आयोजक  and leader  और  sells  बैंड  instruments and uniforms to naive townsfolk before skipping town with the cash .
In  नदी   नगर  , Iowa , prim librarian and piano teacher Marian  paroo  sees through him  ,  but  जब  Hill helps her younger brother overcome his  भय  of social interactions due to his lisp ,  marian  begins to fall in love with Harold .
Harold , in turn  गिरना  for  marian  , risks being caught to win her .
In 1957 , the show became a  hit  on Broadway , winning five Tony Awards , including Best Musical , and running for 1,375  प्रदर्शन  .
The cast album won the  पहला  Grammy Award for `` Best Original Cast Album  ''  and was number one on the Billboard charts for 245 weeks .
The show 's success led to revivals and a  लोकप्रिय  1962 film adaptation  और  a  2003  television remake .
It frequently is produced by both professional and amateur theater companies .
Surveyor 's  व्हील
A surveyor 's wheel , also called a  clickwheel   ,  hodometer  ,  waywiser , trundle wheel , measuring wheel ,  or  perambulator is a device for measuring distance .
Largest non-polar deserts
बालू  dunes in the Rub ' al Khali ( ``  खाली  quarter '' ) of Saudi Arabia  .
Makhtesh Ramon ,  negev  desert ,  इसराईल
A desert is a landscape or region of land that is very dry because of low rainfall  amounts  (  वर्षण  ) , often has little coverage by plants , and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside areas .
Deserts can also be described as  क्षेत्रों  where more water is lost by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation  .
Desert plants must have special adaptations to survive with this little water .
रेगिस्तान  generally receive less than 25 cm of rain ( precipitation ) each year .
Semideserts or steppes are regions which receive between and .
In the Köppen climate classification system , deserts are classed as BWh ( hot desert ) or BWk  (  temperate desert ) .
In the Thornthwaite climate classification system , deserts would be classified as arid megathermal climates .
संसार  War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November  1918  .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World  युद्ध  II in 1939 , and the  पहला  World War or World  युद्ध  I  thereafter   .
It  शामिल  all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances  :  the Allies ( based  on  the Triple Entente of the  संयुक्त  Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary  और  Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had  लिया  the  अप्रिय  against the agreement ,  इटली  did not  डालें  into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war :  इटली  , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately ,  अधिक  than  70  million military personnel , including 60 million  europeans  , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were  मारे  , largely because  of  technological advancements that led to enormous increases in  the  lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or  गतिशीलता  .
It was the fifth-  deadliest  conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such as revolutions  in  many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of  यूरोपीय  .
More immediately  ,  the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand  of   ऑस्ट्रिया  , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary  ,  on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a  राजनयिक  crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over  the  previous decades were invoked  .
Within weeks , the major powers were at war and , via their colonies ,  the  conflict soon spread around the  संसार  .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of  सर्बिया  .
While the Russians mobilised , the  germans  invaded neutral Belgium and  ध्वज  on the  रास्ता   to  France , providing a  casus  belli for Britain 's declaration of war against  जर्मनी  .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a  halt—the  so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled  into  a static battle of  अपघर्षण  with a  गर्त  line that changed  छोटी  until  1917   .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was  कामयाब  against the Austro-Hungarians  ,  but was stopped  in  its invasion of East Prussia by the  germans  .
In November the Ottoman Empire  joined  the  युद्ध  , opening up  fronts  in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
इटली  and Bulgaria went to war in  1915  and Romania in 1916 .
in  Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and  a  subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western  सामने  , the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries  ,  agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in victory for the Allies .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts ,  as  the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight  a   कुल  war .
By the end of the  युद्ध  , four  प्रमुख   इम्पीरियल  powers—the German , Russian ,  austro-hungarian  and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great  राशि  of territory , while the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The  मैप  of central Europe was redrawn into several smaller  राज्य  .
The League of Nations was  formed  in the hope of preventing another such conflict .
The European  राष्ट्रवाद  spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat  और   समस्याएं  with  the  Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be  कारकों  contributing to World War II .
``  लड़कियों  Just Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979 song originally written by Robert Hazard and made famous by singer  cyndi  Lauper .
It was the first major single released by Lauper as a solo artist and the lead-off single from her debut album She 's So  असामान्य  .
Lauper’s version gained recognition  as  a feminist anthem  और  promoted by an award-winning video .
It has been covered on either an album or in live  कॉन्सर्ट  by over 30 other artists  .
The  सिंगल  was Lauper 's breakthrough hit , reaching # 2 on  the  Billboard Hot 100 and becoming a worldwide hit throughout late 1983 and early 1984 .
It  remains  one of Lauper 's signature songs and was a widely popular  सोंग  during the  era  of its  रिलीज  , the 1980s .
The `` Rolling  स्टोन  &  एमटीवी  : '100 Greatest Pop Songs ' : 1-50 '' , `` Rolling Stone : `` The 100 Top Music  वीडियो  '' ''  और  the `` VH1 : 100 Greatest Videos '' lists ranked the song  at  # 22 , # 39 and # 45 , respectively .
The song received a Grammy Award nomination for Record of the Year  और  Best  मादा  Pop Vocal Performance .
View of defibrillator electrode position and placement .
Defibrillation is a common treatment for  life-threatening  cardiac dysrhythmias  ,  ventricular  fibrillation  , and pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical energy to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator .
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle , terminates the dysrhythmia , and  allows  normal sinus  लय  to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker , in the sinoatrial node of the heart .
Defibrillators can be external , transvenous , or implanted , depending on the type of device used or needed .
Some external  इकाई  , known as automated external  defibrillators  (  aeds  ) , automate the  निदान  of treatable rhythms , meaning that lay responders or  bystanders  are  समर्थ   to  use them successfully with little , or in some cases no training at all .
The  केटो  Institute is  an  American libertarian think tank headquartered in Washington  ,  D.C .
It was founded  as  the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray Rothbard , Ed Crane and Charles Koch , chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the conglomerate Koch Industries , Inc. .
In July 1976 , the name was changed  to  the Cato Institute .
According to the 2011 Global Go To Think  टैंक  Index , Cato is the 6th most influential US based think tank ,  रैंकिंग  3rd in Economic Policy  और  2nd in Social Policy  .
The Institute 's stated mission is `` to increase the understanding of public  नीतियों  based on the principles of limited  सरकारी  , free  बाज़ार  , individual liberty , and peace .
The Institute will use the most effective means to originate , advocate , promote , and disseminate applicable policy proposals that create free , open , and civil societies in the United States and  throughout  the world . ''
Cato scholars were critical of George W. Bush 's Republican administration  (  2001–2009 ) on several issues  ,   सहित  the Iraq War ,  सिविल  liberties , education , agriculture ,  उर्जा  policy  ,  and excessive  सरकारी  spending .
On other issues , they supported Bush administration initiatives , most notably health care , Social Security , global warming , tax policy , and  आव्रजन   .
During the  2008  U.S. presidential election  ,  Cato scholars criticized both major-party candidates , John McCain and Barack Obama .
Cato has criticized President Obama 's stances on policy issues since his  उद्घाटन  , such as fiscal stimulus , healthcare reform ,  विदेशी  policy ,  और  the War  on   दवाएँ  , while supporting his stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask  ,  Do n't Tell and liberal immigration policy .
Dracula is an 1897 Gothic horror novel by Irish author Bram Stoker .
Famous for introducing the character of the vampire Count Dracula , the novel tells the story of Dracula 's attempt to  relocate  from Transylvania to England , and the battle between Dracula  और  a small group of men and women led  by  Professor Abraham Van Helsing .
Dracula has been assigned to  अनेक  literary genres  सहित  vampire literature , horror fiction , the gothic novel and invasion literature .
The novel touches on themes such as the  भूमिका  of women in Victorian culture , sexual conventions , immigration , colonialism ,  और  post-colonialism .
Although Stoker did not invent the vampire , he defined its modern form , and the novel has spawned numerous theatrical , film and television interpretations .
Quidditch is a competitive sport in the  wizarding  world of the Harry Potter universe , and is from the series of children 's novels and movies .
It is an extremely  अशिष्ट  but very popular  semi-contact  sport , played by wizards and witches .
Matches are played between two teams  of  seven players riding  उड़ती  broomsticks  ,   using  four balls  और   छह  elevated ring-shaped goals , three on each side of the Quidditch pitch ( field ) .
In  the  Harry Potter universe , Quidditch holds a fervent following similar to the position that association football holds as a globally popular sport .
The sport  is  monumental throughout the  wizarding   संसार  .
Harry plays an important position  लिये  his house team at Hogwarts : he is  the  seeker and becomes the captain in his sixth year  वहीँ  .
क्षेत्रीय  and international competitions are mentioned throughout the series .
In Goblet of Fire  ,  Quidditch at Hogwarts is cancelled for the Tri-Wizard Tournament , but Harry  और  the Weasleys attend the  quidditch  World Cup .
in  addition  ,  Harry uses  उसके   quidditch   कौशल  to capture a golden egg from a dragon called  the  Hungarian Horntail ( in the first task of  the  Tri-Wizard Tournament )  ,   to  capture a flying key in  पारस  's Stone , and on two key occasions in Deathly Hallows  —  getting hold of Ravenclaw 's  diadem  , and during the final fight with Voldemort — the `` unerring skill of  the  Seeker  ''  is useful to  उसे  in snatching the Elder Wand  आउट   of  the air  .
Harry Potter  रै  owned two  broomsticks  , the Nimbus  2000  and the Firebolt , both of which are destroyed by the series ' end .
The game has been adopted in the real world in the form of Muggle Quidditch .
The United States Congress is the bicameral  विधानमंडल  of the federal government of the United States consisting of two houses :  the  lower house known as the House of Representatives and the  अपर   हाउस  known as the Senate .
Congress meets in the Capitol in Washington , D.C .
Both representatives and senators are chosen through direct election .
Congress has a total of 535 voting members : 435 members in the House of Representatives and  100  members in the Senate .
Members of the House of Representatives serve two-year terms representing the people of a district .
Congressional  जिले  are apportioned to states by population using the United States Census results , each state in the  संघ  having at least one representative in the House of Representatives .
Regardless of population , each of the 50 states has two senators ; the 100 senators each serve a six-year term  .
the  terms are staggered so every two years approximately one-third of the Senate is up for  चुनाव  .
Each staggered  समूह  of one-third of the senators are called 'classes ' .
No state of the United States  रै   दो  senators from the  वही  class  .
Most incumbents seek re-election , and  उनके  historical likelihood  of  winning subsequent elections exceeds 90 percent .
In August 2012  ,  a Gallup poll reported that Congress’s  स्वीकृति  rating amongst Americans was at  10  % , matching a  38-year  low reached in November 2011 .
`` A Little More Country  than  That '' is the title of a song written  by  Joey + Rory 's Rory Lee  feek  , Wynn Varble , and Don Poythress , and recorded by American country artist Easton Corbin .
It was released in August 2009 as Corbin 's debut  सिंगल  and is included on his self-titled debut album .
In April 2010 , the song reached  क्रमांक  One  on   the   देश  music charts , making Corbin  the  first male solo artist in seven years to send a debut single  to  Number One .
It has been  certified  Gold by the RIAA  .
The BlackBerry is a line of wireless handheld devices  और  services designed and marketed by Research In Motion Limited ( RIM ) operating as BlackBerry .
The first BlackBerry device , an email pager , was released in 1999 ; the most recent BlackBerry devices , the Z10 and Q10 , were announced on January 30 , 2013  .
The user interface varies by model ; most feature a physical QWERTY keyboard , while newer  पीढियां  have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard .
A BlackBerry can shoot video , take photos , play music  ,  and perform online functions  ऐसे  as web-browsing and emailing .
They can also send  और  receive  धक्का  email and instant  संदेश  while maintaining a high level of security through on-device message encryption , and are designed to function as personal digital assistants .
BlackBerry devices  support  a large variety of instant messaging features  ,  with the most popular being the  मालिकाना  BlackBerry Messenger service .
the  BlackBerry PlayBook is a tablet computer offered by the company .
The 100 millionth  ब्लैकबेरी  smartphone was shipped in June quarter of 2010 and the 200 millionth smartphone was shipped  in  September quarter of 2012 .
BlackBerry accounts  लिये  3 % of mobile device sales worldwide in 2011 , making its manufacturer the sixth most popular device  मेकर  ( 25 % of  मोबाईल  device  बिक्री  are  स्मार्टफ़ोन  ) .
the  consumer  ब्लैकबेरी  Internet Service is available in 91 countries worldwide on over 500 mobile service operators using various mobile technologies .
As of September 2012 , there were eighty million subscribers worldwide to BlackBerry .
In 2011 the  caribbean  and Latin America had the highest penetrations of BlackBerry smartphones worldwide  ,  with up to about  45  per cent in  the   प्रदेश  having a RIM device .
BlackBerry ,  iphone  , Android , and Windows Phone are  माना  the  चार  major smartphone brands .
BlackBerry is widely  referred   to  as `` CrackBerry '' in the United States ,  जिससे  alludes to its excessive use by its  स्वामी  and is a  सन्दर्भ  to the addictiveness of  क्रैक  cocaine .
उपयोग  of the term CrackBerry became so widespread that in November 2006  वेबस्टर  's New World College Dictionary named ``  crackberry  ''  the  `` New Word of the Year . ''
An example of a demand curve shifting .
The shift from D1 To D2 means an increase in demand with consequences for the other variables
In economics , the demand curve is the graph depicting  the  relationship between the  दाम  of a certain commodity and the amount of it that consumers are  willing  and able to purchase at that given price .
It is a graphic representation of a demand schedule .
the  demand curve for all consumers together follows from the demand  वक्र  of every individual consumer : the individual demands at each  दाम  are added together  .
Demand curves are used to  अनुमान  behaviors in competitive markets ,  और  are often combined with supply curves to estimate the equilibrium price ( the price at which sellers together are willing to sell the same amount as  खरीदार  together are willing  to  buy , also known  as  market  clearing  price ) and the equilibrium quantity ( the amount of that good or service that  होगा  be  उत्पादित  and bought without surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess demand ) of that market  .
In a monopolistic market , the demand  वक्र  facing the monopolist is simply the market demand curve .
Historia
by Nikolaos Gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from Greek - historia , meaning `` inquiry , knowledge acquired by investigation '' ) is an umbrella term that relates to  पास्ट  events as well as the  डिस्कवरी  , collection ,  संगठन   ,  and presentation of information about these events .
The  पद  includes cosmic ,  भूगर्भिक  , and organic history , but is often generically  implied  to mean human history .
Scholars who write about history are called historians .
History  can  also refer to the academic discipline which uses a narrative to examine and analyse a sequence  of  past events , and  objectively  determine the  पैटर्न  of cause and effect that determine them  .
Historians sometimes debate the nature of history and its usefulness by  discussing  the study  of  the discipline as  an  end in itself and as a way of providing `` perspective '' on the  समस्याएं  of  the  present .
Stories common to a  particular  culture , but not supported by external sources ( such as the tales surrounding  किंग  Arthur ) are usually classified as  सांस्कृतिक  heritage or legends , because they do not support the `` disinterested investigation '' required of the discipline of history .
Events occurring prior to  लिखा   रिकार्ड  are considered prehistory .
हिरोडोटस  , a 5th century B.C . Greek historian is considered within the Western tradition to be the `` father of history '' ,  और  ,  साथ  with his contemporary Thucydides , helped form the foundations for the modern study  of  human history .
Their work continues to be read  आज  and the divide between  the  culture-focused Herodotus and the military-focused  thucydides  remains a point of contention or approach in  आधुनिक  historical writing .
In the Eastern tradition , a state chronicle the Spring and Autumn Annals was known to be compiled from as early as 722 BCE  हालांकि  only 2nd  सदी  BCE texts survived .
Ancient influences  have  helped spawn variant interpretations of the nature of  इतिहास  which have evolved over the centuries and continue to change today .
The modern study of history is wide-ranging , and includes the study of specific regions and the study of certain topical or thematical elements of historical investigation .
Often  इतिहास  is taught as part of primary  और  secondary  शिक्षा  , and  the  academic study of  इतिहास  is a major discipline in  विश्वविद्यालयों  studies .
मैल्कम  X ( ; May 19 , 1925February 21 , 1965 ) , born Malcolm Little  और   भी  known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ) , was an African-American Muslim minister and human rights activist .
to  his admirers , he was a courageous advocate for  the  rights of blacks ,  a  man who indicted  श्वेत  America in the harshest terms for  इसके  crimes against black Americans  .
Detractors accused him of preaching racism , black supremacy ,  और  violence .
He has been called one of the greatest and most influential African Americans in history .
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists , it was rumored—when he was young , and at least one of his uncles was lynched .
When he was 13 , his  माँ  was placed in a mental hospital , and he was placed in a series  of  foster homes .
In 1946  ,  at age 20 , he went to prison for breaking and entering .
In prison , Malcolm X became a member  of  the Nation of Islam ; after his parole in 1952 , he quickly rose to become one of its leaders .
For a dozen years , Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group , but disillusionment with Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led  उसे  to leave the Nation in March 1964 .
After a  काल  of travel in  अफ़्रीकी  and  the  Middle East , he returned to the United States , where he founded Muslim Mosque , Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity .
In February 1965 , less than a year  बाद   leaving  the  स्वदेश  of Islam , he was assassinated by three members of the group .
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs changed substantially over time .
As a spokesman  लिये  the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black  और  white Americans —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration .
बाद  breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with it ,  ``  I did many things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now  .
I was  a   प्रेत  then ... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim , he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work with  सिविल  rights leaders  ,   he  continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism , black self-determination , and self-defense  .
Henry Merritt `` Hank  ''  Paulson , Jr. ( born  कूच  28 , 1946 ) is an American  बैंकर  who  परोसा  as the  74th  United States Secretary of the Treasury .
He  था  served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Goldman Sachs , and is now chairman of the Paulson Institute  ,  which he founded in 2011 to promote sustainable economic growth and a cleaner environment  around  the world , with an initial focus on the United States and China  .
A virtual machine (  vm  ) is a software implemented abstraction of the underlying hardware , which  is  presented  to  the application layer of the system .
आभासी  machines may be based on  विशेषताएँ   of  a hypothetical computer or emulate the computer architecture and functions  of  a real world computer  .
Spiders  (   अनुक्रम  Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that  have  eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject  venom   .
वे  are the largest order  of  arachnids and  रैंक  seventh  in  total species diversity among all other groups of organisms .
Spiders are found worldwide on every continent except for Antarctica , and have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air  और  sea colonization .
as  of 2008 , at least 43,678 spider species , and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however , there has  महरूम  confusion within the scientific  जातियाँ  as to how all these families should  be  classified  ,  as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders  differ  from other arthropods in that the usual body segments  हैं  fused into two  tagmata  , the cephalothorax and abdomen , and joined by a small , cylindrical pedicel .
Unlike  कीट  , spiders do not have antennae .
In all  मगर  the most primitive group  ,   the  Mesothelae , spiders have the most centralized nervous systems of all  arthropods  , as all their ganglia are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax  .
Unlike most arthropods , spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure .
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen  .
Spider webs vary widely in size , shape and the amount of sticky thread used .
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms , and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse  than  orb-web spiders .
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about , but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets .
True spiders have  महरूम  found in Carboniferous rocks from , and are very similar to the most primitive surviving order , the Mesothelae .
The main groups of  आधुनिक  spiders , Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae  ,  first appeared in the Triassic period , before .
A herbivorous species , Bagheera kiplingi , was described in 2008 , but all other known species are predators , mostly preying on insects and on other spiders , although a  few   विशाल  species also take birds and lizards .
Spiders use a wide range of  रणनीति  to capture prey : trapping  it  in sticky webs , lassoing  it  with sticky bolas , mimicking the prey to avoid detection , or running it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations , but the active hunters have  अधि  vision , and hunters of the  genus  Portia show signs of intelligence  in   उनके  choice of tactics and ability to  develop  new ones  .
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take  solids  , and they liquidize their food by flooding it with digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps , as  वे   do  not have true jaws .
Male spiders  पहचानो  themselves by a variety of complex courtship rituals to avoid  होने   खाया  by the females .
Males of  सबसे  species survive a few matings , limited mainly by their short life spans .
Females  बुनते  silk egg-cases , each of  जिससे  may contain hundreds  of  eggs .
Females of many species  परवाह  for their young ,  लिये  example by carrying them around or by sharing food with them .
A minority of species are social , building communal webs that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals .
Social  बर्ताव  ranges  इससे   precarious  toleration , as  in  the widow spiders , to co-operative hunting  और  food-sharing .
Although most spiders live for at most two years , tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can  सजीव  up to 25 years in captivity .
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans , scientists are  अभी  researching the use of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides .
Spider  रेशा  provides a combination of  lightness  , strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic materials , and spider silk genes have been inserted into mammals and plants to see  if  these can be used as silk factories .
As a result of their wide range  of  behaviors , spiders have become common symbols in art  और  mythology symbolizing various combinations of  सब्र  , cruelty and creative powers  .
डोना  Marie Pinciotti (  born  February 13 , 1960 ) is a fictional character  और  one of the  दो  female leads in the  फॉक्स  sitcom That '70s Show , appearing in all eight seasons .
Portrayed by Laura Prepon , Donna is the love interest to Eric  forman  .
US county household median income 2009 .
मध्य  US household income  ,  2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly used by the United States government and private institutions .
Each  household  is measured by the income of every resident over the age of  15  .
Income includes wages and salaries , unemployment insurance ,  विकलांगता  payments , child support payments received , regular rental receipts , as well as any personal business , investment , or other kinds of income received routinely .
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had been  increasing  almost every year from 1945 to 1999 , it has since been flat and even decreased recently .
U.S. median household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to  $  50,502 in 2011 .
Extreme poverty in  the  United States , meaning households living on less than $ 2 per day before  सरकारी  benefits  ,  doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011 , including 2.8  लाख  children .
the  residents of the household do not have to be related to  the  head of the household for their earnings to be considered part of the household  's  income .
as  households tend to share a  समान  economic context  ,  the use of household income remains among the most  widely  accepted measures of income .
That the size of a household is not commonly  लिया   into  account in such measures may distort  कोई  analysis of fluctuations within or among the household income categories , and may render  सीधा  comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible .
A registered  एजेंट  , also known as a resident agent or statutory agent , in United  राज्य  business law , is  a  business  or  individual designated to receive service of process ( SOP ) when a business entity is a party in a legal action such as a lawsuit  or  summons .
The  पंजीकृत  agent 's address may  भी  be where the  राज्य  will send the paperwork for the yearly renewal of the  कारोबार  entity 's charter .
The registered agent for a business entity may  be  an individual member of the company , or ( more often ) a third party , such as the organization 's  वकील  or a service company .
Failure to properly maintain a registered agent can affect a company  negatively   .
Office for  आपात   प्रबन्धन   .
Office of  युद्ध  Information war poster 1941 - 1945
`` Life , Liberty  ,  and the pursuit  of  Happiness '' is a well-known phrase in the United  राज्य  Declaration of Independence .
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' with  जिससे  all human  beings  are endowed by  उनके  creator for  उनके  protection of which they institute governments .
Fencing , is typically divided  into  Olympic fencing , Classical fencing and historical fencing , .
The sport of fencing ( commonly called olympic fencing or  प्रतिस्पर्धी   तलवारबाजी  ) is divided into three weapon categories  :  foil , sabre and  épée  .
Classical fencing uses the same three weapons , but approaches fencing as a martial  आर्ट  .
Competitive Fencing is one of  पाँच  sports which has been featured at every one of the modern Olympic Games , the  अन्य  four being Athletics , Cycling , Swimming  ,  and Gymnastics .
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed muscle of the femur `` ) , also  पुकारा  simply the quadriceps , quadriceps extensor , quads , is a large muscle group that includes the four prevailing  मांसपेशियां  on  the  front of the thigh .
It is the great extensor muscle of  the  knee , forming  a  large fleshy mass  जिससे  covers the front and sides of the femur .
The proper  लैटिन  plural form of the adjective quadriceps would be quadricipites .
In modern English usage , quadriceps is used in both singular and plural .
the  singular form quadricep , produced  by  hypercorrection , is frequently used .
RMS Titanic was a British passenger liner that sank in the North Atlantic Ocean on 15 April 1912 after colliding with an iceberg during her maiden voyage from Southampton , UK  to  New York City , US .
the  sinking of Titanic  caused  the deaths of 1,502 people in one of  the   deadliest  peacetime  मेरीटाइम  disasters in modern  इतिहास  .
The RMS Titanic was the largest ship afloat at the time of her maiden voyage .
She was the  दूसरी  of three Olympic class ocean liners operated by the White Star Line , and she was built by the Harland and Wolff shipyard in Belfast  साथ  Thomas Andrews , who perished with the ship , as her naval architect .
On her maiden voyage , she carried 2,224 passengers and crew .
Under the command of Edward Smith , her passengers included some  of  the wealthiest people in the world , as  खूब  as hundreds of emigrants from Great Britain  और  Ireland , Scandinavia and elsewhere throughout Europe  seeking  a  नई  life in North America .
The ship was designed to be the last word in comfort and luxury , with an on-board gymnasium , swimming pool , libraries  ,  high-class restaurants and opulent cabins .
She also had  a  powerful wireless telegraph provided for the convenience of passengers as well as for operational  उपयोग  .
Though she had advanced safety features such as watertight compartments and remotely activated watertight  द्वार  , she lacked enough lifeboats to accommodate all  of  those aboard .
Because  of  outdated maritime safety regulations , she carried only enough lifeboats for  1,178  people—slightly more than half of the number travelling on the maiden voyage , and one-third her total passenger and crew capacity .
After leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912 , Titanic called at  cherbourg  in France and Queenstown ( now Cobh ) in Ireland before heading westwards  towards  New York .
On 14 April 1912 , four days into  the  crossing and about 375 miles ( 600 km ) south  of  Newfoundland  ,  she hit an iceberg  at  11:40 pm ship 's time .
The glancing collision caused Titanics hull plates  to  buckle inwards along her starboard side and opened  पाँच  of her sixteen watertight compartments to the sea ; the  जलयान  gradually filled with water .
Meanwhile , passengers and some crew members were evacuated in lifeboats , many of which were launched only partly  loaded  .
A disproportionate number of men were left aboard because  of  a `` women and children first `` protocol followed by some of the  अधिकारियों  loading the lifeboats .
By 2:20 AM , she broke apart and foundered , with well over one thousand  लोगों  still aboard .
Just  अंतर्गत  two hours after the Titanic foundered , the Cunard liner  rms  Carpathia arrived on the scene of  the  sinking , where she brought  सवार  an estimated  705  survivors .
The disaster was greeted with  विश्वव्यापी  shock and outrage at the huge loss of life and the regulatory and operational failures that had led to it .
पब्लिक  inquiries in Britain and the United States led to major improvements  in  maritime safety .
One of their most important legacies  थी  the  स्थापना  in  1914   of  the International  सम्मेलन  for the Safety of Life at Sea ( SOLAS ) , which still governs maritime safety today .
Additionally , several new wireless regulations were passed around  the  world in an effort to learn from the many missteps in wireless communications -- -which could have saved many more passengers .
Many of the survivors lost all of their money and possessions and were left destitute ;  अनेक  families , particularly those of crew members from Southampton , lost their primary bread-winners .
They were  helped  by an  outpouring  of public sympathy and charitable donations .
Some of the male survivors  यहूद  accused of cowardice for leaving the ship while people were still on board ; the White Star Line 's chairman ,  J.  Bruce Ismay , faced social ostracism for the rest of his life .
the  wreck of the Titanic remains on the seabed , split in two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of .
Since its discovery  in   1985  , thousands  of  artefacts have been  बरामद  and put  on  display at museums  around  the world .
Titanic has become one of the most famous ships in history , her  मेमोरी  kept alive by numerous books , folk songs ,  films  , exhibits ,  और  memorials .
The human leg is the entire lower  extremity  or limb of the human body , including the foot , thigh and even the hip or gluteal region ; however , the precise definition in human anatomy refers  तभी  to the section of  the  lower limb extending from the knee to  the  ankle .
Legs are used for standing , walking  ,  jumping , running , kicking , and similar activities , and constitute a significant portion  of  a person 's mass .
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Turkey , including population density , ethnicity , education level , health of the populace , economic status , religious  संबद्धों  and other  पहलुओं  of the population .
As  of  2010 , the population of Turkey is estimated to be 73.7 million with  a   विकास  rate of 1.21 % per annum  (   2009  figure ) .
The population is relatively young with  26.6  % falling in the 0-14 age  कोष्ठक  .
According to the OECD/World  बैंको  population statistics in  तुर्कों  the population growth from 1990 to 2008 was 16 million  or  29 % .
1998 BMW  750il
Buick Roadmaster
A full-size car is a marketing term used in North America for an automobile larger than a mid-size car .
In the United States , the EPA uses  the  term `` large car  ''  to denote full-size cars .
Joel Grey ( born April 11 , 1932 ) is an American stage and screen actor , singer , and dancer , known for his role as the Master of Ceremonies in both the stage and film  अनुकूलन  of the Kander  &  Ebb musical Cabaret .
He has won the Academy Award , Tony Award and Golden Globe Award  .
He also originated the role of  जार्ज  M. Cohan in the musical George  m  !
in 1973 , the Wizard in the  musical  Wicked .
Grey also starred in the Broadway revivals of Anything Goes  as  Moonface Martin , and Chicago as Amos Hart .
James  मैडिसन  , Jr. ( March 16 , 1751 ( O.S  .  March 5 ) –  जून  28 , 1836 )  थी  an American statesman and political theorist , the fourth President of the United States ( 1809–1817 ) .
He is hailed as the “Father of the Constitution” for being instrumental in the drafting of  the   संयुक्त  States Constitution and as the key champion and author of the United States Bill of Rights .
He served as  a  politician much of his adult life .
After the constitution had been drafted  ,  Madison became one of the leaders in the movement to  ratify  it .
His collaboration with Alexander Hamilton  और  John Jay produced the Federalist Papers ( 1788 )  .
Circulated only in New York at the  समय  , they would later  be  considered among the  सबसे  important polemics in support of  the  Constitution .
He was also a delegate to the Virginia constitutional ratifying convention , and was  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल  to the successful ratification effort in Virginia .
Like most  of  his contemporaries  ,  Madison changed his political views during  उसके  life .
During the drafting and ratification of the constitution  ,  he favored a  दमदार  national government , though later he grew to favor stronger state governments , before  settling   between  the two extremes  लेट   in  his life .
In 1789 , Madison became a leader in the new House  of  Representatives , drafting many basic laws .
He is notable for drafting the first ten amendments to the Constitution , and thus is known as the `` Father of the Bill of Rights `` .
Madison  worked  closely with President George Washington to organize  the  new  संघीय  government .
Breaking with Hamilton and what  became  the Federalist Party in  1791  ,  मैडिसन  and Thomas Jefferson organized  कया  they called the Republican Party ( later called by historians the  democratic-republican  Party )
As Jefferson’s Secretary  of  State (  1801–1809  ) , Madison supervised the Louisiana Purchase , which doubled  the  nation’s size .
After his election to the presidency , he presided over renewed prosperity for several years .
as   अध्यक्ष  ( 1809–17 ) , after the failure of diplomatic protests  और  a trade embargo against Great Britain , he led the nation into the War of  1812  .
He was responding to British encroachments on American honor and rights ; in addition , he wanted to end  the  influence of the British among their Indian allies , whose resistance blocked United States settlement in the Midwest around the Great Lakes .
Madison found the war to be an administrative nightmare ,  as  the United States had neither a strong army nor financial system ; as a result  ,  he afterward supported a stronger national government and a strong  सैन्य  , as well as the national bank , which he had long opposed  .
Like other  वर्जिनिया  statesmen in the slave society  ,  he was a slaveholder who inherited his plantation known  as  Montpelier , and owned hundreds of slaves during his lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other crops .
Madison supported the three-fifths compromise that  अनुमत  three-fifths of the enumerated population of slaves to be counted for representation .
`` Roman 's Revenge '' is a song performed by American rapper Nicki Minaj from  उसके  debut studio album Pink Friday .
It was written by Minaj and  rapper  Eminem ,  जो  is also featured  in  the song , and was produced by Swizz Beatz .
It was  released  exclusively on October 30 ,  2010  through the  us  iTunes Store , as a promotional release preceding the album 's release .
The song initiated a  feud  between Lil ' Kim and Minaj , where many people felt the song was directed at Lil ' Kim and regarded around her feelings towards Minaj 's rise to fame .
The song references Minaj 's alter-ego , Roman Zolanski  ,  and Eminem 's alter-ego  ,  Slim Shady .
The song garnered very positive reviews from critics , most of  जिससे  praised the song as  a  stand-out track on the album .
An official remix featuring Minaj 's  mentor  , Lil Wayne , was released to the US iTunes Store  on  January 19 , 2011 .
The  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल  was used in the song  'firing  Squad ' by  नाल  G.A.N.G .
Hydraulic fluid being poured .
Hydraulic fluids , also called hydraulic liquids , are the medium by which power is transferred in hydraulic machinery .
Common hydraulic fluids are based on  खनिज  oil  or  water .
उदाहरण  of equipment that might  उपयोग  hydraulic fluids  शामिल  excavators and backhoes  ,  hydraulic brakes , power steering systems , transmissions , garbage trucks , aircraft flight  कंट्रोल  systems  ,  lifts , and industrial machinery .
Hydraulic systems like  the  ones mentioned above will work most efficiently  if  the hydraulic fluid used has no compressibility
Mahindra Tractor
Mahindra Tractors  ,  the farm equipment division of Mahindra & Mahindra , builds and sources tractors that are sold  विश्वव्यापी  across  छह  continents .
Mahindra is  भी  among the top three tractor  निर्माताओं  in the world .
Mahindra  रै  a huge  उपभोक्ता   आधार  in India , China and America and  a  growing base in Australia .
The company  builds  more tractors in India than any other manufacturer , and has  the  capacity to build 150,000 tractors a year .
In 1963 ,  m  &  m  formed a joint venture with International Harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the Mahindra nameplate for the Indian  मार्केट  .
Armed with engineering , tooling and manufacturing know-how gained from this relationship  ,  M  &  M developed its first  ट्रैक्टर  ,  the  B-275 .
Mahindra Tractors with sales  of  nearly  85,000   इकाई  annually is one of the  largest  tractor companies in the world , and is number one in sales in India -  the  largest tractor  मार्केट   in  the world .
To expand into the growing tractor market in China ,  महिंद्रा  acquired majority  हिस्सेदारी  in Jiangling .
To  उठाएँ   जागरूकता   परिचय   महिंद्रा  in the US , Mahindra USA announced its new sponsorship in the NASCAR Nationwide Series with R3 Motorsports ,  जिससे  is participating  साथ  a # 23 Mahindra Tractors Chevrolet .
The car will be driven by Robert Richardson , Jr. Mahindra USA , Inc. announced a 17-race  प्राथमिक  and 18-race associate sponsorship for the 2009 NASCAR Nationwide Series .
With this sponsorship , Mahindra was the first Indian company to sponsor a car in NASCAR .
in  2008  ,  Mahindra was a sponsor of the McDonald Motorsports team which ran the # 81  car  in the NASCAR Nationwide Series .
The POWER6 is a microprocessor developed by IBM that implemented the Power ISA v.2.03 .
When it became available in  प्रणालियों  in 2007 , it succeeded the POWER5+ as IBM 's flagship Power microprocessor .
it  is part of the  eclipz  project , said to have a goal of converging IBM 's server hardware where practical ( hence  ``  ipz '' in the acronym :  iseries  , pSeries , and  zseries  ) .
The American middle class is a social class in the United  राज्य  .
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion and common language use , contemporary social scientists have put forward several , more or  कम  congruent ,  theories  on the American middle class .
Depending on class model used , the middle class  may  constitute anywhere from 25 % to 66  %  of households .
One  of  the first major studies of the  मध्य  class in America was White Collar : The American Middle Classes , published in 1951 by sociologist C. Wright Wright_Mills Mills  wright_mills  .
बाद  sociologists such as Dennis Gilbert of Hamilton College commonly divide the middle class  into  two sub-groups .
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the upper or professional middle class consisting of highly educated , salaried professionals and managers .
Constituting roughly one third of households is the lower middle class  consisting  mostly of semi-professionals , skilled craftsmen  और  lower-level  प्रबन्धन  .
Middle-class persons commonly have a comfortable standard of living , significant economic security ,  considerable  work autonomy and rely on their expertise to sustain themselves .
Members of the middle class belong to diverse groups which overlap with each other .
Overall , middle-class persons , especially upper-middle-class individuals , are characterized  by  conceptualizing , creating and consulting .
Thus , college education  is  one of the  प्रमुख  indicators of middle-class status .
Largely  attributed   to  the nature of middle-class occupations , middle class values  tend  to emphasize independence , adherence to intrinsic standards , valuing innovation  और  respecting non-conformity .
Politically more active than other demographics , college educated middle class professionals are split between the two major parties .
Income varies considerably from near the national median  to  well in excess of $ 100,000 .
Household income figures , however , do not always reflect  क्लास  status and standard  of  living , as they are largely influenced by the number of income earners and fail to recognize household  आकार  .
It is therefore possible for a large , dual-earner  ,  lower middle  क्लास  household to  out-earn  a  छोटी  , one-earner , upper middle class household .
the  middle classes are very influential , as they encompass the majority of voters ,  लेखक  , teachers , journalists , and editors .
Most societal trends in the US  originate   भीतर   the  middle classes .
The following is a list of Saturday Night Live cast members ,  पास्ट  and present .
The cast members  of   शनिवार  Night Live  यहूद  originally referred to as the ``  नहीं  Ready For Prime Time Players ''  .
the  original cast (  l  to r )  :  Laraine Newman , John  belushi  , Jane Curtin , Gilda Radner , Dan Aykroyd , Garrett Morris , and Chevy Chase
Ruins from the 1906 San Francisco earthquake ,  remembered  as one of the  worst   प्राकृतिक  disasters in United States history
A disaster is a  प्राकृतिक  or man-made ( or technological ) hazard resulting in an event  of  substantial extent causing significant physical damage or  विनाश  ,  घाटा  of life ,  or   drastic  change to the environment .
A disaster can be ostensively defined as any tragic event stemming from events such as earthquakes  ,  floods , catastrophic accidents ,  फ़ायर  , or explosions .
It is a phenomenon that can cause  क्षति   to  life and property and destroy the economic , social and cultural life of people .
In contemporary academia , disasters are  देखी  as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk .
These risks are the product of a combination of both hazard/s  और  vulnerability .
Hazards that  स्ट्राइक  in areas with low vulnerability will never become disasters , as is  the  case in uninhabited regions .
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster  हिट्स  – more than 95 percent of  सब  deaths caused by disasters occur in developing countries , and losses due to natural disasters are 20 times greater  (  as a percentage of GDP  )   in  developing  देशों  than in industrialized countries .
In computing  ,  booting ( also  ज्ञात  as booting  up  ) is the initial set of operations that a computer system performs when electrical  शक्ति  to  the  CPU is switched on .
The process begins when a computer is turned on for the first time or is re-energized after being turned off , and ends when the computer is ready to perform its normal operations .
On  आधुनिक  general purpose computers , this can take  tens  of seconds and typically involves performing a power-on self-test  ,  locating and initializing peripheral devices  ,   और   तब  finding , loading and starting an operating system .
Many computer systems also allow these  परिचालन  to be initiated  by  a  तन्त्र  command without  साइकिलिंग  power , in what is known as a soft reboot , though some of the initial operations might be skipped on a soft reboot .
A boot loader is a computer program that loads the main operating system or runtime environment for the computer after  पूर्णता  of the self-tests .
The computer term boot is short for bootstrap  or  bootstrap load and derives from the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps .
The usage calls attention to the  आवश्यकता  that , if most software is loaded onto a computer by other software already running on the computer , some mechanism must exist to load  आरंभिक  software onto the computer .
Early computers used  a  variety of ad-hoc methods to get a small program into memory to solve this problem .
The invention of integrated circuit read-only memory  (  ROM ) of  विभिन्न  types solved  इस  paradox by allowing computers to be shipped with a start up program that could not be erased .
Growth in the capacity of ROM has allowed ever more elaborate start up  प्रक्रियाओं  to be implemented .
On general purpose computers ,  the  boot process begins with the execution of an initial  कार्यक्रम  stored in boot ROMs or read in  another  fashion .
In some older computers , the initial program might have been the application to run , if no operating  प्रणाली  was used , or the operating system .
In  अन्य  computers , the initial program is a  बूट  loader  कि  may then load into  random-access  memory ( RAM ) , from nonvolatile secondary storage  (  such  as  a  मुश्किल  disk drive )  or  , in some older computers , from a medium  ऐसे  as punched cards , punched tape , or magnetic tape in older  कंप्यूटर  , the binary code of an operating system or runtime environment and then  चलाएँ  it .
If the boot loader is limited in its size and capabilities , it may  ,  instead , load  a  larger  और  more  सक्षम  secondary boot loader , which would then load the operating system or runtime environment .
Some embedded systems do not require a noticeable boot  अनुक्रम  to begin functioning and when turned on  may  simply run operational  कार्यक्रम  that are stored in ROM .
Firebird is an open source SQL relational database management system that runs on Linux , Windows , and a variety of Unix  .
The  डेटाबेस   forked  from Borland 's open source edition of InterBase in 2000 , but since  firebird  1.5 the code  रै  been largely rewritten .
Outsourcing is the contracting out of an internal business process  to  a third-party  संगठन  .
the  practice of contracting a business process out to a third party rather  than   स्टॉफ  it  internally  is common  in  the modern economy .
The term `` outsourcing '' became popular in the  संयुक्त  States near the turn of the  21st  century .
Outsourcing sometimes involves transferring employees  और  assets from one firm to another , but not always .
The definition of outsourcing includes both foreign and  घरेलू  contracting , and sometimes includes offshoring , which means relocating  a  business function  to  another country .
Financial savings from lower international labor  दरों  is a big motivation for outsourcing/offshoring .
The opposite of outsourcing is called insourcing , which entails bringing processes  संभाला   by  third-party firms in-house , and is sometimes accomplished  via  vertical  संयोजन  .
However , a  कारोबार  can provide a contract service to another business without necessarily insourcing that business process .
इंसान  immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) that  कल्याणकारी  acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (  एड्स  ) , a condition  in  humans in  जिससे  progressive failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive .
Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of blood , semen ,  vaginal  fluid ,  pre-ejaculate  , or breast milk .
Within these  bodily  fluids , HIV is present as both free virus particles and virus within infected immune cells .
HIV infects vital cells in the human immune system such as helper T cells (  specifically  CD4 + T cells ) , macrophages , and dendritic cells .
HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of  mechanisms  including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells , direct viral killing of infected cells  ,  and killing of infected CD4+  t  cells by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes  कि   recognize  infected cells .
When CD4+ T cell  संख्याएँ  decline below a critical level , cell-mediated immunity is  खोया   ,  and the  देह  becomes progressively more susceptible to opportunistic  infections  .
The firepole in a fire  स्टेशन  in  टोरंटो
A fireman  's  pole ( also called a sliding pole or firepole  )  is a wooden  ध्रुव  or  a  metal  ट्यूब  or pipe installed between floors  in   आग  stations , allowing firefighters responding  to  an alarm to quickly descend to the ground floor faster than by using a  मानक  staircase .
The  यंत्र  was invented in the 1870s  by  David Kenyon , in Chicago , Illinois , although it  is  often incorrectly credited to the Boston Fire Department  .
Mary Poppins is the title character of a series of children 's books written by P. L. Travers .
Throughout the  मरियम  Poppins  श्रेणी  , which  lasted  from 1934 to 1988 , Mary Shepard was the illustrator  और  acted as a second author .
The books centre on a magical English nanny , Mary Poppins .
She is blown by the East  हवा  to Number Seventeen Cherry Tree Lane , London , and into the Banks ' household to care for their children .
Encounters with chimney sweeps , shopkeepers and various adventures follow  जबतक  Mary Poppins abruptly leaves , i.e.  ,  `` pops-out  ''  .
The  adventures  take place over a total  of  eight books .
However , only the first three books feature Mary Poppins arriving and leaving .
The later five books recount previously  unrecorded  adventures from  उसके  original three visits .
As P. L. Travers explains in her introduction to Mary Poppins in the Park , `` She can not forever arrive  और  depart . ''
The books were adapted in 1964 into a musical Disney film starring Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke  .
in  2004 , Disney Theatrical  उत्पादित  a  स्टेज  musical adaptation in the West End theatre .
The stage musical  थी  transferred to Broadway in 2006 where it ran until its closing on March 3 , 2013 .
It has been highly successful , as was the 1964 film .
The Last Song is a 2010 American  coming  of age  टीन  romantic drama film developed alongside  निकोलस  Sparks '  अनोखा  by the same name .
The film was directed by Julie Anne Robinson in her feature film directorial debut and  co-written  by Sparks and Jeff Van Wie .
The  पिछला   सोंग  stars Miley Cyrus , Liam Hemsworth  ,  and Greg Kinnear and follows a troubled teenager as she reconnects with her estranged father and falls in love during a summer in a quiet Southern United States beach town .
The film is distributed by Touchstone Pictures .
Sparks was approached to write both the film 's screenplay and the novel .
स्पार्क्स   समाप्त  the screenplay in  जनवरी  2009 , prior to the completion of the novel , making The Last  सोंग  his first script to be  optioned   लिये   फिल्मी  .
The setting , originally  in  North  कैरोलिना  like the novel , moved to  जॉर्जिया  after the states  था   campaigned  for months to host production .
Upon beginning production in Tybee Island , Georgia and nearby Savannah ,  the  Last Song became the first movie to  be  both shot and set in Tybee  द्वीप  .
Filming lasted from June 15 to August 18 , 2009 with much of it occurring on the island 's beach and pier .
The Last  सोंग  was originally scheduled for  चौड़ी  release on January 8 , 2010 , but was postponed to March 31 , 2010 .
Written Simlish
Simlish  is   a  fictional language featured in EA Games  '  Sim series of games  .
it  debuted in SimCopter ,  और  has been especially prominent in The Sims , The Sims 2 and The Sims 3 .
The Sims  विकास  team created the unique Simlish language  by  experimenting with fractured Ukrainian , French , Latin  ,  Finnish , English , Fijian , Cebuano  ,  and Tagalog .
Simlish can also be heard in SimCity 4 , SimCity Societies and SimCity 2013 , but far less frequently .
Civilized Creatures in Spore can also  be  taught to  बोलो  Simlish .
It  is  also featured to an  extent  in Firaxis Games ' Sid Meier 's SimGolf .
Designer Will Wright was conscious  of  the need for dialogue in the game , but thought  कि  using  a  real  भाषा  would make it sound too repetitive  और  would also be  too  costly to hire translators for  संसार  languages  .
initially  , inspired by the Native American code talkers of World War II , Sims creator Will Wright and language expert Marc Gimbel suggested experimenting  साथ  the  navajo   भाषा  to create  simlish  .
However , they ultimately decided that Simlish worked best as a ``  भाषा  '' made up of gibberish words that could n't be  अनूदित   ,  so that its meaning would be left open to the imagination of the player .
Wright later commented that using `` nonsense language '' turned out to be the right development choice , as people were capable of imagining it more realistically than  a  computer could simulate a real one .
The actual sound of Simlish  थी  created improvisationally by voice actors Stephen Kearin and Gerri Lawlor .
An example of Ultrasonic Testing ( UT ) on blade roots of a  v2500  IAE aircraft engine .
Step 1 : The UT probe is placed on the  रूट  of the blades to be inspected with the help of  a  special borescope tool ( video probe )  .
Step  2  : Instrument settings are input .
Step 3 : The probe is scanned over the blade root .
in  this case , an indication ( peak in  the  data ) through the red line ( or gate )  indicates  a good blade  ;  an indication to the left of that  दायरा  indicates a crack .
Principle of ultrasonic testing .
LEFT : A probe sends a sound wave into a test material .
There are two  indications  , one from the initial pulse of the probe , and the second due to the back wall echo .
RIGHT : A defect creates a third indication and simultaneously reduces  the  amplitude of the back wall indication .
The depth of the defect is determined by the ratio D/E
in  ultrasonic testing ( UT ) , very short ultrasonic pulse-waves with center frequencies ranging from 0.1-15 MHz and occasionally up to 50 MHz are launched into materials to detect internal flaws or to characterize materials .
A common example is  अल्ट्रासोनिक  thickness measurement  ,  which tests the  मोटाई  of the test object , for example , to monitor pipework corrosion .
Ultrasonic testing  is  often performed on steel and other metals and alloys , though it can also be used on concrete , wood and composites , albeit with less resolution .
it  is a form of non-destructive testing used in many industries including aerospace , automotive and other transportation  सेक्टर   .
The vas deferens ( plural  :  vasa deferentia )  ,  also called ductus deferens (  लैटिन  : `` carrying-away vessel '' ; plural : ductus deferentes ) , is part of the male anatomy of many vertebrates  ;  they transport sperm from  the  epididymis  in  anticipation of ejaculation .
Vascular ischemia of the toes with  characteristic  cyanosis .
In medicine ,  ischemia  , also spelled as ischaemia  or  ischæmia , ( ; from Greek language ισχαιμία , ischaimía ; isch-  रूट  denoting  a  restriction or thinning or  to  make  or  grow thin/lean , haema blood ) is a restriction in blood supply to tissues , causing a shortage  of  oxygen and glucose needed for cellular  चयापचय  (  to  keep tissue alive ) .
Ischemia is generally caused by problems with blood vessels , with resultant damage to or dysfunction  of  tissue .
It also means local anemia in a given part of  a   देह  sometimes resulting from congestion ( such as vasoconstriction , thrombosis or embolism ) .
Down  सिंड्रोम  ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome  ,  also known as trisomy 21 , is  a  genetic disorder caused by the presence of all or  भाग  of a third  नक़ल  of chromosome 21 .
Down syndrome is the most common  chromosome  abnormality in humans .
It is typically associated with a delay in cognitive ability ( mental retardation , or MR ) and physical growth  ,  and  a  particular set of facial characteristics .
The average IQ of young adults with Down syndrome is around 50  ,  whereas young adults without the  कंडीशन  typically  have  an IQ of 100 .
(  mr  has historically been  पारिभाषित  as an IQ below 70 . )
A large proportion of individuals with Down syndrome have a severe degree of intellectual disability .
bas  syndrome is named after John Langdon  bas  , the British physician who described the syndrome in 1866 .
The condition was clinically described earlier by Jean Etienne Dominique Esquirol in 1838 and Edouard Seguin in 1844  .
Down syndrome was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy by Dr. Jérôme Lejeune in 1959 .
Down syndrome can be  पहचाना   in  a baby at birth or before birth by prenatal screening .
pregnancies   साथ  this diagnosis are often terminated .
The CDC estimates that about one of  प्रत्येक  691 babies born in  the  United  राज्य  each year  is   born  with Down syndrome  .
Many children with Down syndrome are educated in regular school classes while others require specialised educational facilities .
कुछ  children  ग्रैजुएट  from high school , and , in the US , there are increasing opportunities  लिये  participating in post-secondary education .
Education and proper care has been shown to improve quality of life significantly .
Many adults  साथ  Down Syndrome are  समर्थ  to work at paid employment in the community , while others require a more sheltered  कार्य  environment .
Hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes , or night sweats if they happen at night ) are a symptom  जिससे  may have several other causes , but which is  प्रायः  caused by the  बदलना  hormone levels that are characteristic of menopause .
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( P.L . 78-346 , 58 Stat . 284m  )  , known informally as the G.I . Bill , was a  विधि   कि  provided a range of benefits for returning World War II  दिग्गजों  (  commonly   referred  to as  g.i.s  ) .
Benefits included low-cost mortgages , low-interest loans to start a business or farm , cash payments of tuition and living expenses  to  attend college , high school or vocational education , as well as one year of unemployment compensation .
It was available to every veteran who had been on active duty during the  युद्ध  years for  at  least ninety  दिनों  and had not been dishonorably discharged ; combat was not required .
by  the end of the program in 1956 , roughly 2.2 million veterans had  प्रयुक्त  the G.I . Bill education benefits in order to attend colleges or universities , and an additional  6.6  million  प्रयुक्त  these benefits for some kind  of   प्रशिक्षण  program .
Since the original 1944 law  ,  the term has come to  शामिल  other veteran benefit programs created to assist veterans of subsequent wars as  खूब  as peacetime service .
Historians and economists consider  the  G.I . Bill a major political success—especially in contrast to the treatments of World War I veterans—and a major  योगदान  to America 's stock  of  human capital that sped long-term economic growth .
The Watergate scandal was a political scandal that occurred  in  the United States in the 1970s  as  a result of the June 17 , 1972 break-in at  the   लोकतांत्रिक  National Committee headquarters at the Watergate office complex in Washington , D.C. , and  the  Nixon administration 's attempted cover-up of its involvement .
The scandal eventually led  to  the resignation of Richard Nixon , the President of the United States ,  on  August 9 , 1974 — the only resignation of a U.S. President .
The scandal also resulted in the  indictment  , trial , conviction , and incarceration of forty-three  व्यक्तियों  , dozens of whom were Nixon 's top administration officials .
The affair began with the  गिरफ़्तार  of five men for breaking and entering into the Democratic National Committee ( DNC  )  headquarters at the Watergate complex on June 17 , 1972 .
The  संघीय  Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) connected cash found on  the  burglars to  a   slush  fund used by the Committee for the Re-Election of the President , the official organization of Nixon 's campaign .
In July 1973 , as evidence mounted against the president  's  staff , including testimony provided by former staff members in an investigation  conducted   by  the  सीनेट  Watergate Committee , it was revealed that President Nixon had a tape-recording system in his offices and he had recorded many conversations .
Recordings  इससे   ये  tapes implicated the president , revealing he had attempted to cover up the questionable ( and illegal ) goings-on that had taken place during his administration , both before and after the break-in .
After a protracted series of bitter court battles , the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled  कि  the president had to hand over the tapes to government investigators ; he  ultimately  complied .
Facing near-certain impeachment in the House of Representatives and a strong possibility  of  a conviction in the Senate , Nixon resigned the presidency on August  9  , 1974 .
His successor , Gerald Ford ,  तब   जारी  a pardon to him .
Elizabeth  imogene  Webber ( formerly Lansing and Spencer ) is  a   fictional  character on the ABC Daytime soap  ओपेरा  General  हॉस्पिटल  .
Elizabeth is the granddaughter of Dr. Steve Hardy ( John Beradino ) , one of the originating core characters of the series .
Rebecca  herbst  originated the character on  अगस्त  1 , 1997 and has been the only contract actress to play the role .
Elizabeth is part of two supercouple pairings , Lucky Spencer  और  Elizabeth Webber and Jason  मॉर्गन  and Elizabeth Webber .
The United States presidency of Ronald Reagan , also known as the Reagan administration ,  थी  a Republican administration headed  by  Ronald  reagan  from January 20 , 1981 , to January 20 , 1989 .
Domestically , the  प्रशासन  favored reducing government programs and introduced the largest across-the-board tax cuts in American history .
The economic policies enacted in  1981  , known as `` Reaganomics `` , were an example of supply-side  अर्थशास्त्र  .
Reagan aimed to encourage entrepreneurship and limit the growth of social spending , as well as the reduction of regulation and  महंगाई  .
Economic growth saw a strong recovery in  the  1980s , helping Reagan to win a landslide re-election .
The national debt  increased  significantly , however .
Regarding foreign policy , the administration was steadfastly anti-communist , calling the  सोवियत  Union an ``  दुष्ट  empire `` and ending 1970s détente .
Reagan accelerated the massive buildup of the military started by his predecessor , including an invasion of Grenada , the first major overseas action by U.S. troops since the end of the  वियतनाम  War .
The ``  reagan  Doctrine  ``  controversially granted aid to paramilitary forces seeking to overthrow communist governments , particularly in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan .
Reagan also promoted new technologies such as missile  रक्षा  systems in order to confront the Soviets and their allies  .
In diplomacy , Reagan forged a strong alliance with UK Prime Minister Margaret  थैचर  , and he  मिले  with Soviet  सामान्य  Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev four times , aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals .
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` Reagan Revolution '' , or the Age of Reagan in recognition of the political realignment both within and beyond the U.S. in  एहसान  of his  ब्रांड  of conservatism and his faith in  फ़्री  markets .
the  Reagan administration worked toward the collapse of Soviet Communism  ,  and it did collapse just as he left office .
Victory in the Cold War  led  to a unipolar  संसार  with the U.S. as the world  's   एकमात्र   महाशक्ति  .
While the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed several Reagan  aides  during his second term , Reagan himself left office  साथ  a 63 percent approval rating , one of the higher approval ratings of departing presidents .
After years of unstinting praise  इससे  the right , and unrelenting criticism from the left , historian David Henry finds that by 2009 a consensus had emerged among scholars  कि  Reagan  revived  conservatism and turned the nation to the right by demonstrating a ``  pragmatic  conservatism '' that promoted ideology  भीतर  the  constraints  imposed  by  the divided political system .
furthermore  , says  हेनरी  , the consensus viewpoint agrees that he revived faith in the presidency and American self-confidence  ,  and contributed critically to ending the Cold War .
Crude death rate by country ( 2006 ) .
मृत्यु  rate is a measure of the number of  मौतों   (  in general , or due to a specific cause ) in  a  population  .
Scaled to the size of that population , per unit of time  .
मृत्यु  rate is typically expressed in units of deaths per 1000 individuals per year ; thus ,  a  mortality rate of 9.5  (  out  of  1000  )  in a population of 1,000 would mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire population  ,  or 0.95 % out of the total  .
It  is  distinct from morbidity rate , which refers to the number of individuals in poor health during a given time period ( the prevalence  रेट  ) or the number of newly appearing cases of the disease per unit of time ( incidence rate )  .
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately used to refer to the number of deaths among a set of diagnosed  हॉस्पिटल  cases for a disease or injury , rather than for the general population of a country or ethnic group .
इस  disease mortality statistic  is  more precisely referred to as  ``  case fatality rate `` ( CFR ) .
One distinguishes:
The crude death rate , the total number of deaths per year per 1000 people .
the crude death rate for the whole  संसार  is about 8.37 per 1000 per year according to the  वर्तमान  CIA World Factbook .
The perinatal mortality rate ,  the  sum of neonatal deaths and fetal deaths (  stillbirths  ) per 1000 births .
The maternal  मृत्यु  ratio , the  क्रमांक  of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in same time period .
The maternal mortality rate , the number of maternal deaths per 1,000 women of  reproductive  age in the population ( generally defined as 15–44 years of age ) .
The  शिशु  mortality rate , the number of deaths of children less than 1 year old per 1000 live births  .
The  चाइल्ड  mortality rate , the number  of  deaths of children less than 5 years old per 1000 live births .
The standardised mortality ratio ( SMR ) - This represents a proportional comparison to the  संख्याएँ  of  मौतों  that would have been expected if the population had been  of   a  standard composition in  शर्तें  of age , gender ,  इत्यादि  .
The age-specific mortality rate ( ASMR )  -  This refers to the total number of deaths per  साल  per 1000 people of a given age ( e.g . age 62 last birthday ) .
in  regard to the or  विफलता  of medical  उपचार  or procedures , one would also distinguish:
The early mortality  रेट   ,  the total  क्रमांक  of deaths  in  the early stages of an ongoing  उपचार  , or in the period immediately following  an  treatment .
the  late mortality rate  ,  the total number  of  deaths in the late stages of an ongoing treatment , or a significant length of time after an acute treatment .
Note that the  crude  death rate as defined above and applied to a whole population can give a misleading impression .
The  crude  death rate depends on the age ( and gender ) specific mortality  दरों  and the age ( and gender  )   वितरण  of  the  population .
The number of deaths per 1000 people  can  be higher for developed nations than in less-developed  देशों   ,   despite  life expectancy being higher in developed countries  due  to standards of health being better  .
This happens because developed countries typically have a completely different population age distribution , with a much higher  proportion  of older people , due to both lower recent birth  दरों   और  lower mortality rates .
A more complete picture of mortality is given by a life table which shows the mortality rate separately for each age .
A life table is  जरुरी  to give a good  अनुमान  of  जीवन  expectancy .
An otoacoustic emission ( OAE )  is  a  ध्वनि  which is generated  इससे  within the inner ear .
Having been predicted by  थामस  Gold in 1948 , its  अस्तित्व  was first demonstrated experimentally by David Kemp in 1978 and otoacoustic emissions have since  महरूम  shown to arise by a  क्रमांक  of different cellular mechanisms within the inner  कान  .
Studies have shown that OAEs disappear after the inner ear  रै  been damaged , so OAEs are often used in  the  laboratory and the clinic as a measure of inner ear health  .
Broadly speaking , there are two types of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( SOAEs ) , which can occur without external stimulation , and evoked otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ) , which require an evoking stimulus .
Hurricane Tomas was  the  nineteenth named storm and twelfth hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season  .
Tomas developed from a tropical wave east of the Windward Islands on October 29 .
Quickly  intensifying  into a hurricane ,  it  moved through the Windward Islands and passed very near Saint Lucia .
After  reaching  Category 2 status on the  saffir-simpson   स्केल  , Tomas quickly weakened to a tropical storm in the central Caribbean Sea  ,  due  to  strong wind  shear  and dry air .
Tomas later regained hurricane status as it reorganized near the Windward passage .
Throughout the  hurricane  's path , 71 people are known to have been killed , 14 of whom  यहूद  in Saint Lucia .
Monetary losses throughout the Windward Islands were estimated at US $ 588 million , mainly in Saint Lucia .
In the wake of the storm in Haiti , flooding intensified an ongoing cholera outbreak indirectly  causing  more fatalities  .
According to a report released  in   दिसम्बर  2010 , 55 people were killed in Cuba and Hispanola , though the distribution of these fatalities are unknown  .
Overall  क्षति  from the storm was at least $ 741 million .
Victoria Jackson ( born August  2  ,  1959  ) is an American comedian , actress , satirist ,  सिंगर  and internet blogger  बेहतरीन  known as a cast member of the NBC television sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live  (  SNL  )  from 1986 to 1992 .
She  रै  received attention as a vocal critic of President Barack Obama , and  is  an active participant in the Tea Party movement .
Postmodern literature is literature characterized by heavy reliance  on  techniques like fragmentation , paradox , and questionable  narrators   ,   और   is  often ( though not exclusively  )  defined as a style or trend which emerged in the post–World War II era .
Postmodern works  हैं  seen as a reaction against Enlightenment thinking and Modernist approaches to literature .
postmodern  literature , like postmodernism  as  a whole , tends to resist definition  or  classification as  a  `` movement ''  .
बेशक  , the convergence of postmodern literature with various modes of critical theory , particularly reader-response  और  deconstructionist approaches , and the subversions of the implicit  अनुबंध  between author , text and reader by which its  works  are often characterised , have led to pre-modern fictions such as Cervantes ' Don  quixote  ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence Sterne 's eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy  होने  retrospectively  inducted  into the fold .
While there is little consensus on the  precise  characteristics , scope , and importance of postmodern literature , as is often the  मामला  with artistic movements , postmodern  साहित्य  is commonly defined in relation to a precursor .
For example , a postmodern literary work tends not to conclude with  the  neatly tied-up ending as is often found in modernist literature , but often parodies it .
Postmodern authors  tend  to celebrate chance over craft , and further employ metafiction to undermine the writer  's  authority .
Another characteristic  of  postmodern literature  is  the questioning of distinctions between high and low culture through the use of pastiche ,  the  combination of subjects and genres not previously deemed fit for literature .
Enigma is an electronic musical project founded in Germany by Michael Cretu , David Fairstein and Frank  पीटरसन  in 1990 .
The Romanian-born Cretu conceived the Enigma project while working in Germany , but based his recording  स्टुडियो  A.R.T . Studios in Ibiza , Spain , from  the  early 1990s until May 2009 , where he has recorded all of Enigma 's studio releases to date  .
Cretu is both the composer and the producer of the project .
His  पूर्व  wife , pop singer Sandra , often provided vocals on Enigma tracks  .
Jens Gad co-arranged  और  played guitar  on  three of the Enigma albums .
Peter Cornelius also contributed to Enigma during the 1990s .
Seven studio albums have been produced under the name of  the   प्रोजेक्ट  .
Scooby-Doo is an American animated cartoon franchise , comprising several animated television series produced from 1969 to the present day .
The original  श्रेणी  , Scooby-Doo , Where Are You !
, was created for Hanna-Barbera Productions by writers Joe Ruby and Ken Spears in 1969 .
इस  Saturday morning cartoon  श्रेणी  featured four teenagers— Fred Jones , Daphne Blake , Velma Dinkley , and Norville `` Shaggy '' Rogers — and their talking brown Great Dane dog named Scooby-Doo  ,  who solve mysteries involving supposedly supernatural  जीव  through a series of  हरकतों  and missteps .
Following the success of the original series , Hanna-Barbera and  इसके  successor Warner Bros . Animation  have  produced numerous follow-up and spin-off animated series and several related works , including television specials  और  telefilms , a line of direct-to-video films , and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films .
Some versions of Scooby-Doo feature different variations  on  the show 's supernatural theme  ,  and include characters  ऐसे  as Scooby 's cousin Scooby-Dum and  भतीजे  Scrappy-Doo in addition to or instead of some of the original characters .
Scooby-Doo was originally broadcast on CBS from  1969  to 1976 , when it moved to ABC .
ABC aired the show until canceling it in 1986 , and presented  a  spin-off featuring the characters as children , A Pup Named Scooby-Doo  ,  from 1988 until  1991  .
Two new Scooby-Doo series , What 's New , Scooby-Doo ?
and Shaggy and Scooby-Doo Get a a  सुराग  ! ] ] , aired as part of Kids  wb  on The WB network  और  its  successor  , The CW network , from 2002 until 2008 .
The most recent  scooby-doo  series , Scooby-Doo !
Mystery  incorporated  , aired on Cartoon Network from 2010 to 2013 .
Repeats of  the  various Scooby-Doo series are  ब्रॉडकास्ट  frequently on Cartoon Network and  boomerang  in the United  राज्य  and other countries .
Call of  ड्यूटी  is a first-person and third-person shooter computer/ video game franchise .
The series began on the PC , and later expanded to consoles and handhelds .
Several spin-off games have also been released .
The earlier games in the series  हैं  set primarily in World War II  ,  this includes : Call of Duty , Call of Duty 2 , and Call of Duty 3 .
Beginning with Modern Warfare , which  is   नियत   in  modern  टाइम्स   ,  the series has shifted focus away from World War II .
Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare ( released  नवम्बर  2007 ) was  followed  by Call  of  Duty : World at War and Call of Duty : Modern  warfare  2  .
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the Cold War , while Modern Warfare 3 (  released  November 2011 ) takes place in the near-future setting .
Black Ops 2 ( Released November 13  ,  2012 ) takes place in the year 2025 .
The  कॉल  of Duty games are published and owned  by  Activision with Aspyr Media publishing it for Apple OS X .
While the studio Infinity Ward primarily still develops them ,  treyarch  has also developed several of the titles with the release of the  studios  ' games interlaced with each other  .
Some games have been developed by Gray Matter Interactive ,  चिंगारी  Unlimited , Amaze Entertainment ,  n-space  , Rebellion Developments , Ideaworks Game Studio , Sledgehammer Games and nStigate Games .
The  खेल  use a  किस्में  of engines , including  the  id Tech 3 ,  the  Treyarch NGL , and  the  IW 5.0 .
Other  उत्पाद  in the  मताधिकार  include a line  of  action figures designed by Plan-B Toys , a card game created by Upper  डेक  , and a comic book mini-series published by WildStorm .
As of November 11 , 2011 , the  कॉल  Of Duty series have sold over 100 million  नक़ल  .
As of March  31  , 2012 there are 40 million monthly active players  आरपार   सब  of the Call of Duty  शीर्षक  , with 10 million Call of  ड्यूटी  : Elite users and 2 million paying annual members .
Over 1.6 billion hours of online gameplay have  महरूम   logged  Modern Warfare 3 since its 2011 release .
The estate tax in the United States is a tax imposed  on  the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased person ,  whether  such property is transferred via a will , according  to   the  state laws of intestacy or otherwise made  as  an  घटना   of  the death of the owner , such as a transfer of property from an intestate estate or trust , or the payment of certain life insurance benefits or financial account sums to beneficiaries .
The estate tax is one part of the  एकीकृत  Gift and Estate Tax system in the United States .
the  other part of the system , the gift tax , imposes a tax on transfers of property during a person 's life ; the gift tax prevents avoidance  of  the estate tax should a person want to give away his/her estate .
In addition to the federal government , many states also impose an estate tax ,  साथ  the state version called either an estate tax  or  an inheritance tax .
Opponents of the estate tax call it the `` death tax ''  .
If an  एसेट  is left to a spouse or  a  Federally recognized charity , the tax usually does not apply .
In addition , up to $  5,250,000  can be given by an individual , before and/or upon their death  ,  without incurring federal gift  or   एस्टेट  taxes .
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 October 1967 ) is  an  English actor and musician , known as  the  lead  सिंगर  and rhythm guitarist of the rock band Bush .
Following Bush 's separation in 2002 , which lasted  लिये  eight years , he was the lead singer and guitarist for Institute , and later  began   a  solo career .
When performing solo , Gavin plays songs from his extensive musical libraries .
Rossdale has been ranked in the Top 100 Heavy Metal Vocalists by Hit Parader ( # 75  )  .
Raffaello  sanzio  da Urbino ( April 6 or March 28  ,  1483 – April 6 , 1520 ) , better known simply as Raphael , was an Italian painter  और  architect of the High  पुनर्जागरण   .
His work is admired for  इसके  clarity of form and ease of composition and for its visual achievement of the Neoplatonic ideal of human grandeur .
Together with Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci , he forms the  परंपरागत  trinity of great masters of that period .
राफेल  was enormously productive , running an unusually large workshop , and  despite  his death at 37 , a large body of his work remains .
अनेक  of his works are  मिला  in  the  Vatican Palace , where the frescoed Raphael Rooms  यहूद  the central  ,  and the largest , work of his  करियर  .
The  बेहतरीन  known work is The School of Athens in the Vatican Stanza della Segnatura .
After his early  सालो  in Rome much of his work was self-designed , but for the most part executed by the workshop from his drawings  ,  with considerable loss of quality .
He was extremely influential in his lifetime , though outside Rome his work was mostly known from his collaborative printmaking .
After his death , the influence of his great rival Michelangelo was more widespread until the 18th and 19th centuries , when Raphael 's more serene  और  harmonious qualities were again regarded as the highest models .
His career  जलप्रपात  naturally into three phases and three  शैलियाँ  , first described by Giorgio Vasari : his early years in Umbria , then a period of about four years (  इससे  1504–1508 ) absorbing the  कलाकारी  traditions of Florence , followed by his last  hectic  and triumphant twelve  सालो  in Rome , working for two Popes and their close  शरीक  .
Julia Fiona Roberts ( born October 28 , 1967 ) is an  अमरीकी  actress .
She became a Hollywood star after headlining the romantic comedy Pretty Woman ( 1990 ) , which grossed $ 464 million worldwide .
After receiving Golden  ग्लोब  Awards and Academy Award nominations for Steel Magnolias ( 1989 ) and Pretty Woman  ,  she won the Academy Award for Best  अभिनेत्री   लिये  her performance in Erin  brockovich  ( 2000 ) .
Her films The Pelican Brief (  1993  ) , My Best  dost  's Wedding ( 1997 ) , Mystic Pizza ( 1988 ) , Notting Hill  (  1999 ) , Runaway Bride ( 1999 ) ,  समंदर  's Eleven ( 2001 ) , Ocean  's  Twelve ( 2004 ) , Charlie Wilson 's War (  2007  ) , Valentine 's  दिन  ( 2010 ) , Eat Pray Love (  2010  ) ,  और  Mirror Mirror ( 2012 ) have collectively  brought  box office receipts of over $ 2.6 billion , making her one of the most successful actresses in terms of box  दफ्तर  receipts .
Roberts had become one of the highest-paid  अभिनेत्रियों  in the world , topping The Hollywood Reporters annual `` power  सूची  '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006 .
उसके  fee for  1990   's  Pretty Woman was $  300,000  ; in 2003 , she was paid an unprecedented $ 25 million for her role in Mona Lisa Smile ( 2003 ) .
As of 2010 , Roberts 's net worth was estimated to be $ 140 million .
Roberts  रै   महरूम   नामित  one of People magazine 's `` 50 Most  खूबसूरत  People in the World '' eleven times , tied with Halle  बेरी  .
In 2011 , she was named one of the `` 100 Hottest Women of  all-time  '' by Men 's Health  .
In  2001  , Ladies Home Journal ranked her as the  11th  most powerful woman in the United States .
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg (  born  May 14 , 1984  )   is  an American computer programmer and Internet entrepreneur  .
He is best known as one of five co-founders of the social networking website Facebook .
As of April 2013 ,  zuckerberg  is the chairman and chief executive of Facebook , Inc. and in 2013 his personal wealth was estimated to be  us  $ 13 .3 billion .
Together with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin  ,  Andrew  mccollum  , Dustin Moskovitz and  क्रिस  Hughes , Zuckerberg launched Facebook from Harvard 's dormitory rooms .
The group then introduced Facebook onto other  campuses  nationwide and moved to Palo Alto , California , United States ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards .
In 2007 , at the age of twenty-three years  ,  Zuckerberg became a billionaire as a result of Facebook and the number of Facebook users worldwide reached a total of one billion in  2012  .
Zuckerberg was involved in various legal disputes that were initiated by others in the group , who claimed  a  share of the company based upon  उनके  involvement during the development phase of Facebook .
Since 2010 , Zuckerberg has  महरूम  named among  the  100 wealthiest and most influential  लोगों  in the world by Time magazine as  a  part of its Person of the Year accolade .
Zuckerberg was  निभाई  by actor Jesse Eisenberg in the 2010 Hollywood film The  सोशल  Network  in  which the rise  of  Facebook is portrayed .
The  mayflower  was the ship that in 1620  transported  102  अंग्रेज़ी  Pilgrims , including a  कोर  group of Separatists , to New England .
Their story is one of travail and survival in a  हर्ष  New World environment .
framedthe
Committee of  तरीके  and Means is the chief tax -writing committee of the  संयुक्त  States House of Representatives  .
Members of the Ways and Means Committee  हैं  not allowed to serve on any other House Committees unless  वे  apply for a waiver from their party 's congressional leadership .
The Committee has jurisdiction over all taxation , tariffs and other revenue-raising measures , as  खूब  as a number of  अन्य  programs including:
Social  सुरक्षा
Unemployment benefits
Medicare
Enforcement of child support laws
Temporary  सहायता  for Needy Families , a federal welfare  कार्यक्रम
Foster care and  अपनाना  programs
The U.S.  संविधान  requires that all bills regarding taxation must originate in the  हाउस   of  Representatives .
Since  हाउस  procedure is that all  बिल्स  regarding taxation must go through this committee , the  कमेटी  is very influential , as is its Senate counterpart , the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance .
The Ways and Means Committee  in  the 111th Congress was  chaired  by Charlie Rangel , who had  लिया  a leave of absence  as  chairman until House ethics violations were resolved .
However , his  छोड़  of absence as chairman was ruled to be a resignation .
Pete Stark resigned as  एक्टिंग  chairman , so Sander Levin held that position until  the  start of the 112th Congress .
Dave Camp became the committee chair for the 112th Congress , after the Republicans won control of the House in the 2010 election .
The blue whale  (  Balaenoptera musculus )  is  a marine mammal belonging to the suborder  of  baleen whales ( called Mysticeti ) .
At  in  length and or more in weight , it is the largest known animal to have ever existed .
Long and slender , the blue whale 's body  can  be various shades of bluish-grey dorsally and somewhat lighter  underneath  .
There are at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the  उत्तर  Atlantic and North Pacific ,  B.  m. intermedia of the Southern Ocean and B. m. brevicauda  (  also known  as  the pygmy  ब्लू  whale ) found in the  भारतीय  Ocean and South Pacific Ocean  .
B. m. indica , found in the Indian Ocean ,  may  be another subspecies .
As with other baleen whales , its diet consists almost exclusively  of  small  crustaceans  known as  krill   .
Blue whales were abundant in nearly all the oceans on Earth  जबतक  the  शुरूआत  of the twentieth century .
लिये  over a century ,  वे  were hunted almost to extinction by whalers until protected by the international community in 1966 .
A 2002 report  अनुमानित  there were 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales  विश्वव्यापी  , located in at least five groups .
More recent research into the Pygmy subspecies suggests this may  be  an underestimate .
Before whaling , the largest population was in the Antarctic , numbering approximately 239,000 ( range 202,000 to 311,000 ) .
There  remain  only much  छोटी  ( around 2,000 ) concentrations in each of the eastern North Pacific , Antarctic , and Indian Ocean groups .
There are two more groups in the North Atlantic , and at  तनिक  two in the Southern Hemisphere .
The globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var . scolymus ) is a variety of a species of thistle  cultivated  as a food .
The edible matter is buds that  रूप  within the flower heads before the flowers come into bloom .
the  buds go  दूर  or change to  a  coarse , barely edible form when the flower blooms .
The uncultivated or  जंगली  variety  of  the  प्रजाति  is called a cardoon .
It  is  a perennial plant native to the Mediterranean region .
The United States one  hundred-dollar  bill (  $  100 ) is  a  denomination of United States currency .
U.S. statesman , inventor , and diplomat Benjamin  फ्रैंकलिन  is currently featured on the obverse  of  the bill .
On the reverse of the  banknote  is an image of Independence Hall .
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has been printed since July 13 , 1969 , when  the  denominations of $ 500 ,  $  1,000 , $ 5,000 , and $ 10,000 were retired .
The Bureau  of  Engraving  और  Printing says the average life of a $ 100 bill in circulation is 90 months ( 7.5 years ) before it is replaced due to  पहनें  and  आंसू  .
The bills are also commonly referred to as ``  benjamins  ''  ,  in reference to the use of Benjamin Franklin 's portrait on the denomination , or ``  c-notes  '' , based on the  रोमन  numeral for 100 .
The bill is  एक  of two denominations printed today  कि  does not feature a  अध्यक्ष  of the United States ; the other is the $ 10 bill  ,  featuring  सिकंदर  Hamilton .
The  समय  on the clock  of  Independence  हॉल  on the reverse , according to the U.S.  ब्यूरो  of Engraving and  मुद्रण  , shows approximately 4:10 .
One hundred  hundred-dollar  bills are delivered  by  Federal Reserve Banks in  mustard-colored  straps ( $ 10,000 ) .
The Series 2009 $ 100  विधेयक  redesign was unveiled on April 21 , 2010 , and  थी  to be issued to the public on February 11 , 2011 , but production was shut down in December 2010 because as  अनेक  as 30 % were unusable due to a manufacturing flaw  .
A vertical crease in the paper reveals a blank space on the bill when pulled out  .
In their replacement , and continuing the high demand of this  denomination   ,  the Series 2006A was launched retaining the previous design ( 1996-generation ) .
On April  24  , 2013 , the Federal  आरक्षित  announced the new $ 100 bill would enter circulation on October 8 , 2013  .
किंग  David in robes of a Byzantine emperor .
Miniature from the Paris Psalter .
David ( ; ISO 259-3 Dawid ; ' ; Strong  's  : Daveed ) according to the  यहूदी  Bible , was the second king of the United Kingdom of Israel , and according to the  नई  Testament Gospels of Matthew and  ल्यूक  , an ancestor of Jesus .
His life is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970 BCE , his reign over Judah c. 1010–1002 BCE , and his reign over the United  किंगडम  of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE .
The  किताबे   of   सैमुएल  , 1 Kings , and 1 Chronicles are the  तभी  sources of information on David , although the Tel Dan  stele  ( dated c. 850–835 BCE ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ) , read as `` House of David '' ,  जिससे  most scholars take as confirmation of the existence in the mid-9th century BCE of  a  Judean royal dynasty  पुकारा  the House  of   दाउद  .
He  is  depicted  as  a righteous king , although not without faults , as well as  an  acclaimed warrior , musician , and poet , traditionally credited for composing many of the psalms  contained   in  the Book  of  Psalms .
David is  सेंट्रल  to Jewish , Christian , and Islamic doctrine and culture .
Biblical tradition maintains that a direct descendant of David will be the  मसीहा  .
In Islam he is considered to be a prophet and the king of a nation .
Kathmandu ( ; )  is  the capital and largest urban agglomerate of  नेपाल   .
The agglomerate consists of Kathmandu Metropolitan City at its core , and its sister  शहरों  Patan , Kirtipur , Thimi , and Bhaktapur .
It also  शामिल  the recently recognized urban areas of Shankhapur , Karyabinayak , and Champapur .
banepa  , Dhulikhel , and Panauti are satellite urban areas of Kathmandu located just outside the Kathmandu valley .
Kathmandu is also known informally as  ``  KTM '' or  the  `` tri-city  ''  .
According to a census  conducted   in  2011 , Kathmandu metropolis alone has 975,453 inhabitants ; and the agglomerate has a population of more than 2.5 million inhabitants .
The metropolitan  नगर  area is and has a population density of 19,250 per km2  .
the  city stands at an elevation of approximately in the bowl-shaped Kathmandu Valley  of  central Nepal  .
It is surrounded  by  four  प्रमुख  mountains : Shivapuri , Phulchoki , Nagarjun , and Chandragiri .
Kathmandu Valley is part of three districts ( Kathmandu , Lalitpur , and Bhaktapur ) , has the highest population density in the country , and  is  home to  परिचय  a twelfth of Nepal 's population  .
During Rana and Shah  eras  , the name `` Nepal '' referred only to the Kathmandu Valley ; it was what people who lived outside the valley called it .
दौरान  this period , British historians  पुकारा  the valley itself `` Nepal Proper '' .
Today , Kathmandu  is  not only  the   पूंजी  of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal , but also the headquarters of the  सेंट्रल   विकास  Region of Nepal  .
The  सेंट्रल  Region comprises three zones  :  Bagmati , Narayani , and Janakpur .
Kathmandu is located in the Bagmati Zone .
Kathmandu is the gateway to tourism in Nepal .
It is also the nerve center of the country 's economy .
It has the  सबसे  advanced infrastructure of any urban area in Nepal , and its economy is focused on tourism , which accounted for 3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in  1995–96   .
( Tourism in Kathmandu declined thereafter during a period of political  अशांति  , but since then has improved  .  )
The city has  a  rich history , spanning nearly 2000 years , as inferred from inscriptions found in the valley  .
Religious and cultural festivities form a major part of the lives of people residing  in  Kathmandu .
Most of Kathmandu 's people follow Hinduism and  अनेक  others  follow  Buddhism .
There are people of other  धार्मिक  beliefs as well , giving Kathmandu  a   कॉस्मोपॉलिटन  culture .
Nepali is the most commonly  बोला  language  in  the city .
Nepal Bhasa is the indigenous language  बोला  by the Newar people  .
Hindi is widely understood and English is understood by Kathmandu 's educated residents .
The city 's literacy rate is 98 % .
Kathmandu 's sister cities (  ललितपुर  Patan )  और  Bhaktapur are integral to Kathmandu 's cultural heritage , tourism industry ,  और   अर्थव्यवस्था  ; therefore UNESCO 's  संसार  Heritage Site lists all three cities ' monuments and attractions together under one heading , `` Kathmandu Valley- UNESCO World Heritage Site `` .
Field hockey , usually referred to simply as hockey  ,  is a team  खेल  of the hockey family which is played between two teams of eleven players with hockey sticks and a hard  ,  solid plastic ball  .
At the turn of the 21st century  ,   the  game is played globally , with particular popularity  throughout  Europe , Asia , Oceania , and South America – in addition to being  the  national sport of Pakistan and India  .
The  पद   ``  field hockey '' is used primarily in  कनाडा  , the United States , and other regions of the world where the sport  of  ice hockey is more popular .
दौरान   खेल  , goal keepers are the only  खिलाड़ी  who  हैं  allowed to touch the ball with any part of their body ( with the exception of a player 's hand considered 'part of the stick ' ) , with this only applying within the shooting circle ( also  ज्ञात  as the  d  ,  or  shooting arc , or just the circle ) , while field players play the ball with the flat side of their stick .
The team that scores  the  most goals by the end of  the  match wins .
If the score is tied at the  समाप्त  of the game ,  either  a draw is declared or  the  game goes into extra time and/or a penalty shootout , depending on  the  competition 's format .
The governing body  of  hockey is the International Hockey Federation ( FIH )  ,  with men and women being represented internationally in competitions including the Olympic games  ,  Commonwealth  खेल  , Hockey World Cup , Champions Trophy and Junior Hockey World Cup , with many countries running extensive junior  ,  senior , and masters ' club competitions .
the  FIH is also responsible for organising the Hockey Rules Board and developing the rules for the sport .
A popular variant of field hockey is indoor hockey , which differs in a number of respects while  मूर्त  the primary  सिद्धान्त   of  hockey .
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side variant , with a field which is reduced to approximately 40m × 20m .
With many of the rules remaining the same , including obstruction and feet , there are several key variations - Players  may  not raise the  बॉल  unless shooting on goal , players may not hit the  बॉल  ( instead utilising pushes to transfer the ball ) , and the sidelines are replaced with solid barriers which the  बॉल  will rebound off .
Ethan `` Cane  ''  Ashby ( né Atkinson ) is a fictional character from the American CBS soap opera The Young and the Restless .
He is portrayed by  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई   कर्ता  Daniel Goddard , who originally auditioned for Brad Snyder on As the World  turns  but was recommended for a role on The Young and the  बेचैन  instead .
The role was to be  portrayed  as an American  ,  but Goddard 's Australian descent influenced the character 's  पृष्ठभूमि  .
Former head  लेखक  Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the episode airing on January 12 , 2007 as an Australian bartender in search of his family , a  डेब्यू   कि  received  a  mixed response  .
Latham created Cane as  the  son of Phillip  चांसलर  II  (  Donnelly Rhodes ) and Jill Foster Abbott  (  Jess Walton ) but the character 's background was rewritten by Maria Arena Bell in 2009 , reestablishing him as the son of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and Genie Francis ) .
हालांकि  characterized as `` mysterious '' , Cane is `` loyal and  समर्पित   ''  , while Goddard described the  अक्षर  as a `` typical Australian , working-class kind of  guy  '' .
He was the first member of the  एटकिन्सन  family to appear on the  श्रेणी  , followed by his  अभिभावक  and  एकसमान  twin brother .
Soon after  उसके  debut , he became a leading character , a  निर्णय  praised by viewers and critics .
The character has been involved with Amber Moore  (  Adrienne Frantz ) , Chloe Mitchell ( Elizabeth Hendrickson ) and most  notably  Lily Winters ( Christel Khalil ) , a romance that garnered significant  प्रशंसक  attention .
in  2009 , Cane and Lily were married ; Global  bc  would later  कॉल   लिली  the love of Cane 's life .
The pair had two children , Charlie and Mattie Ashby .
In  2011  , the actor was fired , and Cane was shot to death onscreen .
However ,  गोडार्ड  was rehired soon after viewers campaigned for his return ,  revealing  that Cane 's identical twin brother was in  फैक्ट  the man who died .
This sacrificed his  विवाह  to Lily  ,  but the couple were remarried on Valentine 's Day in 2012 .
Goddard  रै  been widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; Canyon News said that he portrays the character  honestly  , and is `` always dependable  ,  on fire and exciting ''  .
John Christopher `` Johnny '' Depp II  (  born June  9  , 1963 )  is   an   अमरीकी  actor , film  निर्माता  , and musician .
He has won the Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild award for Best Actor .
Depp rose to prominence on the 1980s  टेलीविज़न  series 21 Jump Street ,  बनने  a teen idol .
Dissatisfied with that status , Depp turned to film for more challenging roles ; he played the  शीर्षक  character of the acclaimed Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) and later found box office  कामयाबी  in films such as Sleepy  खोखला  (  1999  ) ,  चार्ली  and the Chocolate Factory ( 2005 ) , Alice in Wonderland (  2010   )   ,   rango  ( 2011 ) and the Pirates  of  the Caribbean film series ( 2003–present ) .
He has collaborated with director and friend Tim Burton in eight films ; the most  हाल  being Dark Shadows (  2012   )   .
डेप  has gained acclaim for  उसके  portrayals of such people  as  Ed Wood in Ed Wood , Joseph D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco , Hunter S. Thompson  in  Fear and  loathing  in Las Vegas , George Jung in Blow , and the bank robber John Dillinger in Michael Mann 's Public Enemies .
Films  featuring  Depp have  grossed  over $ 3.1 billion at the United States box office and over $ 7.6 billion worldwide .
He has been nominated for top awards  अनेक  times , winning the Best Actor Awards from the Golden –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy Globes –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy for Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street and from the Screen Actors Guild for Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse  of   the  Black Pearl .
he  also has garnered a  sex  symbol status in American cinema , being twice named as the `` Sexiest Man Alive `` by People magazine in 2003 and 2009 .
He has been listed in the 2012 Guinness Book of World  रिकॉर्ड  as the highest paid actor ,  साथ  $ 75 million .
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or  w3  , commonly known as the web )  ,  is a system of interlinked hypertext documents  पहुँचा  via the  अंतरजाल  .
With  a  web browser , one can  दृश्य  web pages  कि  may contain text , images , videos  ,  and other multimedia , and navigate between them via  hyperlinks  .
Using concepts from his  पहले  hypertext systems like ENQUIRE , British engineer , computer scientist and at that time  कर्मचारी  of the CERN , Sir Tim Berners-Lee , now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) , wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide  वेब  .
At CERN , a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland  ,  Berners-Lee  और  Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext ``  to   कड़ी  and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse  at  will '' ,  और  they publicly introduced  the  project in  दिसम्बर  of the same year .
Mark  ट्रैविस  John  सांचेज़  (  born  November 11  ,  1986 ) is an American football  क्वार्टरबैक  for the New York Jets of the National Football League (  एनएफएल  ) .
He was drafted in  the  first round of the  2009  NFL Draft as the fifth overall selection by the Jets and the second quarterback taken overall .
He played college football at the University of  दक्षिणी  California ( USC ) .
Sanchez grew up in a well-disciplined and athletic family .
In the eighth grade , he began to play football and  सीख  the intricacies of  the  quarterback position , training with his father  ,  Nick .
A well-regarded prospect , Sanchez committed  to  Southern California following his successful high school career in which  he  led his team to a championship title during his  फाइनल  season .
at  USC , Sanchez  थी  relegated as the backup quarterback during his  पहला  three  सालो  though  he  rose to prominence due to his brief appearances  on  the field in 2007 due to injuries suffered by starting quarterback John David Booty .
Sanchez  भी  became popular within the community due to his Mexican-American  विरासत  .
Named the starter in 2008 , Sanchez led USC to a 12–1 record and  जीती  the Rose Bowl against Penn State for which Sanchez was awarded the Most Valuable Player award for his performance on offense .
हालांकि  many  माना  him too inexperienced ,  सांचेज़   घोषित  his intention to enter the 2009 NFL Draft .
He  थी  selected by the  jets  after  वे  traded up with  the  Cleveland Browns , and was named the starting  क्वार्टरबैक  prior to the start of the  ऋतु  .
Despite a subpar performance , Sanchez led the Jets to the AFC Championship Game , a losing effort to the Indianapolis Colts , becoming the fourth rookie quarterback in NFL history to win  उसके  first playoff game and the second to win two playoff games .
In his second season , Sanchez continued to develop and led the Jets to the playoffs and the team 's second consecutive AFC Championship Game  जहाँ  they narrowly lost  to  the Pittsburgh Steelers , 24–19 .
With the  जीत  over the New  इंग्लैण्ड  Patriots the week prior , Sanchez tied  चार  other quarterbacks for the second most post-season  सड़क  victories by a quarterback  in  NFL history .
in  leading the Jets to two consecutive conference championships  ,  Sanchez joined quarterback Ben Roethlisberger as the only two quarterbacks in NFL history to reach the conference championship in their first two seasons in the league  .
The next two seasons would be a  स्लोप  for both the team and Sanchez as they failed to reach the playoffs .
Fans and media critics called for a struggling Sanchez  to  be benched .
He  आखिरकार   थी  replaced towards  the  end of the 2012 season  साथ  Greg McElroy .
Paul Avery ( April 2  ,  1934December 10 , 2000 ) was an  अमरीकी  police reporter ,  बेहतरीन  known for his stories on the infamous  सीरियल  killer known as the Zodiac , and later for his work on the Patricia Hearst kidnapping .
A small submersible AC sump pump with a garden  नली  connector
A sump pump is a pump used to remove water that  रै   संचित  in a water  collecting  sump basin , commonly found in  the  basement of homes .
The water may enter  via  the perimeter drains of a basement waterproofing system , funneling into the basin  or  because of rain or natural ground water ,  if  the  तहखाने  is below the water table level .
Sump pumps  हैं  used  जहाँ  basement flooding happens  regularly  and to remedy dampness where the water table is above the foundation of  a  home .
Sump pumps send  जल  away from a house to any place where it is no longer  समस्यापूर्ण  , such as a municipal storm drain or  a  dry  खूब  .
Pumps may discharge to the sanitary sewer in older installations .
Once considered acceptable , this practice may now violate the plumbing code or municipal bylaws , because it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system .
Municipalities  urge  homeowners to disconnect and reroute sump pump discharge away from sanitary sewers  .
Fines may be imposed for  noncompliance  .
Many homeowners have inherited their sump pump  configurations  and do not realize that the pump discharges  to  the sewer .
If the discharge is fed to a laundry sink in the basement , it 's likely going to the sewer .
Usually hardwired into a home 's electrical system , sump pumps  may  have a battery backup .
The home 's  pressurized  water supply powers some pumps , eliminating the need for  विद्युत  at the expense of using potable water , potentially making them  अधिक  expensive to operate than electrical  पंपों  and creating  an  additional water disposal problem .
Since  a  sump basin may overflow if not constantly pumped , a backup  प्रणाली  is important for cases when the main power is out for prolonged periods of time , as during a severe storm .
There are generally two types of sump pumps — pedestal and submersible .
The  pedestal  pump 's motor is mounted  ऊपर   the  sump ,  जहाँ   it   is  more easily serviced , but is  भी  more conspicuous .
The pump impeller is  चलित   by  a long , vertical extension shaft and the impeller is in a scroll housing in the base of the pump .
The submersible pump is entirely mounted inside  the  sump , and is  विशेषकर  sealed to prevent electrical short circuits .
Sump pump systems are also utilized in industrial and commercial applications to control water table -related problems in surface soil .
An artesian  aquifer  or periodic high water table situation can cause the ground  to  become unstable due to water saturation .
As long as the pump  कृत्यों  , the surface soil will remain stable .
These sumps  हैं  typically ten feet  in  depth or  अधिक  ; lined with corrugated metal pipe that contains perforations or  नाली  holes throughout  .
They may include electronic control systems with visual and audible alarms and are usually covered  to  prevent debris and animals from falling in  .
Bleeding Kansas , Bloody Kansas or the Border War , was a series of violent political confrontations involving anti-slavery Free-Staters and pro-slavery `` Border Ruffian `` elements , that took place in the Kansas Territory and the neighboring towns of Missouri between 1854 and 1861  .
At the heart of the conflict was the question of whether Kansas would enter the Union as a free state or slave state .
As  ऐसे  , Bleeding Kansas was a proxy war between Northerners and Southerners over the issue of slavery in the  संयुक्त  States .
the  term `` Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by Horace Greeley of the New York Tribune ; the events it encompasses directly presaged  the  American Civil War .
Congress had long struggled to balance the interests of pro-slavery forces and anti-slavery forces .
The events later  ज्ञात  as Bleeding Kansas were set into motion by  the  Kansas–Nebraska Act  of  1854 , which nullified the Missouri Compromise and instead implemented the  अवधारणा  of popular sovereignty  .
An ostensibly  लोकतांत्रिक  idea , popular sovereignty stated that the inhabitants of each territory or state should decide whether it would be a free  or  slave state ; however , this resulted in immigration en masse to Kansas by activists from both sides  .
At one point , Kansas had two separate  सरकारें  , each with its own constitution  ,  although only one was federally recognized .
On January 29 , 1861 , Kansas was admitted to the Union as a free state , less than  तीन  months before the Battle of Fort Sumter which began the Civil War .
बेंजीन  is an organic chemical compound  साथ  the molecular formula C6 H|Hydrogen|H6 .
Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring , with 1 hydrogen atom attached  to  each carbon atom .
Because its molecules contain only carbon  और  hydrogen  अणु   ,   बेंजीन  is classed as a  हाइड्रोकार्बन  .
Benzene is a natural constituent of  crude  oil , and is one  of  the most basic petrochemicals .
Benzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon and  the  second [  n  ] - annulene  (  [ 6 ] -annulene ) ,  a   चक्रीय  hydrocarbon with a continuous pi bond .
it  is sometimes abbreviated Ph –H . Benzene is a colorless and highly flammable liquid with  a  sweet smell .
It is mainly used as a  precursor  to heavy chemicals , such as ethylbenzene and cumene , which are produced on a billion  किलोग्राम  scale .
Because it has a high octane number ,  it  is  an  important component of gasoline , composing a few percent of its mass .
Most non-industrial applications have been limited by benzene 's carcinogenicity .
Giovanni Virginio Schiaparelli ( ; 14  कूच  1835 – 4 July 1910 ) was an Italian astronomer and science historian .
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of Nintendo 's Wii game  कंसोल  to run software that has not been authorized by Nintendo  .
It achieves this by  defeating  the Wii 's copy protection and code signing measures .
In more general terms  ,  Wii Homebrew refers to the use of the Wii 's hardware , accessories and software for purposes outside those intended by the  निर्माता  .
Original  प्रयत्न  focused on using the Wii Remote as a pointing device on  अन्य  operating systems , or running web-based games in the built-in web browser .
Subsequent developments in  खेल  exploits , such as the `` Twilight hack `` , `` Bannerbomb '' and its later incarnation `` LetterBomb '' , `` Smash Stack '' ,  ``  Indiana  pwns  '' , `` Yu-Gi-OWNED '' , `` bathaxx '' , and `` Return of the Jodi '' , made installing the `` Homebrew Channel `` possible .
Hadley ( right ) discussing the 2006 Israel-Lebanon crisis with Bush and Rice .
Stephen John Hadley (  born  February 13 , 1947 ) was the 21st U.S. Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs  (  commonly referred as National Security Advisor ) , serving under President George W. Bush .
Take identical growing plants  और  give fertilizer to half of them .
If there are differences between the fertilized plant group and the unfertilized  ``  control '' group , these  मतभेद  may be due to the fertilizer .
a  scientific  कंट्रोल  is an experiment  or  observation designed  to  minimize the effects of  परिवर्तनीय  other than the single  स्वतंत्र  variable  .
This  increases  the reliability of the results , often through a  तुलना   between   कंट्रोल  measurements and the other measurements .
वैज्ञानिक  controls  हैं  a part of  the  scientific method .
For example , during drug testing , scientists will try to control two groups to keep them  as  identical as possible , then allow one group to try the drug .
Another example might be testing plant fertilizer by giving it to  तभी  half the plants in a garden : the plants that receive no fertilizer are the control group ,  क्युकी  they establish  the  baseline level  of  growth that the fertilizer-treated plants  होगा  be compared against  .
Without a control  समूह  , the experiment can not determine whether the  fertilizer-treated  plants grow more than they would have if untreated  .
Ideally , all  परिवर्तनीय  in  an  experiment will be controlled (  accounted  for by the control measurements ) and none  होगा  be uncontrolled .
In such an experiment , if all the controls work as expected , it is possible to conclude that the experiment is working  as  intended and that the results of the experiment are due to the  प्रभाव  of the variable being tested .
That is ,  वैज्ञानिक  controls  allow  an investigator to make a claim like `` Two situations were identical until  फ़ैक्टर  X occurred .
Since factor X is the only difference between  the  two situations , the  नई  outcome was caused by  फ़ैक्टर  X . ''
< < Chemical elements data references
जॉन  Adams ( October 30 , 1735 ( O.S . October  19  , 1735 ) – July 4 , 1826 ) was the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ) , having  पहले  served as the first vice president of the United  राज्य   .
An American  founding  Father , he was  a  statesman , diplomat , and a leading advocate of American independence from Great Britain .
Well educated , he was  an  Enlightenment political theorist who promoted republicanism and wrote  prolifically  about his often seminal ideas , both in published works and in letters to his wife and key  adviser  Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers .
Adams  आए  to prominence in the early stages of the  अमरीकी  Revolution .
A lawyer and public figure in Boston , as a delegate from Massachusetts  to  the Continental Congress , he  निभाई  a leading role  in  persuading Congress to declare independence .
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the  घोषणा  of Independence in 1776 , and was its primary advocate in the Congress .
Later ,  as   a  diplomat in Europe  ,  he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty with Great  ब्रिटेन  ,  और  was  जिम्मेदार  for obtaining vital governmental loans  इससे  Amsterdam bankers .
A political theorist  और   इतिहासकार  , Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780 , which together with his earlier Thoughts on Government , influenced American political thought  .
One of his greatest roles  थी  as a judge of  अक्षर  : in 1775 , he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief ,  और  25 years  बाद  nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United  राज्य  .
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two terms as George Washington 's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president .
During  उसके  one term , he  encountered  ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans , as well as the dominant faction in his own Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition  अधिनियमों  , and  निर्मित  up  the   फौज  and  नेवी  especially in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France , 1798–1800 .
The major accomplishment of his  प्रेसिडेंसी  was his peaceful resolution  of  the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition .
In 1800 , Adams was defeated for re-election by  थामस  Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts .
He  बाद  resumed his friendship with Jefferson .
He and his wife , Abigail Adams , founded an accomplished family  लकीर  of politicians , diplomats , and historians  अभी   referred  to as the Adams political family .
Adams was the father of John Quincy Adams , the sixth President of the United States .
His achievements have received greater recognition in  आधुनिक  times ,  हालांकि   उसके  contributions  यहूद  not initially  as  celebrated as those of other Founders .
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside  in  the building that eventually became known as the White House .
A Watt steam engine .
The steam engine , fuelled primarily by  कोयले  , propelled the Industrial  क्रान्ति  in Great Britain and the world .
The Industrial Revolution  थी  the transition to new manufacturing processes that occurred in the period from about 1760 to some time between 1820 and 1840 .
This transition included going from hand production methods to machines ,  नई  chemical manufacturing  और  iron production processes , improved efficiency of water power ,  the  increasing use of steam power and  विकास   of  machine tools .
The transition  भी  included the change from wood  और  other bio-fuels to coal .
the  Industrial revolution began in Britain and within a few decades spread to Western Europe  और  the United  राज्य  .
The Industrial Revolution marks a major turning point in history ; almost every aspect of daily  जीवन  was influenced in some way .
Most notably , average income and population began to exhibit unprecedented sustained growth .
In the words of Nobel Prize winner Robert E. Lucas , Jr. , `` For the  पहला  time  in  history , the living standards of the masses of ordinary people have begun to undergo sustained  विकास  ... Nothing remotely like  इस  economic behavior is mentioned by the classical economists , even as  a   सैद्धांतिक  possibility .  ''
William Bell Scott Iron and Coal , 1855-60
The period  of  time covered by the Industrial Revolution varies with different  इतिहासकारों  .
eric  Hobsbawm  आयोजित  that it 'broke  आउट  '  in  Britain in the 1780s and was not fully felt  जबतक  the 1830s  or   1840s  , while T. S. Ashton held  कि  it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830 .
Some 20th-century historians such as John Clapham and Nicholas Crafts have argued that the process of economic and social change took place gradually and the term revolution is  a  misnomer  .
This  is  still a  विषय  of debate among historians .
GDP per capita was broadly stable before the Industrial Revolution and the emergence of the modern capitalist economy .
The Industrial Revolution began an era of per-capita economic growth in  पूंजीवादी  economies .
Economic historians are in agreement that the onset of the Industrial  क्रान्ति   is  the most important event in the history  of  humanity since the domestication of animals and plants .
The First Industrial Revolution evolved into  the  Second  औद्योगिक  Revolution in the transition years between 1840 and 1870 , when technological and economic progress gained momentum with the increasing adoption of steam-powered boats , ships  और  railways , the large  स्केल   manufacture   of  machine tools and  the  increasing use of steam powered factories .
Juliet AnnMarie Huddy ( born September  27  , 1969 ) , is an American  टेलीविज़न  news reporter , currently appearing on  फॉक्स   न्यूज  Channel .
This  सूची  ranks  u.S.  cities by land area ( not including bodies of  जल  ) .
कुल  areas  (  including water ) are also given , but  नोट  that ,  जब  ranked by total area , a number of coastal cities appear disproportionately `` larger '' .
San Francisco is  an  extreme example ; water makes up nearly 80 %  of  its total area of 232 square miles ( 601 km2 ) .
Note also that in many cases a city may be geographically large primarily because its municipal government has merged with the government of the surrounding county  .
In some cases the county no longer exists  ,  while in others the arrangement has formed a Consolidated city–county (  or  city-  बरो  in Alaska , or city- parish in Louisiana ) .
These are shown in bold in the list below ( but not all examples  may  be indicated )  .
** These are independent cities , meaning  वे  are not a part of any county  .
The large  आंत  ( or bowel , colon ) is the last  भाग  of the digestive system in vertebrate animals  .
Its function is to absorb  जल  from the remaining indigestible  खाना  matter , and  तब  to pass useless waste material from  the  body .
This  आलेख  is primarily about the human gut  ,  though the information  परिचय  its processes are directly applicable to most mammals .
The large intestine consists of the  cecum  , rectum and anal canal .
It starts in the right iliac region of the pelvis , just at or below the right waist , where it is joined to the bottom end of the small intestine .
From here  it   continues  up the abdomen , then across the width of the abdominal cavity  ,  and then it turns  bas  , continuing to its endpoint at the anus .
The large intestine is about long , which is about one-fifth of the whole length of the intestinal canal .
In Terminologia  anatomica  the  विशाल  intestine includes the cecum , colon , rectum ,  और  anal canal .
However , some sources exclude the anal  कनाल  .
The Green Bay Packers are an American football team based in Green Bay , Wisconsin .
They are members of the North Division of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in  the  NFL , having  महरूम  organized and playing in 1919  .
The Packers are the only non-profit , community-owned major league professional sports team in the United  राज्य  .
the  Packers are the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that were once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s .
Founded in 1919  by  Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun , the  ग्रीन  Bay Packers can trace their lineage  to  other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896  .
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed  as  a semi-professional football team against clubs from around Wisconsin and  the   मिडवेस्ट  .
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921 , the  forerunner  to what is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Although Green Bay is the last  एनएफएल  `` small town  ''  team , its local  प्रशंसक  base and media extends into nearby  मिल्वौकी  ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994 .
the  Green Bay Packers have won  13  league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL ) , including nine NFL championships prior to the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ) , 1968 ( Super Bowl II ) , 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI )  और  2011 ( Super Bowl  xlv  ) .
The Packers have  long-standing  , bitter rivalries  साथ  their NFC North ( formerly the NFC  सेंट्रल  ) opponents , the Chicago Bears , Minnesota Vikings  और  the Detroit Lions .
The Bears-Packers rivalry is  एक  of  the  oldest rivalries in NFL  इतिहास  , dating back to 1921 .
The San Fernando Valley ( locally  ज्ञात  as `` The  घाटी  ''  )  is an urbanized valley located in the Los Angeles  महानगर  area of southern California  ,  United States , defined by the  kyu  of  the  Transverse Ranges circling it .
Home to 1.76 million people , it lies north of the larger and more populous Los Angeles Basin .
Nearly two thirds of the Valley 's land  क्षेत्रफल  is part of the City of Los Angeles .
the  other  incorporated  cities in the  घाटी  are Glendale , Burbank , San Fernando , Hidden Hills and Calabasas  .
San  फर्नांडो  Valley , Los  एंजिल्स
The exterior of the current  संसार  of  coca-cola  at Pemberton Place .
The World of  coca-cola  , is a permanent exhibition  featuring  the history of The  coca-cola  Company .
Its well-known advertising as well as a  मेजबान   of  entertainment  क्षेत्रों  and attractions ,  और  is located in Atlanta , Georgia ( where the company 's headquarters are located ) at Pemberton Place  (  named  in   सम्मान  of John Pemberton ,  the  inventor of  coca-cola  ) .
as part of Georgia 's museums .
the complex located  आरपार  Baker Street from Centennial Olympic Park that is  घर  to the  जॉर्जिया  Aquarium and future  बीच   लिये  Civil & Human Rights .
It opened  to  the  पब्लिक  on May 24 , 2007 , relocating from and replacing the original exhibit .
Pretties  is  a 2005 science fiction novel and the second book of the Uglies Trilogy written by Scott Westerfeld  .
It is set in a  भविष्य  dystopian  संसार  in which everyone is turned `` Pretty '' by extreme cosmetic surgery  upon  reaching age 16 .
it  tells the story  of  teenager Tally Youngblood who rebels against society 's enforced conformity .
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith (  born  September 26 , 1971 ) is an American woman sentenced to life in prison  लिये  murdering her children  .
Born in Union , South Carolina , and a former student of the University of South Carolina Union , she  थी  convicted on July 22 , 1995 for  murdering  her two sons , 3-year-old Michael Daniel Smith  ,  born October 10 , 1991 , and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith , born August 5 , 1993 .
The case  gained  worldwide attention shortly after it developed , due  to  her claiming that a black man stole her  car   और  kidnapped her sons .
She later claimed that she suffered from mental health issues that impaired  उसके   निर्णय   .
According to the South Carolina Department of Corrections , Smith will be eligible  लिये   पैरोल  on November 4 , 2024 , after serving a minimum of  तीस   सालो  .
She is  incarcerated  at South Carolina 's Leath Correctional Institution , near Greenwood .
Mount McKinley ( also known as Denali taken from the Inuit Koyukon Athabaskan language meaning ``  the  Great One  ''  ) is the highest mountain  शिखर  in the United States and  in  North America with a summit  उन्नयन  of above sea level .
At some ,  the  base to peak rise is considered  the  largest of any  पहाड़  situated  entirely  above sea level .
Measured by topographic prominence ,  it  is the third most prominent peak after Mount Everest and Aconcagua  .
Located in the Alaska Range in the interior of US state of Alaska , it is the centerpiece of Denali National Park  और  Preserve .
The first European to document sighting the mountain was George Vancouver  in  1794 .
In 1903 , James Wickersham recorded the first attempt at climbing McKinley which was unsuccessful .
In 1906 ,  फ्रेडरिक  Cook claimed the first ascent which  थी  later proven to be false .
The first verifiable ascent to McKinley 's summit was  हासिल  on June 7 , 1913 by climbers Hudson Stuck , Harry Karstens , Walter  हार्पर  , and Robert Tatum .
In 1951 , Bradford Washburn pioneered the West  buttress  route considered to be  the  safest  और  easiest route and therefore the most popular currently in use .
The Honda S600 is an automobile manufactured by Honda .
it  was launched in March 1964 .
उपलब्धियाँ  as a roadster  –   bearing  strong resemblance to the Honda S500 – and as a fastback  coupé  – introduced  in  March 1965 – the S600 was the first Honda available in two trim levels .
During its production run up to 1966 , the model styling would remain pretty much the same , with the most notable changes coming  to   the  front grille , bumper , and headlights  .
Powered by a DOHC , water-cooled , four-cylinder inline engine with four  carburetors  , the engine capacity was increased to 606 cc from the  s500  's 531 cc  .
The engine produced  at  8,500 rpm and had a top speed of  .
With the convertible weighing in at mere , the extra sheet metal of the coupe only added to  the  overall weight .
Suspension was independent with sealed roller chain drive to each rear wheel .
The S600 was the first mass  marketed  Honda car .
पहला  offered only in right-hand drive , it soon became available in left-hand drive to appeal  to  export markets .
There were a few pre-production S500s manufactured  in  left hand drive , two or  तीन  even being shown in some early  बिक्री  brochures .
Both the S600 roadster and coupé were available in standard trim and a special , upgraded package called the SM600 which included , among other items , special paint colors , exclusive badging , a standard radio and speaker , a  खास   एंटीना  in the passenger side sun visor , standard reversing lights , a standard cigarette lighter ,  a  standard heater , better cushioned seats , and a detachable seat track for quick removal of the  यात्री   सीट  .
Honda built 3,912 roadsters in 1964 , with production climbing to  7,261  convertibles and  1,519  coupes in  1965  .
Production dropped off  in  1966 ( as they were shifting to the  s800  ) with only 111  roadsters  and 281 coupes , giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles and 1,800  coupes  for the 3 year span .
everybody   hates   क्रिस  is an American television period sitcom  कि  depicts the teenage experiences of comedian Chris Rock ( who is also the narrator )  जबकि  growing up in the  bedford-stuyvesant  neighborhood of Brooklyn  ,  New York  .
the   दिखाएँ  is set between 1983  और  1987 ;  however   ,  Rock himself  थी  a teenager between 1978  और  1983 .
Rock grew up with a boy named Kenny Montero , whom he has often referred to as the inspiration for a lot of the episodes .
In many  साक्षात्कार  , Rock has described Kenny as the reason he  मिला  into comedy in  the  first place .
The  दिखाएँ  's title parodies the CBS sitcom Everybody Loves  रेमंड  .
Rock stated : ``  everybody  Loves Raymond but Everybody Hates Chris ! `` .
The show 's  सीसे  actors  हैं  Tyler James  विलियम्स  , Terry  क्रू  , Tichina Arnold , Tequan Richmond , Imani  हकीम  , and  विंसेंट  Martella .
In Fall 2008 , the  the  CW moved Everybody Hates Chris and  the  Game to  the  Friday night death slot  .
the  fourth season of the  श्रेणी  premiered Friday , October 3 , 2008 , at 8:00PM Eastern/7:00PM Central .
On May 21 ,  2009  , The CW announced that it had cancelled Everybody Hates Chris .
Prior to this ,  कार्यपालिका  producer Chris Rock announced that the end of season  4  matched up with his own past—dropping out of high  स्कूल  to become a  comedian—and  that it was time to  समाप्त  the show .
Pleural effusion is excess fluid that accumulates between the two pleural layers ,  the  fluid-filled space that surrounds the lungs .
Excessive amounts of such fluid can impair breathing by limiting the expansion of the lungs during ventilation .
बियोवुल्फ़  ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional title of an Old English heroic epic poem consisting of 3182 alliterative long lines , set  in  Scandinavia  ,   commonly  cited as one of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature .
It survives in a single manuscript known as the Nowell Codex .
Its  संयोजन  by an anonymous Anglo-Saxon poet is dated between the 8th and the early 11th century .
in  1731 , the manuscript was badly damaged by a fire that  swept  through a building housing a collection of Medieval manuscripts assembled by Sir Robert Bruce Cotton .
the  poem fell into obscurity for decades , and  इसके  existence did not become widely known again until it was printed in 1815 in an edition  prepared  by the Icelandic-Danish scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin .
In the poem , Beowulf , a hero of the Geats in Scandinavia , comes to  the  help of Hroðgar , the king of the Danes , whose  मीड   हॉल   (  in Heorot ) has been under attack by a  दानव   ज्ञात  as Grendel .
After Beowulf slays him , Grendel 's mother attacks the hall and is then also  पराजित  .
Victorious , Beowulf goes home to Geatland in Sweden and later becomes king of the Geats .
After a period of fifty years has passed , Beowulf defeats a  ड्रैगन  ,  लकिन  is fatally wounded in the battle .
After his death , his attendants bury him in  a  tumulus , a burial mound ,  in  Geatland .
Shem Ham and Japheth by James Tissot  1904  .
Shem ( ; Sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez :  ሴም  , Sēm ; `` renown ; prosperity ; name '' ) was  एक  of the sons  of  Noah in the Hebrew Bible as  खूब  as in  इस्लामी  literature .
He is most popularly regarded as  the  eldest son , though some traditions regard him  as  the second son .
Genesis 10:21 refers  to  relative ages of Shem and his brother Japheth , but  साथ  sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different translations  .
The verse is translated in the KJV as ``  unto  Shem  भी   ,  the father of all the children of Eber , the brother  of  Japheth the elder , even to him were children born . `` .
However , the New American Standard Bible gives , `` Also to Shem , the father of all the  children  of Eber , and the older brother of Japheth , children were  born  . ''
Genesis 11:10 records that Shem was still 100 years old at the birth  of  Arphaxad , (  लकिन  nearly 101 - see  कालक्रम   नोट  , ) two years after the flood , making him barely 99 at the time the flood began ; and  कि  he  जिया  for another 500 years after this , making  उसके  age at death 600 years .
The children of Shem were Elam , Asshur , Arphaxad , Lud , and Aram , in addition to daughters .
अब्राहम  , the patriarch of the Hebrews and Arabs , was one of  the   वंशजों   of  Arphaxad .
Islamic literature describes Shem as one of the believing sons of  नूह  .
Some sources even identify Shem  as  a prophet in his own right and that he was the next prophet after his father  .
In one Muslim legend , Shem  थी  one of the people that God made Jesus resurrect as a sign to the Children of Israel .
The 1st century  इतिहासकार  Flavius Josephus , among many  अन्य  , recounted the  परंपरा  that these five sons were the progenitors of the nations of Elam , Assyria , Chaldea , Lydia , and Syria , respectively  .
सामीती  is still  a  commonly used term  लिये  the Semitic languages , as a subset of the Afro-Asiatic languages , denoting the common linguistic heritage of Arabic , Aramaic , Akkadian ,  ethiopic  , Hebrew and Phoenician  भाषाएं  .
According to some  यहूदी   परंपराओं  ( e.g. , B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis Rabbah 56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; Numbers Rabbah 4:8 . ) , Shem is believed to have been Melchizedek ,  किंग  of Salem whom Abraham is recorded to have met after the battle of the four kings .
In a few of the many extra-biblical  स्त्रोत  that describe him , Shem is also credited with killing Nimrod , son  of  Cush .
Shem is mentioned in Genesis 5:32 ,  6:10   ;  7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ;  10  ; 11:10 ; also in 1  क्रॉनिकल्स  1:4 .
Geographic identifications of  flavius   josephus   ,  c. 100 AD ;  japheth  's sons shown in  रेड  , Ham  's  sons  in  blue , Shem 's  बेटे  in  ग्रीन  .
Go Daddy or Go Daddy Group Inc.  is  a privately held company that is primarily an internet domain registrar and web  होस्टिंग  company  .
Go Daddy Group Inc. filed  लिये  an IPO in 2006 , but later canceled it , due to ``  मार्केट  uncertainties  ''  .
In  जोड  to domain registration and hosting Go Daddy also sells e-business related software and  सेवाएं  .
On June 24 , 2011 ,  the  Wall Street Journal reported  कि  private-equity firms KKR and  चांदी  Lake Partners , along with a third investor , were nearing a deal to buy the company for  between  $ 2–2.5 billion .
On July  1  , 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that KKR , Silver  झील  Partners and Technology Crossover Ventures had closed the deal .
Although the purchase  दाम  was not officially announced it was reported to be $  2.25  billion , for 65  %  of the  कम्पनी  .
, Bob Parsons had ceded the CEO role of Go Daddy to Warren Adelman  ,  who had been with the  कम्पनी  for about 10 years .
The Andorran coat of arms at the Andorran parliament .
Andorra ( ; , ) , officially the Principality of Andorra ( ) ,  भी  called the  principality  of the Valleys of Andorra , (  )  , is a landlocked microstate in Southwestern Europe , located in the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France .
it  is the sixth smallest nation in Europe , having an area of and  an  estimated population of 85,000 in 2012 .
Its capital ,  अंडोरा  la Vella  ,  is the  उच्चतम  capital city in Europe , at  an  elevation of above sea level .
The official language is Catalan , although Spanish , Portuguese , and  फ्रेंच  are also commonly spoken .
Created under a charter  in  988 , the present Principality was formed in  1278  .
It is known as a principality as it is a monarchy headed by two co-princes – the Bishop of  urgell  and the President of France .
Andorra is a prosperous country mainly because of its tourism industry , which services an  अनुमानित  10.2 million visitors annually , and also  क्युकी  of its status as a tax haven .
It is not a member of the  यूरोपीय  Union , but the euro is the de facto currency .
The people of Andorra have the 4th highest human life expectancy in  the   संसार  — 82 years at birth .
the  George Washington University  (  GW , GWU , or George Washington ) is a comprehensive private , coeducational research university located in Washington , D.C. .
It awards certificates , Bachelor degrees , Masters degrees , and PhDs across several dozen disciplines .
The university was  चार्टर्ड  by an Act of Congress on February 9 , 1821  as  The Columbian  कॉलेज  in the District  of  Columbia  .
Kimberly Noel `` Kim  ''  Kardashian ( born October 21 , 1980 ) is an American socialite , television personality and occasional actress .
In  2007  , she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex tape that subsequently  resulted  in  a  court  awarding  her $ 5 million ; later in that same year , she and her family rose to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians , and its subsequent spin-offs , including Kourtney and Kim Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami .
In 2010 , Kardashian was the highest-earning reality star , with estimated earnings of $ 6 million .
With sisters Kourtney and Khloé , Kardashian co-owns the fashion boutique chain D-A-S-H  .
She has been involved in the production of several lines of clothing and fragrances .
In August 2011 , Kardashian married basketball player Kris Humphries in  a  widely publicized ceremony .
That October , Kardashian filed for divorce following 72 days  of  marriage  .
The move garnered significant backlash from the  मीडिया  , who labeled it a `` publicity stunt '' .
After 536 days , Kardashian and Humphries reached  an  undisclosed settlement at the Los Angeles Superior Court , finalizing the divorce in April 2013 .
Aerial view of Oahu with freeways and highways , 3D computer-generated image
Fly-around tour of the island
Oahu ( ) or  oahu  ,  ज्ञात  as `` The Gathering Place '' , is the third largest of the Hawaiian Islands and the most populous  of  the  आइलैंड्स   in   the  U.S. state of Hawaii .
The state capital , Honolulu , is on Oahu 's southeast coast .
Including small close-in offshore islands such as Ford Island and the islands in Kaneohe  खाड़ी  and off the eastern ( windward ) coast , it has a total land area of , making it the 20th largest island in the United States .
In the greatest dimension , this volcanic island is long and across .
The length of the shoreline is .
The island is the  परिणाम  of two separate shield volcanoes : Waianae and Koolau , with a broad `` valley '' or saddle ( the central Oahu Plain ) between them .
The highest point is Mt . Ka'ala in the Waianae Range  ,  rising to above sea level .
The  आधार  currency of the United States is  the  U.S. dollar , and is printed on bills in denominations of $ 1 , $ 2  ,  $ 5 , $ 10 , $ 20 , $ 50 , and $  100  .
At one time , however , U.S. currency included five larger denominations .
टीप  in the denominations  of  $ 500 , $ 1,000 , $ 5,000 ,  और  $ 10,000 were printed for general use , and a  $  100,000 note was printed for certain  आतंरिक  transactions .
British  होंडुरास  was  a  British colony  in   सेंट्रल   अमेरिका  .
In 1981 , the colony  gained  full independence , and is now the independent nation of Belize .
पहला  colonised by Spaniards in the 17th century  ,  the territory on the east coast of Central America  ,  south of Mexico , became a British crown colony in  1862  .
In 1964 , it became a self-governing colony .
Belize  became   fully  independent from the  संयुक्त  Kingdom in 1981 .
Belize was the last  महाद्वीपीय  possession of the United Kingdom in the  americas  .
Spelt , also known as dinkel wheat , or hulled wheat , is an ancient species of wheat from the fifth millennium BC .
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe from  the  Bronze Age to medieval times ; it now survives as a relict crop in Central Europe and northern Spain and has found a new  मार्केट   as  a health food .
Spelt is sometimes considered a subspecies of the closely related species common wheat ( T. aestivum ) , in which case its botanical name is considered to  be  Triticum aestivum subsp . spelta .
It is a hexaploid  गेहूं  , which means  it  has six sets of  गुणसूत्रों  .
Sherlock Holmes (  or  ) is a fictional detective created by author and physician Sir Arthur Conan Doyle .
A London-based `` consulting detective '' whose abilities  किनारा  on the fantastic ,  holmes  is famous for his astute logical reasoning , his  क्षमता  to adopt almost any  भेस  , and his use of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases .
holmes  , who first appeared in publication in 1887 , was  प्रदर्शित  in four novels and 56 short stories  .
The first novel , A Study  in  Scarlet , appeared in Beeton 's Christmas Annual in 1887 and the  दूसरी  , The Sign of the Four , in  lippincott  's  मासिक  Magazine in 1890 .
The character grew tremendously in popularity with  the  first series of short stories in  the  Strand Magazine  ,  beginning with A Scandal in Bohemia in 1891 ; further series of short stories and  दो   novels  published in serial  रूप   appeared  between then and 1927 .
The stories cover a period from around 1880 up to  1914  .
All but four stories are  narrated  by Holmes 's friend and biographer , Dr.  जॉन  H. Watson ; two are narrated by Holmes himself ( `` The Blanched Soldier `` and `` The Lion 's Mane `` ) and two  अन्य  are  लिखा  in the  तीसरा  person ( `` The Mazarin Stone `` and  ``  His  पिछला  Bow `` ) .
in  two stories ( `` The Musgrave Ritual ``  और  `` The Gloria Scott `` ) , Holmes tells Watson the main story from his memories , while Watson becomes the narrator of the frame story .
The first and fourth novels , A Study in Scarlet and The Valley of Fear , each include a long interval of omniscient narration  recounting  events unknown to either Holmes or Watson .
The United States House of Representatives is one of the two houses of  the  United States Congress ( a  bicameral  legislature ) .
It is  अक्सर  referred to  as  the  हाउस  .
The other house is the Senate .
the  composition and powers of the House are established in Article One of the United States Constitution .
The major  शक्ति  of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire  देश   हालांकि  its bills  जरूर  also be passed by the  सीनेट  and further agreed  to  by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority  in  each chamber ) .
the  House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills , to impeach officials , and to  elect  the U.S. President in case there is no majority in the Electoral College .
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its population but is entitled to at least one representative .
The most populous state ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , currently  रै  53  प्रतिनिधि  .
The total number of voting representatives is  फिक्स्ड  by law at 435 .
प्रत्येक   प्रतिनिधि  serves for a two-year term .
The Speaker of the United States House of  प्रतिनिधि  , who presides  over  the chamber , is elected by the members of the  हाउस  , and is therefore traditionally the leader of the  हाउस  Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference , whichever party has more voting members .
The House meets in the south wing of the  संयुक्त  States Capitol  .
jell-o  is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based Kraft  भोजन  for a number  of  gelatin  desserts  , including fruit gels , puddings and no-bake cream pies .
The brand 's popularity has led to it being used as a generic term  लिये  gelatin dessert across the U.S. and Canada .
Kennywood is an amusement park located in West Mifflin , Pennsylvania , a suburb of Pittsburgh .
The park first opened in 1898 as a `` trolley park '' attraction  at  the end of  the   mellon  family 's Monongahela Street Railway .
The park was purchased in 1906 by F. W. Henninger and Andrew McSwigan and thus began the Kennywood Entertainment company  कि  has remained a closely held family business for over 100 years .
इस  traditional amusement park still has structures and rides dating back  to  its opening and the early 1900s .
Along with Rye Playland Park , it is one of only two amusement parks listed in the National Register of Historic Places .
Kennywood is owned by Kennywood Entertainment Company , which until December 2007 was a closely held family business owned by the Henninger and McSwigan families .
Kennywood Entertainment is now operated by California-based Palace Entertainment , a subsidiary of Parques  reunidos  , an international amusement park company based  in  Madrid , Spain .
Parque Reunidos is in turn a subsidiary of Candover Investments , an investment fund based in  the  UK .
A Social Security card issued by the Railroad Retirement Board in 1943 to a now deceased person .
In the United States , a Social Security number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit number issued to U.S. citizens , permanent residents  ,   और  temporary ( working ) residents under section 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the Social  सुरक्षा  Act , codified as  .
The number is issued to an individual by the Social  सुरक्षा  Administration , an independent agency of the United States government  .
Its primary purpose is to track individuals for Social Security  उद्देश्य  .
A Social Security number may be obtained by applying  on  Form SS-5 , `` Application for A Social Security Number Card  ''  .
Minimalism  describes  movements in various forms of art  और  design , especially  विज़ुअल  art and music  ,  where the work is set out to expose the essence  or  identity  of  a subject through eliminating all non-essential  फ़ॉर्म  , features or concepts .
Minimalism is any design or  स्टाइल  in which the simplest and fewest elements are used to create  the  maximum effect .
As a specific  गति  in the arts it is identified with developments in post–World War II Western Art ,  सबसे  strongly with American visual arts in the  1960s  and early 1970s .
Prominent artists  संबद्ध  with this movement include Donald Judd , John McCracken ,  agnes  Martin , Dan Flavin , Robert Morris , Anne Truitt ,  और  Frank Stella .
It is rooted in the reductive aspects of Modernism , and is  प्रायः  interpreted as  a  reaction against Abstract expressionism and a bridge to Postminimal art practices .
The terms have expanded to encompass a movement in music which features repetition and  iteration  ,  as  in the compositions of  la  Monte Young , Terry Riley ,  स्टीव   reich  , Philip Glass ,  और  John Adams .
Minimalist compositions are sometimes known as systems music .
The term `` minimalist '' is often applied colloquially to designate anything that is spare or stripped to  इसके  essentials .
It has also been used to describe the plays and novels of Samuel Beckett , the films of Robert Bresson , the  कहानियां  of Raymond  carver   ,  and even  the  automobile designs of Colin Chapman .
The word was first used in English in the early 20th century  to  describe the Mensheviks .
In chemistry and physics , Dalton 's law ( also called Dalton 's law of  आंशिक  pressures ) states that the total pressure exerted by  the  mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to  the  sum of  the  partial pressures of individual gases .
This empirical law was observed by  जॉन  Dalton in  1801  and is related to the ideal gas laws .
Mathematically , the pressure of a mixture of gases can be defined  as  the  संकलन
or
where represent the partial pressure of each component .
it  is assumed  कि  the gases do not react with each other
where  is  the mole fraction of the i-th  घटक   in  the total mixture of n components .
The relationship below provides a way to determine the volume based concentration of any individual gaseous component
where is the concentration of the i-th component  expressed  in ppm .
Dalton 's law  is  not exactly followed by real gases .
Those deviations are considerably large at high pressures .
In such conditions , the volume occupied by the molecules can become significant compared to the  फ़्री  space between them .
In particular , the  छोटी  average distances between molecules  उठाता  the intensity of intermolecular forces between gas molecules enough to  substantially  change the  दबाव  exerted  by  them .
Neither of those effects  हैं   माना  by the ideal gas model .
This is a list of the largest United States colleges and universities by enrollment for colleges and universities in the United States .
What this list includes:
Colleges and universities within the United States
University systems if the system is run under a single administration
Enrollment is the sum of the headcount of undergraduate and graduate students
Enrollment is counted by the Integrated Post-secondary Education System within the U.S. Department of Education .
Enrollment is the 12-month unduplicated headcount , indicating the number of unique students who attended the  विश्वविद्यालयों  during the year .
What this list does not include:
कोई  indication of how many of the enrolled students are full  or  part  समय  ( e.g. , some universities may have a high enrollment , but have most students enrolled in only  a  single class )
For  अन्य  lists that measure university enrollment  ,  see the See Also section below .
`` Right Round  ''  is a song performed by American rapper Flo Rida , released  as  the lead single from his second studio album , R.O.O.T.S . ( 2009 ) .
The song features guest vocals from Kesha  .
It was released to radio on 27 January 2009 and was digitally released on 10 February by Poe Boy Entertainment and Atlantic  रिकॉर्ड  .
The song lyrically speaks of Flo Rida 's net ball referee enthusiasm  ,  while adapting the chorus of the 1984 Dead or Alive song `` You Spin Me Round ( Like  a  Record ) `` in its  आँकड़ा  .
According to one of the song 's  लेखक  , the chorus refers to oral sex .
kesha  contributed guest  vocals  to the song ,  लकिन  in the United States , during the run atop the chart , Kesha  थी  uncredited .
The song received mostly negative reviews from  आलोचकों  , who claimed it was kitsch and misogynistic .
However , it was a commercial success ,  reaching  the top ten  of  the charts in nineteen countries worldwide .
In the United States , it became Flo Rida 's  दूसरी  number-one single and broke the record for first-week sales when it was released to digital retailers .
The single 's accompanying music video was directed by Malcolm Jones  और  nominated for an MTV Video Music Award .
The  सोंग  has been used  in  several  फिल्मों  ,  ऐसे  as The Hangover  ,  The Ugly Truth and  the  Telugu  फिल्म  Pilla Zamindar .
In  the  movie Pitch Perfect , the song is performed by the a cappella group the Treblemakers  .
The  मुख्य  Justice of the United States is the head of the United States federal  अदालत  system ( the judicial branch of the federal government  of  the United  राज्य  )  और  the chief judge of  the  Supreme Court of the United States .
The Chief Justice is one of nine Supreme Court justices ; the other eight are  the  Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of  the  United States .
From 1789 until  1866  , the office was known as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court .
The Chief Justice is the highest judicial officer in the  देश  , and acts as  a  chief  प्रशासनिक  officer for the federal courts  और  as head of the Judicial Conference of the United States appoints the director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts .
The Chief Justice also serves as  a  spokesperson for  the  judicial branch .
The  मुख्य  Justice leads the business of the Supreme Court .
He presides over oral arguments before the court .
When  the  court renders an opinion , the Chief Justice—when in the majority—decides who writes the  अदालत  's opinion .
The  मुख्य  Justice also has significant agenda-setting power over the court 's meetings .
In the case of an impeachment  of  a President of the United States , which has occurred twice , the Chief Justice presides over the  विचारण  in the Senate .
In modern tradition , the Chief Justice has the ceremonial duty of administering the oath of office of the President of the United States .
the   पहला   मुख्य  Justice was John Jay .
The 17th and current  मुख्य  Justice is John G. Roberts ,  jr  .
Caribou  निकट  Prudhoe Bay , 1973
prudhoe  Bay Oil Field is a large oil field on  अलास्का  's North Slope .
It is the largest oil field in both the United States and in North America , covering and originally containing approximately  of  oil .
The amount of recoverable oil in the field is more than double that of the next largest field in the United States ,  the  East Texas oil field .
The field is operated  by  BP ; partners are ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips Alaska  .
Labor unions are legally recognized as representatives of workers in many industries in the  संयुक्त  States .
Their activity today centers on collective bargaining over wages , benefits , and working conditions for their membership , and on representing their members in disputes with management over violations  of  contract provisions .
Larger unions also typically engage in lobbying activities and electioneering at the state and  संघीय  level .
Most unions in America are aligned with one  of  two larger umbrella organizations : the AFL-CIO created in 1955 , and the Change to Win Federation which split from the AFL-CIO in 2005 .
Both advocate policies and legislation on behalf of workers in the United States and Canada , and take an  क्रियाशील  role  in  politics .
the  AFL-CIO is especially concerned with global trade issues .
In 2010 , the percentage of  मजदूर  belonging to a union in  the  United States ( or total labor union `` density '' ) was 11.4 % , compared to 18.4 % in Germany , 27.5 % in Canada , and 70 % in Finland .
संघ  membership in the private sector has fallen under 7 % — levels not  देखी  since 1932 .
Unions allege that employer-incited  विपक्ष  has contributed to this decline in membership  .
The most  prominent  unions are among public  सेक्टर  employees such as teachers and police .
Members of  संघ  are disproportionately older , male and residents of the Northeast  ,  the  मिडवेस्ट  , and  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Union workers average 10-30 % higher  अदा  than non-union in America after controlling for individual ,  जॉब  , and labor market characteristics .
Although much smaller compared to their peak membership in the 1950s , American  संघ  remain a prominent political factor , both through mobilization of their own memberships and through coalitions with like-minded activist organizations around issues such as immigrant rights , trade  नीति  ,  स्वास्थ्य  care , and living wage campaigns .
To fight alleged employer  anti-union  programs  ,  unions are currently advocating new `` card check `` federal legislation that would require employers to bargain with a union if more than 50 % of workers signed forms , or `` cards , '' stating they wish to be represented by that union  .
The current procedure  involves  waiting 45 to 90 days for a federally supervised secret-ballot employee  referendum  on the subject .
The economist Joseph Stiglitz  रै   asserted  that ,  ``  Strong unions  have  helped to reduce  असमानता   ,   whereas  weaker unions have made it easier for  ceos  , sometimes working with market forces that they have helped shape  ,  to increase it . ''
The decline in  unionization  since WWII in the United States has  महरूम  associated with a pronounced rise in income and wealth inequality .
A Christian Lacroix fashion boutique
A boutique is a small shopping  आउटलेट  , especially one that specializes in elite and fashionable items such  as  clothing and jewelry .
The word is  फ्रेंच  for  ``  shop '' , via Latin from Greek ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ) ,  ``  storehouse '' .
The term entered into everyday English use in the late 1960s when , for a brief period , London was the centre of the fashion trade .
carnaby  Street  और  the Kings Road  यहूद  the  फ़ोकस  of much media attention as home to the most fashionable  boutiques  of the era .
Now the East of London  रै  been regenerated  और  more  boutiques  pop up in fashionable areas , such as Tower Bridge Road .
it  can also refer to a specialised firm such as a boutique investment bank or boutique law firm .
The word  is  often  प्रयुक्त  to  describe  a  प्रॉपर्टी  in the independent section of the hotel market ( such as The Rockwell in London ) in order to distinguish  themselves  from larger chains ( such  as  Hilton Hotels ) .
In such cases the establishments aim to convey the idea that the operation is elite and highly specialised .
In the strictest sense of the word , boutiques would be one-of-a-kind but  अधिक  generally speaking ,  कुछ  chains can be referred  to   as  boutiques if they specialize in particular styles .
Recently , the term `` boutique '' has started being applied to normally-mass-market items that are either niche or produced in intentionally small  संख्याएँ  at very high prices .
This may be referred to as boutique manufacturing  .
For example ,  पहले  the release of the  वी  , a Time Magazine article suggested that Nintendo could become a `` boutique video-game company '' , producing games for niche audiences , rather than trying to compete directly  साथ   microsoft  and  सोनी  .
In  the   परंपरागत  luxury-  देखें  industry Scalfaro  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  is considered as the precursor in manufacturing and sale of bespoke watches .
The Swiss company uses a highly flexible boutique manufacturing site , which allows producing small  श्रेणी  or even unique timepieces .
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made items and other truly one-of-a-kind  वस्तुएं  ,  अन्य  simply produce t-shirts , stickers , and other fashion accessories in artificially  छोटी  runs and sell them at unusually high prices  .
In the early  1990s  Selena started manufacturing  उसके  own line of women 's clothing .
Opening  दो  boutiques labeled  as  `` Selena Etc . Boutique & Salon '' One located in Corpus Christi and one located in San Antonio , Texas .
One was due to open in Monterrey , Mexico , in  1995  but due to her death it was not opened .
Around 1999 the  सैन  Antonio location closed and the Corpus Christi  स्थान  was closed in 2009 .
In late 1990s  कुछ  European retail traders  विकसित   the  idea  of  tailoring a shop towards a  जीवनशैली  theme , in the form of `` concept  स्टोर्स  '' , which specialised in cross-selling without using separate departments .
One of the first concept stores was 10 Corso Como in  मिलान  , Italy followed  by  Colette in Paris  और  Quartier 206 in Berlin .
Several well-known American  जंजीरों  such as Urban Outfitters , D-A-S-H , and The  गैप  ,  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  chain Billabong and , though  कम  common , Lord & Taylor adapted to the concept store trend after 2000 .
Navy Federal Credit Union ( or  नेवी  Federal  )  is a credit  संघ  headquartered  in  Vienna  ,  Virginia , chartered and regulated under  the  authority of the National Credit Union  प्रशासन  ( NCUA ) of the U.S.  संघीय  government .
Navy Federal  is  the largest natural member ( or retail ) credit union in the world , both in asset size and  in  membership .
As of September 2012 , Navy Federal had over  $  50 billion USD  in  assets , and over 4 million members .
Stevland Hardaway Morris ( born May 13 , 1950 as Stevland Hardaway Judkins ) , known  by   उसके   स्टेज  name Stevie Wonder , is an American singer ,  songwriter   ,  and multi-instrumentalist  ,  a child prodigy who developed into  एक  of the most creative musical figures of the late 20th century .
Blind since shortly after birth , Wonder signed with Motown 's Tamla label at the age of eleven , and continues to perform and record for  motown  to this day  .
Among Wonder 's best known  works   हैं  singles such as `` Superstition `` , ``  सर  Duke `` , `` You  हैं  the Sunshine of  my  Life `` and `` I Just Called to Say I Love You  ``  .
Well known albums also include Talking Book , Innervisions and Songs in the Key of Life .
He has recorded more than thirty U.S. top ten hits and received twenty-two Grammy Awards , the most ever awarded to a male solo artist .
अचरज  is also noted for his  कार्य  as an activist for political causes , including his 1980 campaign to make  मार्टिन  Luther  किंग  , Jr. 's  जन्मदिवस   a  holiday in the United States .
In 2009 , Wonder was named a  संयुक्त  Nations Messenger of Peace .
In 2008  ,  Billboard magazine released a list  of  the Hot 100 All-Time Top Artists  to  celebrate the US singles chart 's fiftieth anniversary , with Wonder  at  number five .
By  लोकप्रिय  vote , Stevie was inducted into The SoulMusic Hall of Fame at SoulMusic.com in December 2012 .
Psychosis ( from  the   यूनानी   ψυχή  `` psyche '' , for mind/soul ,  और  -ωσις `` -osis '' , for abnormal condition or derangement ) refers to  an  abnormal  कंडीशन  of the mind , and is a generic psychiatric term for a mental state often described as involving  a  `` loss of contact with reality `` .
People suffering from psychosis are described  as  psychotic .
Psychosis is given to the more severe forms of  मनोरोग   विकार  , during which hallucinations and delusions , gross excitement or stupor and impaired insight may occur .
The term `` psychosis '' is very broad and can  औसत  anything from relatively normal aberrant experiences through to the complex and catatonic  expressions  of schizophrenia and bipolar type 1 disorder  .
Moreover a wide variety of central nervous system diseases , from both external substances and internal physiologic illness , can produce symptoms of  मनस्ताप  .
This led many professionals to say that psychosis is not  विशिष्ट  enough as  a   निदान  term .
Despite this , `` psychosis ''  is  generally given to noticeable deficits in normal behavior ( negative signs ) and more commonly to diverse types of  मति  or delusional beliefs ( e.g . grandiosity , delusions of persecution ) .
Someone exhibiting  बहुत  obvious  लक्षण  may  be  described as `` frankly psychotic '' , whereas one exhibiting very subtle signs could be classified in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic risk  सिंड्रोम  '' .
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the positive symptoms of psychosis , especially those of schizophrenia .
This is thought to occur through a mechanism of aberrant salience of environmental  stimuli  .
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled trials of these drugs , however , show either no significant difference between drug and placebo  ,  or a very small effect size , suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis  is  much  अधिक  complex than an overactive  dopamine  system .
People experiencing  मनस्ताप  may exhibit some personality changes and thought disorder .
Depending on its severity , this may be accompanied by unusual or bizarre behavior , as well as difficulty with social interaction and impairment in carrying out daily life activities .
General  grievous  is a fictional character in the Star Wars universe .
a  recurring antagonist ,  he  is the Supreme Commander  of  the Confederacy of Independent Systems , a political faction of planetary systems waging war on the Galactic Republic .
Trained in all seven forms of lightsaber combat  by   गिनती  Dooku , he is a ruthless and powerful warrior devoted to Jedi 's destruction during the Clone Wars .
His acts of wanton aggression and high Jedi body count would prompt the galaxy to give him the nickname the Knightslayer .
Though  the   बदनाम  Jedi slayer was the  होने   in  the galaxy during the Clone Wars who  था   मारे  the most Jedi  in  single  कॉम्बैट   ,  he did  नहीं  hesitate to flee from battles he knew he would lose  .
Statistics play an important role in summarizing baseball performance and evaluating  खिलाड़ी  in the sport .
Since the  प्रवाह  of a baseball game has  प्राकृतिक  breaks to it , and normally  खिलाड़ी  act individually rather than performing  in  clusters  ,  the sport lends itself to easy record-keeping and statistics .
Statistics  have  been kept for professional baseball since the  सृष्टि  of  the  National League and American League ,  अभी  part of Major League Baseball .
Many statistics are also available from outside of Major League Baseball  ,  from leagues such as the National Association of Professional Base Ball  खिलाड़ी  and the Negro Leagues .
Dorothea Lange 's Migrant Mother depicts destitute pea pickers in California , centering on Florence Owens Thompson ,  आयु  32 , a  माँ  of seven children , in Nipomo , California , March 1936 .
USA annual real GDP from 1910–60 , with the years of the Great Depression (  1929–1939  ) highlighted .
The unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960  ,  with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The Great Depression was a  कठोर  worldwide economic depression in the decade preceding World War  ii  .
The  समय  of the Great Depression varied across nations , but in most countries it started  in  1930 and lasted until  the  late 1930s or middle 1940s .
it  was the longest , most widespread , and deepest depression of the 20th century .
In the  21st  century , the Great Depression is commonly used as an example of how far the world 's  अर्थव्यवस्था  can decline .
The depression originated in the  u.S.  , after the fall in stock prices that began around September 4 , 1929 , and became  विश्वव्यापी  news with the stock market crash of  अक्तूबर  29  ,   1929  ( known as Black  मंगलवार  ) .
The  ग्रेट  Depression had devastating effects in countries rich and poor .
Personal income , tax revenue , profits and prices dropped , while international trade plunged by more than 50 % .
Unemployment in the U.S. rose to 25 % , and in some countries rose as high as 33 % .
Cities all around the world were  hit  hard , especially  those  dependent on heavy industry .
Construction was virtually halted in many countries .
Farming and rural areas suffered as crop prices fell by approximately 60 % .
Facing  plummeting  demand with few alternate sources of jobs , areas dependent on primary  सेक्टर  industries such as cash cropping ,  खनन  and logging suffered the most  .
Some economies started to recover by the mid-1930s .
In many countries , the negative effects  of  the Great Depression lasted until the end  of  World War  ii  .
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ) ,  भी  known as a premature  ventricular  complex , ventricular premature contraction ( or complex or complexes ) ( VPC ) , ventricular premature beat (  vpb  ) , or ventricular extrasystole ( VES ) , is a  अपेक्षाकृत  common event where the heartbeat  is  initiated by Purkinje fibres in the ventricles  बल्कि  than by  the  sinoatrial node  ,  the normal heartbeat initiator .
The electrical events of the heart detected by the electrocardiogram allow a PVC to  be  easily distinguished from a normal heart beat .
A PVC may be perceived as a `` skipped beat `` or felt as palpitations in the chest .
In a normal heartbeat ,  the  ventricles contract after the atria have helped to fill  उन्हें  by contracting ; in  इस  way the ventricles can pump a maximized amount of blood both  to  the lungs and  to   the  rest  of  the body .
In a PVC , the  ventricles  contract  पहला  and  पहले  the  atria  have optimally  भर  the ventricles with  रक्त   ,  which means  कि   परिसंचरण  is inefficient .
However , single beat PVC arrhythmias do not usually pose a  खतरे  and can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals .
William Gary Busey (  born  June 29 , 1944 ) , better known as Gary  busey  , is an American film and  स्टेज  actor , and artist .
He has appeared in  a  variety of films , including Lethal Weapon , Point Break , and Under Siege  ,  as well as guest appearances on Gunsmoke , Walker , Texas Ranger , Law & Order , and Entourage .
He  थी  nominated for an Academy  पुरस्कार  for Best Actor in  1978  for his role in The  दोस्त  Holly  स्टोरी  .
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement  (  ACTA  )   ,  is a multinational treaty for the purpose of establishing international standards for intellectual  प्रॉपर्टी  rights enforcement .
The agreement aims to establish an international  विधिक  framework for  लक्ष्यीकरण  counterfeit goods , generic medicines and copyright infringement on the Internet , and  होता  create a new governing body outside existing forums ,  ऐसे  as the  संसार   व्यापार  Organization ,  the  World Intellectual Property Organization , or the United Nations .
The agreement was signed in  अक्तूबर  2011 by Australia , Canada , Japan , Morocco , New Zealand , Singapore , South Korea ,  और  the United States .
In 2012 , Mexico , the European Union and 22 countries which are member states of the European Union signed as well .
One signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally approved  )  the agreement , which would come into force in countries that ratified it after ratification by  छह  countries .
Supporters  have  described the agreement as a response to ``  the  increase in global trade  of  counterfeit goods  और  pirated copyright protected works '' .
Trades Unions representing workers in the music  ,  film and  tv  industries and large intellectual property-based organizations such as the Motion Picture Association of America and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America were active in the  सन्धि  's development .
Opponents say  the  convention adversely  affects  fundamental rights including freedom of expression and privacy .
ACTA has also been  criticised  by Doctors Without Borders for endangering  अभिगम  to medicines  in  developing countries .
The secret nature of negotiations has excluded civil society groups , developing countries and the general public  इससे  the agreement 's negotiation process and it  रै  been described as policy laundering by critics including the Electronic  frontier   न्यास  and the Entertainment Consumers Association .
The  हस्ताक्षर  of the EU and many of its member states resulted in the resignation in protest of the European Parliament 's appointed chief  अन्वेषक  , rapporteur Kader Arif , as well as widespread protests  आरपार  Europe .
in  2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur , British MEP David  मार्टिन  , recommended against the treaty , stating :  ``  The intended benefits of this  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  agreement are  दूर  outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties '' .
On 4 July 2012 , the  यूरोपीय  Parliament rejected the agreement in plenary session ,  साथ  478 voting against the treaty , 39 in favour and 165 MEPs abstaining .
FAW semi-trailer truck in China
Tractor with  पक्ष  dump trailer semi-trailer
A tractor  साथ   an  auto-transport semi-trailer .
Semi-trailer truck with sleeper behind the  टैक्सी  .
A semi-trailer truck is an articulated  गाडी  that  consists  of a towing  इंजन   ,  known as a tractor in  the  United States and truck in many  अन्य  places , attached to one  or  more semi-trailers to carry freight .
It is also known  as  a transport in Canada , prime mover in Australia ,  सेमी  , tractor-trailer , truck and trailer  ,   ट्रांसफ़र  truck ,  18-wheeler  , mack truck , big rig in  the  United States  ,  or artic  ,  short for  articulated   लारी  , in Britain  और  Ireland  .
A semi-trailer  करता  not trail completely behind the towing vehicle , but is attached at a point that is just forward  of  the rear-most axle of the  towing  unit .
This is done so that a fraction of the weight of the trailer  is  carried by the prime mover .
This arrangement means that both tractor  और  semi-trailer will  have  a distinctly different design than a rigid truck and trailer .
The Pittsburgh Steelers  हैं  a professional football team based in Pittsburgh  ,  Pennsylvania .
The team currently belongs to the North  प्रभाग  of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Founded in  ,  the Steelers are the oldest franchise in  the  AFC .
Pittsburgh  रै  won  अधिक  Super Bowl titles ( six ) , won more AFC Championship Games ( eight ) and played in ( fifteen ) and hosted more ( eleven )  सम्मेलन  championship  खेल  than any other AFC or  nfc  team .
The Steelers share the record for most Super Bowl appearances with the Dallas  cowboys  ( eight ) .
The Steelers won their most recent championship , Super Bowl XLIII , on February 1 , 2009 .
The Steelers were founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates on July 8 , 1933 , by Art Rooney , taking its original name from the  बेसबॉल  team of the same  नाम  , as was common practice for NFL  टीमों   to  do at the time .
The  स्वामित्व  of the  स्टीलर्स  has remained within the Rooney family since its founding .
The current owner is Art 's  बेटे  , Dan Rooney , who has given  much  control of the franchise to his son Art Rooney II .
Long one of the NFL 's flagship teams , the Steelers enjoy a large , widespread fanbase nicknamed Steeler Nation .
The Steelers currently play their home games at Heinz Field  on  Pittsburgh 's  उत्तर  Side in the  उत्तर  Shore neighborhood , which also hosts the University of Pittsburgh  पैंथर्स  .
Built in 2001 , the stadium replaced Three Rivers Stadium which hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons .
Prior to  तीन  Rivers  ,  the Steelers had played their games in  pitt  Stadium and Forbes Field  .
Three different kinds of wheat and rye  आटा
Flour is a powder which is made by  पीस  cereal grains , or other seeds or roots ( like Cassava ) .
It is the  प्रमुख   संघटक  of bread , which is a staple food for many cultures ,  बनाना  the availability of adequate supplies of flour a major economic  और  political issue  at   विभिन्न  times throughout history .
Wheat flour  is   एक  of the most important foods in European , North American , Middle Eastern , Indian and North  अफ़्रीकी  cultures , and is the defining ingredient in most of their styles  of  breads and pastries .
While wheat is the most common base for flour , corn flour has been important in Mesoamerican cuisine since ancient times , and remains a staple throughout  the  Americas .
Rye flour is an important constituent of bread in much of central Europe , and rice can  भी  be used in flour , though  इस  is relatively  uncommon  .
Heart rate is the number of heartbeats per unit of time , typically expressed  as  beats  प्रति  minute ( bpm ) .
Heart rate can vary as the body  's  need to absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide changes ,  ऐसे  as during physical exercise , sleep , illness , or as a result of ingesting drugs :
Central nervous system stimulants such as  amphetamines  increase heart rate .
Central nervous  प्रणाली  depressants or sedatives  decreases  the heart rate ( apart from some particularly strange ones with equally strange effects , such  as  ketamine which can cause - amongst many other things - stimulant-like effects such  as  tachycardia ) .
There are many ways in which the heart rate  speeds  up or slows down .
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the brain , many  of   जिससे  are those that  हैं  'forced'/'enticed ' out by the  ingestion  and processing of drugs .
Due to individuals having a constant blood volume , one of the physiological ways to deliver more oxygen  to  an organ is to increase heart rate to permit blood to pass by the  अंग  more often .
Normal resting heart rates range from 60-100 bpm .
Bradycardia is defined as a  resting  heart rate below 60 bpm .
However ,  दिल  rates from  50  to 60  bpm  are common among healthy people and do not necessarily require special attention .
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart rate above 100 bpm , though persistent rest rates between 80-100 bpm , mainly if they are present during sleep , may be signs  of  hyperthyroidism or anemia ( see below ) .
Catherine II 's carved , painted and gilded Coronation Coach ( Hermitage Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle  लिये  people , usually horse-drawn ; litters  (  palanquins ) and sedan chairs are excluded , since they are wheelless vehicles .
The carriage is especially designed for  निजी   यात्री  use and for comfort or elegance , though some are also used to transport goods .
It may be light  ,   smart  and fast or heavy , large and comfortable  .
Carriages normally  have  suspension using leaf springs , elliptical springs ( in the 19th century ) or leather strapping .
A  पब्लिक  passenger vehicle would not  प्रायः  be called a carriage  –  terms for such include stagecoach , charabanc and omnibus .
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon and ( two-wheeled ) cart share important parts of the  इतिहास   of  the carriage , as is the fast  (  two-wheeled ) chariot .
The 2004 Indian  समंदर  earthquake was an undersea megathrust earthquake that  occurred  at 00:58:53 UTC on Sunday , 26 December 2004 , with an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra , Indonesia .
The quake itself is known by the scientific community as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake .
the  resulting tsunami was  दिए  various names , including the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami , South Asian  सुनामी  , Indonesian tsunami , and the Boxing Day tsunami .
The earthquake was caused by subduction and triggered a series of devastating tsunamis along the coasts of most landmasses bordering the Indian Ocean  ,  killing over 230,000 people in fourteen countries , and inundating coastal communities with  लहरें  up  to  high .
It was  एक  of the deadliest natural disasters in recorded history .
Indonesia was  the  hardest-hit country , followed by Sri Lanka , India , and Thailand .
साथ  a magnitude of Mw 9.1–9.3 , it  is  the  तीसरा  largest earthquake ever recorded on a seismograph .
The earthquake had  the  longest duration of faulting ever observed , between  8.3  and 10 minutes .
It caused the entire planet to vibrate as much as  और  triggered other earthquakes as far away as Alaska .
Its epicentre was between Simeulue and mainland Indonesia  .
the  plight of the affected people and countries prompted a worldwide humanitarian response .
In all , the worldwide community donated more  than  $ 14 billion ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid .
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in Iceland .
Geothermal energy is thermal energy generated and stored in the Earth .
थर्मल  energy is the energy that determines the temperature of matter .
the  Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the original formation of the planet ( 20 % ) and from radioactive  क्षय  of minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal gradient , which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface , drives a continuous conduction of  थर्मल  energy in the form  of  heat from the core to the surface .
The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη  (  ge ) , meaning earth , and θερμος ( thermos ) , meaning  hot  .
At the core of the Earth  ,  thermal energy is created by radioactive decay and temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ) .
Heat conducts from  the  core to surrounding cooler rock .
The high temperature and  दबाव  cause some rock to melt  ,   बनाना  magma convection upward since it is lighter than the solid  चट्टान  .
The magma heats rock and water in  the  crust , sometimes  up  to 370 °C ( 700 °F  )   .
From hot springs , geothermal energy has been used for bathing  चूंकि  Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman times , but it is now better known for electricity generation .
Worldwide  ,  about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal power is online in  24  countries  .
An additional 28 gigawatts of  सीधा  geothermal  हीटिंग  capacity is installed  लिये  district heating ,  स्पेस  heating , spas , industrial processes , desalination and agricultural applications .
Geothermal power is cost effective , reliable , sustainable , and environmentally friendly  ,  but has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries .
Recent  technological  advances have dramatically expanded the range and size  of  viable resources , especially for applications such as home heating , opening a potential for widespread exploitation .
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases  फंस  deep within the earth ,  लकिन   ये  emissions are much lower per energy unit than those of  चट्टान  fuels .
As a result , geothermal power has  the  potential to help mitigate global warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to supply  मानवता  's energy needs , but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited .
Drilling and exploration for  गहन  resources is very expensive .
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend on assumptions about technology , energy prices  ,  subsidies , and interest rates .
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green  शक्ति  Program show that  ग्राहक  would be willing to pay a little more for a renewable  उर्जा  source like geothermal .
But as a result of government assisted research  और   उद्योग   अनुभव  , the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades .
In 2001 , geothermal energy cost between two and ten cents per kwh .
The term cubic foot  is  an Imperial  और  US customary ( non- metric ) unit of volume , used in  the  United States and the United  किंगडम  .
It  is  defined as the volume of a cube with sides of one foot (  0.3048  m ) in length .
To calculate  घन  feet multiply length X width  x  height  .
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern  वियतनामी  pronunciation : , Southern Vietnamese  उच्चारण  : ) ;  19  May  1890  – 2 September  1969  ) , born  nguyễn  Sinh Cung and also known as Nguyễn Tất Thành  और  Nguyễn Ái Quốc , was a Vietnamese communist revolutionary leader who was prime minister ( 1945–1955  )  and president ( 1945–1969  )  of the Democratic Republic  of   वियतनाम  ( North Vietnam ) .
He  थी  a key figure  in  the foundation  of  the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1945 , as  खूब  as  the  People’s Army of Vietnam  (  PAVN ) and the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC  )  during the Vietnam War .
He led the Việt Minh independence movement  इससे  1941 onward , establishing the communist -ruled Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1945 and defeating the French Union in 1954 at the battle of Điện Biên Phủ .
He officially stepped down from power in 1955 due to health  समस्याएं  , but remained a highly visible figurehead and inspiration for those Vietnamese fighting for his  cause—a  united ,  कम्युनिस्ट  Vietnam—until his death  .
After  the  war ,  साइगॉन  , capital of the Republic of  वियतनाम  , was renamed Hồ Chí Minh City .
All Roads Lead Home is a feature film released on September 26 , 2008 .
Directed by Dennis  fallon  , it stars Peter Boyle , Patton Oswalt , Jason London , Vivien Cardone  ,   वैनेसा  Branch , Peter Coyote  ,   स्टीफन  Milton , and Allan Kayser .
The movie was filmed in and around Kansas City , Missouri .
The movie made its World Premiere January 27 at the  सांता  Barbara  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   फिल्मी  Festival .
The film has also recently been  in  several film festivals , and has received bad reviews .
पीटर  Boyle died before the  फिल्म  's release .
It was the last movie he appeared in  .
Sales taxes in the United States are taxes placed on  the  sale or lease  of  goods and services in the United States  .
While no national general sales tax exists ,  the   संघीय  government levies several national selective sales taxes on the sale  or  lease of  particular  goods and services .
Furthermore , forty-five states , the District of Columbia , and Guam impose general sales taxes  कि  apply to the sale  or  lease of most goods and some  सेवाएं   ,  and states also may  लेवी  selective  बिक्री  taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services .
States may also delegate to  लोकल  governments the authority to impose additional  सामान्य  or selective sales taxes .
Sales tax is calculated by multiplying the purchase  दाम  by the applicable  कर  rate .
Tax rates vary widely by  क्षेत्राधिकार  and range from less than 1 % to  over   10  % .
Sales tax is collected by the seller at the time of sale .
Use tax is self assessed by a buyer who  रै  not paid sales tax on a taxable purchase .
Unlike  the  value added tax , a sales tax is imposed only once , at the retail level .
However , in cases where  वस्तुएं   हैं  sold at retail more than once , such as used cars ,  the  sales tax can be charged on the  वही  item indefinitely .
The definition of retail sales and what  goods  and services are taxable vary among the states .
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous categories of goods and services that are exempt from sales tax , or taxed at reduced rates .
The purchase of goods for further manufacture or for resale is uniformly exempt from sales tax .
Most jurisdictions  exempt  food sold in grocery  स्टोर्स   ,  prescription medications , and  अनेक  agricultural supplies .
Sales taxes  ,  including those imposed by local governments , are generally administered at the state level .
States imposing sales tax require retail sellers to collect tax from customers , file returns , and remit the tax to the state .
Procedural rules vary  widely  .
Sellers generally must collect tax from in-state purchasers  जबतक  the purchaser provides an exemption certificate .
Most states  allow  or require electronic remittance .
A central processing unit  (  CPU ) , also referred to as a central processor unit ,  is  the hardware within  a  computer that  carries  out  the  instructions  of  a computer  कार्यक्रम   by  performing the basic arithmetical , logical , and input/output operations of the system .
The  पद  has  महरूम  in use in the computer industry at least since the early 1960s .
the  form , design , and implementation of CPUs have changed over the course of their history , but their fundamental  आपरेशन  remains much the same  .
A computer can have more than one CPU ; this is called multiprocessing .
Some integrated  circuits  ( ICs ) can contain multiple CPUs on a single chip  ;  those ICs are called multi-core processors .
Two typical components of a CPU are the  गणित  logic unit ( ALU ) , which performs arithmetic and logical  परिचालन  , and the control unit ( CU ) , which extracts instructions from memory and decodes and executes them , calling  on  the ALU when necessary .
Not all computational systems rely on a central  प्रसंस्करण  unit .
An array  प्रोसेसर  or vector processor has multiple  समानांतर  computing elements , with no  एक   ईकाई  considered the ``  बीच  '' .
In the distributed  कम्प्यूटिंग  model , problems are solved by a distributed interconnected set of  processors  .
RFID chip next  to  a grain of rice .
This chip contains  a  radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to transfer a coded identification  क्रमांक  when queried by a reader device .
This small type is incorporated in consumer products , and implanted in  पालतु   ,  for identification purposes .
Radio-frequency  पहचान  ( RFID  )  is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data , for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached  to   वस्तुएँ  .
The  टैग  contain electronically stored  सूचना  .
Some tags are powered and read at short ranges ( a  few  meters ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction )  .
Others use a  लोकल  power source  ऐसे  as a  बैटरी  , or  else  have no  बैटरी  but collect energy from the interrogating EM field ,  और   तब  act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e.  ,  electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ) .
Battery  संचालित  tags may operate at hundreds of meters .
Unlike a  बार  code , the tag  करता   नहीं  necessarily need to be within line of sight of the  रीडर   ,  and may be embedded  in  the tracked object .
RFID tags are used in many industries .
an  RFID tag attached to an automobile during production can be used to track its progress  through  the assembly line .
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through warehouses .
Livestock and pets may have tags  injected  , allowing positive identification of the animal .
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing ,  possessions  , or even implanted within people , the possibility of reading personally-linked  सूचना  without consent has raised privacy concerns .
Overtime is the amount of time someone works  परे  normal working hours .
Normal hours may be determined in several ways:
by custom ( what is considered healthy  or  reasonable by society ) ,
by practices of a given trade or profession,
by legislation,
by  अनुबंध  between employers  और  workers or their representatives .
Most  राष्ट्र  have overtime  मजदूर  laws designed to dissuade or prevent employers from forcing their employees  to  work excessively long hours .
These  कानून  may take into account  अन्य  considerations than the humanitarian , such as preserving the health of workers so that they may  continue  to be productive  ,  or  increasing  the overall level of employment in the economy .
One common approach  to  regulating overtime is to require employers  to  pay workers at a higher hourly rate for overtime  कार्य  .
Companies may choose to  अदा  workers higher overtime pay even if not obliged to do  so  by  विधि   ,  particularly  if  they believe that they face a  पिछड़ा  bending  सप्लाई  curve of labour .
ओवरटाइम   अदा  rates can cause workers to work longer hours than they would at a flat hourly rate .
Overtime laws , attitudes toward overtime and hours  of  work vary greatly from country to country and between different economic sectors  .
Visualization of links between pages on a  विक  using a force-directed layout .
Force-directed graph drawing algorithms are a class of algorithms for drawing graphs in an aesthetically pleasing way .
Their purpose is  to  position the nodes  of  a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional space so that all the edges are of more or less equal length and there are as few  क्रासिंग  edges as possible , by assigning forces among the set of edges  और  the set of nodes , based on their relative positions , and then using these forces either to simulate  the  motion of the edges and nodes or to minimize  उनके  energy .
While graph drawing can be a difficult problem  ,  force-directed algorithms , being physical simulations , usually require no special knowledge about  आलेख  theory such as planarity .
Purchasing power ( sometimes retroactively called adjusted for  महंगाई  ) is the amount of goods or services that can  be   खरीदा  with  a  unit of  करेंसी  .
For example , if you had taken one dollar to a store in the 1950s , you would have been able to buy a greater number of items than you would today , indicating that you  होता   have  had a greater purchasing power in the 1950s  .
Currency can be either a commodity money ,  जैसे  gold or silver , or fiat currency ,  or  free-floating market-valued currency  जैसे   us  dollars .
As Adam Smith noted , having money gives one the ability to `` command  ''  others ' labor , so purchasing power to some extent  is  power over  अन्य  people , to the extent that  वे  are willing to trade their labor or goods for money or currency .
If one 's monetary income  stays  the same , but the price level increases , the purchasing power of that income falls .
Inflation does not always imply falling purchasing power of one 's money income since  it  may rise  तेज़  than the price level .
A higher  रियल  income  अर्थात्  a higher purchasing power since real income refers to  the  income adjusted for inflation .
For a price index ,  इसके  value in the base year is usually normalized to a value of 100 .
The purchasing power of a unit  of  currency , say a dollar , in a  दिए  year , expressed in dollars of the base year , is 100/P , where P is the price index in that year .
So , by definition the purchasing power of a dollar decreases as the price level rises .
The  खरीदना  power in today 's money  of  an  राशि  C  of  money ,  t  years into the future , can be computed with the formula for the present value :
where in this case i is an assumed future annual inflation rate .
Education in South Korea is viewed as  होने  crucial for success  और  competition is consequently very heated and fierce .
A central administration oversees the process  लिये  the  शिक्षा  of children from kindergarten to the  तीसरा  and final year  of  high  स्कूल  .
Mathematics , science , Korean , English , and social  अध्ययन  are generally considered to  be  the most  महत्वपूर्ण  subjects .
Normally physical education is not considered important as it is not recognised  ,  by the generally academic elitist South Korean populace , as education and therefore many schools lack high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics .
South Korea was the first country in the world to provide  high-speed  internet access to all primary , junior , and high schools .
Although South Korean students often rank  अत्यधिक  on international comparative  आकलन  when  compared  to students of most Western education systems ,  the  South Korean education system is criticised for emphasising too much upon passive learning  और  memorisation  .
the  South Korean education  प्रणाली  is rather notably strict and overly structured as  compared  to its counterparts in most Western societies .
Also , the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes such  as  academies or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ] ) , which too emphasise on  passive  memorisation , as opposed to conceptual understanding , in students are criticised as a major social problem .
the   my  Lai Massacre ( , ; , , or ) was the Vietnam War mass murder of  between  347 and 504 unarmed civilians in South Vietnam on March 16 , 1968 , by United States Army soldiers of `` Charlie  ''  Company of 1st Battalion , 20th Infantry Regiment , 11th Brigade of the Americal Division .
Victims included women , men , children  ,   और  infants .
Some of the women were  gang-raped  and their bodies were later found to  be  mutilated and  अनेक  women were  allegedly  raped prior  to  the killings .
While 26 U.S. soldiers were initially  चार्ज  with criminal offenses for their actions at Mỹ Lai , only Second Lieutenant William Calley , a platoon leader in Charlie Company , was convicted .
Found guilty of killing 22  ग्रामीणों  , he  थी  originally given a life sentence , but  तभी  served three and a half years under house arrest .
The massacre took place in  the  hamlets of My Lai  और  My Khe  of  Son My village .
The event is also known as the Son My Massacre , especially in the Vietnamese state media .
The U.S. military codeword for the `` Viet Cong  stronghold  '' was  ``  Pinkville '' .
The incident prompted global outrage when it became public knowledge in 1969  .
The massacre also increased domestic opposition to the U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War .
Three U.S. servicemen who had tried  to   halt  the massacre and protect the wounded were initially  denounced  by several U.S . Congressmen as traitors .
They received  नफ़रत  mail and death threats  और   मिला   mutilated  animals on their doorsteps .
The three were later widely praised and decorated by the Army for their heroic actions .
The hijackers in the September  11  attacks were 19 men affiliated  साथ  al-Qaeda , and 15 of the 19 were citizens  of  Saudi Arabia .
Others were from Egypt , Lebanon , and the UAE .
The  hijackers  were organized into four teams  ,  each led by a pilot-trained hijacker with  चार  `` muscle hijackers '' who were  प्रशिक्षित  to help subdue  the   पायलटों  , passengers , and  क्रू  .
The first hijackers to arrive in the United States were Khalid  al-mihdhar  and Nawaf  al-hazmi  , who settled in  the  San Diego area in January 2000 .
They were followed by three hijacker-pilots , Mohamed Atta  ,  Marwan al-Shehhi , and Ziad Jarrah early in the summer of 2000 to undertake  उड़ान  training in south Florida .
The fourth hijacker-pilot , Hani Hanjour ,  arrived   in   सैन  Diego in December 2000 .
The rest of the `` muscle hijackers '' arrived in the spring and early summer of 2001 , just months before the September 11 attacks .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn  ʿabd  Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim (  )  ( circa| 570  –  circa| 8 June 632  )  , also transliterated as Muhammad ( ) , was a religious , political ,  और  military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam .
He is believed by Muslims and Bahá'ís to be  a  messenger and prophet  of  God .
Muhammad is almost universally considered  by  Muslims as the  पिछला  prophet  भेजा  by God for mankind  .
Non-Muslims regard Muhammad as the  संस्थापक  of Islam  .
Muslims consider  उसे  to be the restorer  of  an unaltered original monotheistic  आस्था  of Adam  ,  Noah , Abraham  ,  Moses , Jesus , and other prophets  .
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca , he was  अनाथ  at an early  आयु  and brought up under the care of his uncle  abu  Talib .
He  बाद  worked mostly as a merchant  ,  as well as a shepherd , and  थी  first married by age 25 .
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for several nights of seclusion and prayer , he later  reported  that it was there , at  आयु  40 , that he received his first revelation  इससे  God .
Three  सालो  after this event Muhammad started preaching  ये  revelations publicly , proclaiming that `` God is One  ``  , that complete `` surrender  ''  to Him (  lit  .
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God , and that he himself was a prophet and  मेसेंजर  of  परमेश्वर   ,   in  the same vein as other Islamic prophets .
मुहम्मद  gained few followers early on , and was met with hostility from some Meccan tribes ; he and his followers were treated harshly .
To escape  persecution  , Muhammad sent some of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in  the  year 622 .
This event  ,  the Hijra , marks the beginning of  the  Islamic calendar , which is also known  as  the Hijri Calendar .
In  मदीना  ,  मुहम्मद  united the tribes under the Constitution  of  Medina .
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes , his followers  ,  who by then had grown to 10,000 , took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca .
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his followers out to destroy all  of  the remaining  pagan  temples in Eastern Arabia .
in  632 , a few  महीने   बाद  returning to Medina from The Farewell  यात्राएं  , Muhammad fell ill and died .
By the time of his death ,  सबसे   of  the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam , and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity .
The revelations ( or Ayah , lit .
``  लक्षण  [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported  receiving  until his death – form the verses of the Quran , regarded by Muslims as  the  `` Word of God '' and  around  which the religion is based .
Besides the  कुरान  , Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are also upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law .
वे  discuss Muhammad  और  other  नबियों  of Islam with reverence , adding the phrase  सलाम  be  upon  him whenever their names are mentioned .
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times  यहूद  largely negative , appraisals in modern history  have  been far less  so  .
This is a list of  टेबल  of the  सत्यापित   oldest  people in the world in ordinal rank , such as oldest person or oldest  man  .
In these tables , a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his  or  her claim has been validated  by  an international  देह   कि  specifically  सौदे  in longevity research , such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
The longest unambiguously documented human lifespan is  कि  of Jeanne Calment  of  France ( 1875–1997 )  ,  who died at age 122 years , 164 days .
She  मिले  Vincent van Gogh  जब  she was 12 or 13 .
इस  led to news media attention in 1985 , after Calment turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age  ,  beyond  कोई   उचित  question , in the  रिकॉर्ड  of her native city , Arles ,  फ़्रांस  .
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan  रै  been  उत्पादित  than for  कोई  other supercentenarian ; her case serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people .
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura , who currently lives in Japan and is age as  of  .
Since the  मौत  of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States  ,  on 17 December 2012 , Kimura , born 19 April 1897 , is the oldest  जीना  person in the world whose age can be documented .
He has also been the oldest living man since the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011 .
Since  the  death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013 , the oldest living woman has been -year-old Misao Okawa , also  इससे  Japan , born on 5  कूच  1898  .
This is a timeline of the African-American Civil  अधिकारों  Movement .
The Civil Rights movement  थी  a  स्वतंत्रता  struggle by African Americans in  the  1950s and 1960s to  लाभ  equality .
The goals of  the  movement were freedom from discrimination , equal opportunity in employment , education and housing  ,  the right to  vote  and equal access to public  सुविधाएं  .
Heavy metal ( often  referred  to as metal ) is a genre of rock  म्यूज़िक  that developed in the late 1960s  और  early 1970s ,  largely  in the United Kingdom and in the United States .
With roots in blues rock and psychedelic rock , the bands that created heavy metal developed a thick , massive  ध्वनि  , characterized by  अत्यधिक  amplified distortion , extended guitar solos , emphatic beats , and  overall  loudness .
Heavy metal  गीत  and  प्रदर्शन  styles  हैं  generally associated with masculinity and machismo .
the   पहला   भारी  metal bands  ऐसे  as Led Zeppelin , Deep Purple and  ब्लैक   sabbath  attracted large audiences , though they  यहूद  often derided by critics ,  a  status  आम  throughout the history of the genre .
In the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur  the  genre 's evolution by discarding much of  इसके  blues influence  ;  Motörhead introduced a punk rock  sensibility  and an increasing  जोर  on speed .
Bands in the New Wave of British Heavy Metal such  as  Iron Maiden  followed  in a similar  रग  .
Before the end of the  दशक  ,  भारी  metal fans became known as ``  metalheads  `` or `` headbangers `` .
During  the   1980s  , glam metal became a commercial force with groups like Mötley Crüe and Poison .
Underground scenes produced an array of more extreme , aggressive styles : thrash metal broke into the mainstream  साथ  bands such as Metallica , Megadeth , Slayer , and Anthrax , while other styles of  the  most extreme subgenres of metal like  मौत   मेटल   और  black metal remain subcultural phenomena .
Since the mid-1990s , popular styles such as nu metal , which often incorporates elements of grunge and hip hop ; and metalcore , which  मिश्रणों   चरम  metal with hardcore punk , have further expanded the definition of the genre  .
The far-right  (  also known as the extreme right ) refers to the highest degree of rightism in right-wing politics .
Far right  राजनीती  involves support of strong or complete social hierarchy in society , and supports supremacy of certain individuals or groups deemed to be innately superior or  अस्तबलों  who are to  be  more  valued  than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable .
The far right  's  advocacy of supremacism  is  based on what its  adherents  perceive as innate characteristics of people that can not be changed .
This stands as a point of difference with the centre-right 's attribution of behaviours , such as  आलस्य   or   decadence  , as the  प्राथमिक   स्त्रोत  of social inequalities .
The centre right—unlike the far right—claims that people can end their behavioural  हीनता  through  बदलना  their habits and choices .
the   असली  far right , which  उभरा  in France after the French Revolution ,  refused  to accept  the   फ्रेंच  Republic and supported a counter-revolution to restore  the  French monarchy and aristocracy .
The far right is  commonly  associated with persons or groups who hold extreme  राष्ट्रवादी  , xenophobic , racist ,  धार्मिक  fundamentalist or reactionary views .
The most extreme-right movements have pursued  दमन  and genocide  विरूद्ध  groups of people on the basis of their alleged inferiority .
थामस  Hobbes  of  Malmesbury ( 5 April  1588  –  4  December 1679 ) , in some older texts Thomas Hobbs of Malmsbury , was  an  English philosopher , best known today for his work on political philosophy .
His 1651 book Leviathan established the foundation for most  of  Western political philosophy from the perspective of social contract theory .
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign , but  he  also  विकसित  some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought : the right of the individual ; the natural equality of all men ; the artificial character of the political order ( which led to the later distinction between  सिविल  society and  the  state ) ; the  दृश्य  that all legitimate political power must be `` representative '' and based on the consent of  the  people  ;  and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people  फ़्री  to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid  .
He was one of the founders of  आधुनिक  political philosophy .
His understanding of humans as being  पदार्थ  and motion , obeying the same physical laws as other matter and motion ,  remains  influential ; and his  खाता  of human nature as self-interested cooperation , and of political communities as being based upon a `` social contract `` remains one of  the  major topics of political philosophy .
In addition to  राजनैतिक  philosophy , Hobbes also contributed to a diverse array of other fields , including history , geometry , the physics of gases , theology , ethics , and general philosophy .
Emotional intelligence (  ei  )  is  the ability to identify , assess , and control the emotions of oneself , of others , and of groups .
It can be  विभाजित  into ability EI and trait EI .
Ability EI is usually measured using maximum performance tests and has stronger relationships with traditional intelligence , whereas trait EI is usually  measured  using self-report questionnaires and has stronger relationships with personality .
Criticisms have centered on whether EI is a real intelligence  और  whether it has incremental validity over IQ and the Big Five personality traits .
आनुवंशिकता  is the passing of traits to offspring from its parents or ancestor .
This is  the  process by which an offspring cell or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the characteristics of  इसके  parent cell or organism .
Through heredity , variations exhibited  by  individuals can accumulate and cause some species to evolve .
The study of  आनुवंशिकता  in biology is  पुकारा  genetics , which includes  the   फ़ील्ड  of epigenetics .
For United States individual  आय  tax , adjusted gross income ( AGI ) is total gross income minus specific reductions .
Taxable income is adjusted gross income minus allowances for personal exemptions and itemized deductions .
For  सबसे   व्यक्तिगत  tax purposes , AGI is more relevant than gross income .
Gross income  is  sales price of goods or property , minus cost of the property sold , plus other income .
It includes wages , interest , dividends , business  आय  , rental income , and all other types of income .
Adjusted gross income is gross income less deductions from a business or rental activity and 21 other specific items .
Several deductions  (   e.g   .  medical expenses and miscellaneous itemized deductions ) are limited based on a percentage of AGI .
Certain phase outs  ,  including those of lower tax  दरों  and itemized deductions , are based on levels of AGI  .
Many states base state income tax on AGI with  निश्चित   deductions  .
`` Lazy Eye '' is the  तीसरा   सिंगल  from Silversun Pickups ' debut album Carnavas .
The band performed the song on the Late Show with David Letterman , The Tonight Show with Jay Leno , Later With Jools  हॉलैंड  , and Last Call with Carson Daly .
The song is a playable track on Rock Band 2 and Guitar Hero : World Tour .
An alternate version of the song , with a length of 7:27 , was played on XMU before the shorter version was played on FM  और  other XM channels .
This version was featured on their demo CD ( which  प्रदर्शित  early versions of four tracks ) .
A telephone prefix is the first set of digits of  a  telephone number ; in the North American Numbering Plan countries (  देश  code 1 ) , it is the  पहला  three digits of a seven-digit phone number .
in  other countries both the prefix  और  the number may  have  different lengths .
It  shows   जिससे  exchange the remaining numbers  refer  to .
A full telephone number is usually made  up  of country code  (   जरूरी  for international calls  तभी  ) , area code ( required for calls between telephone areas ) , prefix , and subscriber number .
Some places restrict certain prefixes to fax numbers or cell phones only ; in other  स्थान  such dedicated prefixes are not  प्रयुक्त  .
As telephone technology advanced  ,  the precise significance of the prefix became blurred in many places ; 485 in  लंदन  , UK , was once the GULliver exchange , but now 44207485xxxx is just considered one of  अनेक  number blocks  परोसा  by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another .
metformin  ( BP , pronounced , ; originally sold as Glucophage ) is an oral antidiabetic  ड्रग  in the biguanide  क्लास  .
It is the  first-line  drug  of  choice for the treatment of type 2 diabetes , in particular , in overweight and obese people and those with  सामान्य  kidney function .
इसके   उपयोग  in gestational diabetes has been limited by safety concerns .
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic  ovary  syndrome ,  और  has been investigated for other diseases where insulin resistance may be an important factor .
Metformin works by suppressing  ग्लूकोज  production by  the  liver .
metformin  is the only antidiabetic drug that has been conclusively shown to prevent the cardiovascular complications  of  diabetes .
it   helps  reduce LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels , and is not  संबद्ध  with  वज़न  gain .
, metformin is one of only two oral  antidiabetics  in the World Health Organization  मॉडल  List of Essential Medicines ( the other being glibenclamide ) .
When prescribed  appropriately  , metformin causes few adverse effects ( the  सबसे  common is gastrointestinal upset ) and is associated  साथ  a low risk of hypoglycemia .
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a serious concern in overdose and when it is prescribed to people  साथ  contraindications , but otherwise , there is no significant risk .
First synthesized and found to reduce blood  शुगर  in the 1920s  ,  metformin was forgotten for the next two decades as research shifted to insulin and other antidiabetic drugs  .
Interest in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several reports that it could reduce  रक्त  sugar levels in people ,  और   in  1957 , French physician Jean Sterne  प्रकाशित  the first clinical trial  of  metformin as  a  treatment for diabetes .
It was  introduced  to the United Kingdom in 1958 , Canada in 1972 , and the United  राज्य   in  1995 .
Metformin is now believed to be the most widely prescribed antidiabetic drug in the world ; in the United States alone , more than 48 million prescriptions  यहूद  filled in 2010 for its  जेनेरिक  formulations .
The Mount Rushmore National Memorial is a sculpture carved into  the  granite face of Mount Rushmore near  keystone   ,  South Dakota , in the United States .
Sculpted by Danish-American  gutzon  Borglum and his son , Lincoln  borglum  , Mount Rushmore features sculptures  of  the heads of four United States presidents  :   जार्ज  Washington , Thomas Jefferson , Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln .
The entire  मेमोरियल  covers and is above sea level .
The tallest  पहाड़  in the region is Harney Peak (  )  .
South  डकोटा  historian Doane Robinson is credited  साथ  conceiving the idea of carving the likenesses of famous people into the  ब्लैक  Hills region of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in  the  region .
Robinson 's initial  विचार  was to sculpt  the  Needles ; however , Gutzon Borglum rejected the Needles site because of the poor  विशेषता  of the granite and strong opposition from  पर्यावरणविद  and Native American groups  .
They settled on the Mount Rushmore location , which also has the advantage  of  facing southeast for maximum sun exposure .
Robinson wanted it to feature western heroes like  लुईस  and Clark  ,  Red Cloud and Buffalo Bill Cody but Borglum decided the  मूर्तिकला  should have a more national focus , and chose the four  राष्ट्रपतियों  whose likenesses would be carved  into  the mountain .
After  securing  federal  funding  , construction on the memorial began  in  1927 , and  the  presidents ' faces were completed between 1934 and 1939 .
Upon Gutzon Borglum 's death in March 1941  ,  his son Lincoln Borglum took over construction .
Although the initial concept called for each president to be depicted from head  to  waist , lack of funding  मजबूर  construction to end in  लेट  October 1941 .
The U.S.  नेशनल   पार्क  Service took control of the  मेमोरियल  in 1933  ,  while it was still under construction , and has  प्रबंधित  the memorial to the present day .
It attracts nearly three million  लोगों  annually .
Charvet dress shirt from the 1930s , Norsk Folkemuseum , Oslo .
a  shirt , dress shirt , button-front , button-front shirt  ,  or button-up shirt  is  a garment with a collar  ,  a full-length opening at the front from the collar to the hem  ,  and sleeves with cuffs .
Shirts are predominantly used by  मेन  , since women usually wear  blouses  .
The front opening is fastened using buttons or studs ,  और  the  cuffs  close with buttons or cuff links .
Shirts are normally made from woven cloth , and are often accompanied by a  जैकेट  and tie , for example  साथ  a suit or formalwear , but shirts are also worn  अधिक  casually .
in  British English , dress shirt means specifically the more  औपचारिक  evening garment worn with black- or white- tie , also discussed below .
Some of these formal shirts have stiff fronts  और  detachable collars attached with collar  studs  .
The term `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of  कमीज़  which has a collar fastened down by buttons  )  is sometimes  प्रयुक्त  in error to apply to all shirts ( with or without buttoned down collars ) , being used as a synonym for `` button-up ''  or  `` button-front '' .
Administrative Professionals Day  (  also  ज्ञात  as  secretaries  Day or Admin Day  )  is  an   unofficial  secular holiday observed in several countries to recognize the work of secretaries , administrative assistants , receptionists  ,  and other administrative support professionals .
In North America  ,  it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last full  सप्ताह  of April ( April  24  in 2013 ) .
In France it is  मनाये  on the third Thursday in April (  अप्रैल  18 in 2013 ) .
In Australia it is  मनाये  on the first Friday in May
Blasting can be:
Abrasive blasting
Blast furnace
चट्टान  blasting
Nicolas Poussin  (  ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) was the leading painter of the classical French Baroque style , although he spent most of his  working  life in  रोम   .
His work is  characterized  by clarity , logic  ,  and order , and favors  लकीर  over color .
Until the 20th century  he  remained a  प्रमुख  inspiration for  ऐसे  classically oriented artists as Jacques-Louis David , Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres and Paul Cézanne .
He worked in Rome for a circle of leading  collectors  there  और  elsewhere , except for a short period when Cardinal Richelieu ordered him back to  फ़्रांस  to  serve  as First Painter to the King .
Most  of  his works are  इतिहास  paintings  of  religious or mythological subjects that very  प्रायः  have a large landscape element .
जैकी  Keith Whitley ( July 1 , 1954Stambler , Irwin , and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ) . - Country Music : The Encyclopedia . - New  यॉर्क  : St.  मार्टिन  's Press .  -  p.533 . - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin , Richard ( 2003 )  .  -  देश  Music : A Biographical Dictionary .  -  New York : Routledge  -  p.427 . - ISBN  978-0-415-93802-0.—larkin  , Colin ( 1995 ) . - The  गिनीज  Encyclopedia of Popular Music . - New York : Stockton  दबायें  - P.4462 .  -   isbn  978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton , Scott (  2003  ) . - The Tombstone Tourist :  संगीतकारों  . - New York : Pocket Books .  -   p.395  . - ISBN 978-0-7434-6330-0.—Hicks , Jack . - ``  सिंगर  Keith Whitley 's Memory Alive Through Songs , Love in Home Town '' . - The Kentucky Post . - September 25 , 1991.— '' Country Music  स्टार  Keith Whitley Dead at 33 '' . - Lexington Herald-Leader . -  may   10  , 1989.——Hurst , Jack . - `` Whitley  's  Last Days '' . - Chicago Tribune . - May 14 , 1989.— ''  दारू  Kills Country Singer Keith Whitley ''  .  -  संयुक्त  Press International .  -  ( c/o The San Francisco  वृत्तान्त  ) . - May 10 , 1989 . — May 9 ,  1989  ) , known professionally as Keith Whitley  ,  was an  अमरीकी   देश  music singer .
Whitley 's brief career in mainstream country music lasted from 1984 until his death in 1989 ,  लकिन  he continues  to  influence  an  entire generation of singers  और  songwriters .
he  charted 19  singles  on the Billboard country  चार्ट  , including  पाँच  consecutive Number  ones   :  `` Do n't Close Your Eyes `` , `` When You Say Nothing at All  ``  , `` I 'm No  अजनबी  to the  बरसात  `` ,  ``  I Wonder Do You  सोचो  of Me `` and `` It Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the  पिछला   दो  posthumously ) .
Statute of Grand Duchy of Lithuania  ,  written  in  Polish
A statute is a formal written enactment of a legislative authority  कि  governs a state , city ,  or  county .
Typically , statutes command or prohibit something , or declare policy .
The word is often used to distinguish law made by legislative bodies from case law , decided by courts , and regulations issued by government agencies .
Statutes are sometimes referred to as legislation or `` black letter law . ''
as   a  source of law , statutes are considered primary  प्राधिकार  ( as opposed to secondary authority ) .
Ideally all statutes must be  in  harmony with the fundamental law of the land ( constitutional ) .
This word is used in contradistinction to the common law .
Statutes acquire their force from the time of their passage  ,  however unless otherwise provided .
Statutes are of several kinds ; namely , Public or private .
Declaratory or  remedial  .
Temporary  or  perpetual .
A temporary statute is one which is limited in its duration at the  समय  of its enactment .
It continues in force until the time of its limitation  रै  expired , unless sooner repealed  .
A perpetual statute is one for the continuance of which there is no  सीमित  time , although it may not be expressly declared to be so .
If , however , a statute which  किया  not itself contain any limitation is to be governed by  another  which is temporary only ,  the   पूर्व  will also be temporary and dependent upon the  अस्तित्व  of the latter .
Before a statute becomes law in some countries , it must be agreed upon by the highest executive in the government , and finally published as part of a code .
In many countries , statutes are organized in topical arrangements (  or   ``  codified '' ) within  publications  called codes , such as the United States Code .
In  अनेक  nations statutory law is distinguished from and  अधीनस्थ  to  संवैधानिक  law .
The external iliac arteries are two  प्रमुख  arteries which bifurcate off  the  common iliac arteries anterior to the sacroiliac joint  of  the pelvis .
They proceed anterior and inferior along the medial border of the psoas major  मांसपेशियां  .
वे  exit the pelvic  girdle  posterior and inferior to the inguinal  स्नायु   परिचय  one third laterally from the insertion point of the inguinal ligament on the  जननांग  tubercle at which point they are referred to  as  the femoral arteries .
The external  iliac  artery is usually the artery used to attach the renal  धमनी   to  the recipient of  a  kidney  प्रत्यारोपण  .
Steam  is  a  डिजिटल  distribution , digital rights management  ,  multiplayer and communications  मंच  developed by Valve Corporation .
It is used to distribute games  और  related media online , from small independent developers to larger software houses  ;   in  October 2012 , Valve expanded the service to include  non-gaming  software .
Steam  provides  the user  साथ  installation and automatic management of software across multiple  कंप्यूटर  , community features such as  मित्रों   सूचियाँ  and groups , cloud saving , and in-game voice and chat functionality .
The software provides a freely available application programming interface , Steamworks  ,  that developers can take advantage of to integrate many of Steam 's functions within their software products , including copy protection , networking and matchmaking , in-game achievements and micro-transactions , and support for user-created content  through  Steam Workshop .
Though initially developed  लिये  use on Microsoft Windows  ,   the  client has expanded to include OS  x  and Linux versions ,  और  clients with limited functionality on  the  PlayStation 3 console and for both iOS and  एंड्रॉइड  mobile devices .
In addition to being  a  central hub for  गेमिंग  software ,  वाल्व  has created a version of Steam with altered functionality to be used in schools for educational software , including a modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons .
,  there are nearly 2000 games available through Steam , and 54 million active user accounts .
As of January 2013 , Steam has seen over 6.6 million concurrent players .
भाप  has an estimated  50–70  % share of the digital distribution market for video games .
The Steam logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank and rod from the Walschaerts valve gear of  a  steam locomotive .
Jerry Lewis ( born March 16 , 1926 ) is an American comedian , actor , singer ,  फिल्मी  producer , screenwriter  और  film director .
He is known for his slapstick humor  in  film , television  ,  stage and radio .
He was originally paired up with Dean Martin in 1946 , forming the famed comedy team of Martin and Lewis  .
In addition to the duo 's  लोकप्रिय  nightclub work , they starred in a successful series of comedy  films  for Paramount Pictures .
Lewis is also known for his charity fund-raising telethons and position as national chairman for  the  Muscular Dystrophy Association ( MDA ) .
Lewis has  जीती  several awards for lifetime achievements from The American Comedy Awards , Los Angeles Film Critics  संघ   ,  and Venice Film Festival , and he has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame  .
In 2005 , he received the Governors Award of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Board of Governors , which  is   the  highest Emmy Award presented .
On February 22 ,  2009  ,  the  Academy of Motion Picture  कला  and Sciences awarded Lewis the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award .
The Rhine (  ;  ; ) is a European  नदी  that runs  इससे  the Swiss canton of Grisons in  the  southeastern Swiss  ऐल्प्स  through Germany and eventually flows into  the  North Sea coast in the Netherlands  और  is the  बारहवीं   longest  river in  यूरोपीय  , at about , with an average discharge of more  than  .
the  Rhine and the Danube formed  सबसे  of the northern inland frontier of the Roman Empire and  ,  since those days  ,  the Rhine has been a vital and  navigable  waterway carrying trade and goods  गहन  inland .
It has also served as  a  defensive feature and has been the basis  लिये  regional and international borders .
the  many castles and prehistoric fortifications along the Rhine testify to its importance  as  a waterway .
River traffic could be stopped at these locations , usually for the purpose of collecting tolls , by  the  state that controlled that portion of  the   नदी  .
Sri ( Sinhala )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री , IAST ; Śrī ) , also transliterated as Sree or Shri or Shree is a word of Sanskrit origin , used in the Indian subcontinent as polite form of address equivalent to the English ``  mr.  '' in written  और  spoken language  ,  or as a title of  veneration  for deities ( usually  अनूदित   as  `` Holy '' ) .
Design of complex structures like the International Space Station needs in-depth understanding of Structural Analysis .
Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design , construction , and maintenance  of  the physical and naturally built  पर्यावरण  , including works like roads  ,  bridges , canals , dams , and  इमारतें  .
सिविल  engineering  is  the  oldest  engineering discipline after military engineering ,  और  it was  पारिभाषित  to distinguish non-military engineering from military engineering .
It is traditionally  टूटा  into several sub-disciplines including  पर्यावरणीय  engineering , geotechnical engineering , geophysics , geodesy , control engineering , structural engineering  ,  biomechanics , nanotechnology , transportation engineering , earth science  ,   वायुमंडलीय  sciences , forensic engineering , municipal or urban  अभियान्त्रिकी   ,  water  संसाधन  engineering  ,  materials engineering , coastal engineering , surveying , and construction engineering  .
Civil engineering takes place  on  all levels : in the public sector  इससे  municipal through  to  national  सरकारें  , and in the private sector  इससे  individual homeowners through to international companies .
Katherine Dunham in Tropical  revue
Katherine Dunham in Studio
Katherine Dunham in Tropical Review Tropical Review , Martin  बेक  Theatre
Katherine Dunham wearing dance costume
Katherine Dunham in Cumbia
Katherine  dunham  ( June  22  , 1909 – May 21 , 2006  )  was an American dancer , choreographer , author , educator , and social activist  .
Dunham had one of the most successful dance careers in American and European theater of the 20th century , and directed her own  नृत्य  company for  अनेक   सालो  .
She has been called the `` matriarch and queen mother of black  नृत्य  '' .
दौरान  her heyday in the 1940s and  1950s  , Dunham was renowned throughout Europe and Latin America and was widely popular in the United States , where the Washington Post called  उसके  `` dancer Katherine the Great '' .
For  लगभग  thirty years she maintained the  कैथरीन   dunham  Dance Company , the only self-supported American black dance troupe at that time , and over her long career she choreographed more  than  ninety individual dances .
Dunham was an  innovator  in African-American modern dance as  खूब  as a leader in the field of dance anthropology , or ethnochoreology .
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500 species of mosses  ,  commonly called peat moss  due  to its prevalence in wet habitats where it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires .
Sphagnum accumulations can store water , since both living and dead plants can hold large quantities of water inside  उनके  cells ; plants may hold from 16-26 times as much water  as  their dry weight  depending  on the species .
The empty cells help retain water in drier conditions .
Hence ,  as  sphagnum moss grows , it can  धीरे  spread  into  drier conditions , forming  larger  peatlands , both raised  bogs  and blanket bogs .
These peat accumulations then  provide  habitat for a wide array of peatland plants , including sedges and ericaceous shrubs , as well as orchids and carnivorous plants .
Sphagnum and the peat formed from it do not decay readily because of the phenolic compounds embedded in the moss  's  cell walls .
In addition , bogs , like all wetlands , develop anaerobic soil conditions , which  produces  slower anaerobic decay rather than aerobic microbial action .
Peat moss  can  also acidify its  परिवेश  by  लेने  up cations , such as calcium and magnesium , and releasing hydrogen ions .
Under the right conditions , peat can accumulate to a depth of many meters .
Different species of  sphagnum  have different tolerance limits for flooding and pH , so any one peatland  may  have a  क्रमांक   of  different Sphagnum species .
व्यक्तिगत  peat moss plants consist of a main stem , with tightly arranged clusters of branch fascicles usually consisting of two  or  three spreading branches  और  two to four hanging branches .
the   शीर्ष  of the  संयंत्र  , or capitulum , has compact  क्लस्टर  of  यंग  branches .
Along the stem are scattered leaves of various shapes , named stem leaves  ;  the shape varies according to  प्रजाति   .
The leaves consist of two kinds of cells ; small , green ,  जीना  cells ( chlorophyllose cells ) , and large  ,   साफ  , structural , dead cells ( hyaline cells )  .
The latter have the large water-holding capacity .
The earliest version of the Network Card , issued manually rather than through an APTIS machine .
The first APTIS version of the Network Card  .
This was used from the start  of  the APTIS era in 1986/1987 until well  into   the  1990s , as  स्टॉक्स  had to be used up despite the introduction of the new-look orange-banded version in  1991  .
The introduction of the weekday minimum fare condition in  2002  resulted in a minor  बदलें  : the red ``  r  '' shows that this is the `` Revised  ''  version of the railcard .
इस  version is still in use as of 2007 .
the  Network Railcard is a discount card introduced in 1986 by British Rail , upon the creation of their Network SouthEast area around London , England .
The card is  intended  to encourage leisure travel by rail by offering discounts for adults and accompanying children on a wide range of off-peak fares .
The range of discounts available , and the price of  the  card ,  have  varied since that time , but the card has always been valid for a  साल  's unlimited use .
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National Rail station or Rail Appointed Travel Agent , by completing an application form - no photographic identification or other documentation is needed to buy  or  use the card  .
It  is  one of a number of concessionary fare schemes available on  the  British railway system .
The United Nations ( UN ; French  :  Organisation des Nations Unies ,  onu   )  is the world 's  largest   ,   foremost  , and most prominent international organization .
The stated aims of the United  राष्ट्र  include promoting  और  facilitating cooperation in international law  ,   अंतरराष्ट्रीय   सुरक्षा  , economic  विकास  , social progress , human  अधिकारों  , civil rights , civil liberties ,  राजनैतिक  freedoms , democracy , and the achievement of lasting world peace .
The UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to replace the League of Nations , to stop wars between countries , and to provide a platform for dialogue .
it  contains multiple subsidiary organizations to  carry  out its missions .
At its founding , the UN had 51 member states ; as of 2011 ,  वहीँ   हैं  193 .
From its offices around the world , the UN and its specialized  एजेंसियों  decide on substantive and administrative issues in regular meetings  आयोजित  throughout the year .
The organization has six principal organs  :  the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the  सुरक्षा  Council ( for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security  )  ; the  आर्थिक  and Social Council ( for assisting in promoting international  आर्थिक  and social cooperation and development ) ; the Secretariat  (  for providing  अध्ययन  , information  ,  and facilities needed by the UN ) ; the International Court of Justice ( the primary  न्यायिक   अंग  ) ; and the United Nations Trusteeship Council ( which is currently inactive ) .
Other prominent  un  System  एजेंसियों  include the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , the World Food Programme ( WFP )  और  United  राष्ट्र  Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) .
The UN 's most prominent position is that of the office of Secretary-General which has been held by Ban Ki-moon of South Korea since 2007 .
The United Nations Headquarters resides in international territory in New York  नगर   ,  with further  प्रमुख   कार्यालयों  at  जेनेवा  , Nairobi , and Vienna .
The organization is financed from assessed and voluntary contributions from its  सदस्य  states , and has  छह  official languages : Arabic , Chinese  ,  English , French , Russian , and Spanish .
South  बीच  , also nicknamed SoBe  ,   is  a  पड़ोस  in the city  of  Miami Beach ,  फ्लोरिडा  , United  राज्य  , located due east of Miami city proper between Biscayne Bay and the  अटलांटिक  Ocean .
The area encompasses all of the barrier islands of  मियामी   बीच  south of Indian Creek .
This area was the first  खण्ड   of  Miami  बीच  to be developed , starting in  the   1910s  , thanks to the development efforts of Carl  G.  Fisher , the Lummus Brothers , and John S. Collins , the  latter  whose construction  of  the Collins Bridge provided the  पहला  vital land link between mainland Miami and the beaches .
The area has gone through  numerous  artificial and natural changes over  the  years , including a booming regional  अर्थव्यवस्था  , increased  पर्यटन  , and the 1926 hurricane , which destroyed much of the  क्षेत्रफल  .
As of 2010 , about 39,186 residents live in South Beach .
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday , November 8 , 1960 .
The Republican Party nominated  लाज़िम  Vice-President Richard Nixon , while the  लोकतांत्रिक  Party  मनोनीत  John F. Kennedy , Senator from Massachusetts .
The  लाज़िम  President , Republican  ड्वाइट  D. Eisenhower , was not eligible  लिये  re-election  बाद   सेवारत  the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment .
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes , or 0.17 % of the popular vote , giving him a victory  of  303 to 219 in the Electoral College ,  the  closest since 1916 .
This was the first election in which all fifty of the current United States participated .
A number of factors explain why  the  election was so close .
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which hurt the  लाज़िम  Republican , and he had the advantage of 17 million more  पंजीकृत  Democrats than  republicans  .
Furthermore  ,   the  new votes that Kennedy gained among Catholics  लगभग  neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants .
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched Nixon 's .
In the  समाप्त  , Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried  छोटी   वज़न  , and he  wasted  energy by campaigning in all  50  states instead of concentrating on the swing  राज्य  .
Kennedy used his large , well-funded campaign organization to win  the   नामांकन  , secure endorsements , and , with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses , to get out the vote in the big cities .
He relied on running mate Lyndon B. Johnson to hold the South  और  used television  effectively  .
This election is notable as being the first  समय  in U.S. history that two sitting U.S . Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as president and  vice-president  , a  घटना  that has been  दोहराया  once  ,  by  बराक  Obama and  जो  Biden in 2008 ( in both cases ,  the  president was the younger , more junior senator ) .
A poster for a c. 1884 American production of Macbeth , starring Thomas W. Keene .
Depicted , counter clockwise from top-left , are : Macbeth and Banquo meet the witches ; just after the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth .
Macbeth is a play written by William Shakespeare .
It is considered one of his darkest  और  most powerful tragedies .
Set in Scotland , the play dramatizes the corroding psychological and political effects produced when its protagonist , the Scottish  रब  Macbeth  ,  chooses evil as the way to fulfill his ambition for power  .
He commits regicide to become king and then furthers his moral descent with a reign of murderous terror to stay in power  ,   आखिरकार  plunging the country into civil war .
In the  समाप्त  , he loses everything  कि  gives meaning and purpose to his life before losing his life itself  .
The play is believed to have been  लिखा  between 1603 and 1607  ,   और   is  most  commonly  dated 1606  .
the  earliest account  of  a performance of what was probably Shakespeare 's play is April 1611 , when Simon Forman  अंकित  seeing such a  खेल  at the Globe Theatre .
It was  पहला  published in the Folio of 1623 , possibly from a prompt book .
It was most likely written during the  शासनकाल  of James I , who had been James VI of Scotland before he succeeded to the English throne in 1603 .
James  थी  a patron of Shakespeare’s acting company , and of all the plays Shakespeare wrote during James’s reign , Macbeth most clearly reflects the playwright’s relationship  साथ  the sovereign .
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy , and tells the story of a  वीर  Scottish general named  मैकबेथ  who receives a prophecy from a trio of witches that one  दिन  he will become King of Scotland .
Consumed by ambition and spurred to action by  उसके   बीवी  , Macbeth murders King Duncan and takes the throne for himself .
His reign is racked with guilt and paranoia , and he soon becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is forced to commit more and more murders to protect himself from enmity and suspicion .
The bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth and Lady Macbeth into realms of arrogance , madness , and death .
Shakespeare 's source for the tragedy is the account of King Macbeth of Scotland  ,  Macduff , and Duncan in  holinshed  's Chronicles (  1587   )  , a history of England , Scotland and Ireland familiar to Shakespeare and his contemporaries , although the events in the play differ extensively from the history of the real  मैकबेथ  .
in  the backstage world of theatre , some believe that the  खेल  is  शापित  , and will not mention  इसके  title aloud , referring to it  बजाय  as `` the  स्कॉटिश  play `` .
Over the course of many  सदियां  ,  the  play has  आकर्षित  some of the most renowned actors to the roles of  मैकबेथ  and Lady Macbeth .
It  रै  been  adapted  to film , television , opera ,  novels  , comic books , and other media .
The Milton Hershey School is a private philanthropic ( pre-K  through  12 ) boarding school in Hershey  ,  Pennsylvania .
Originally named the Hershey Industrial School , the institution was founded  और   वित्तपोषित  by chocolate industrialist Milton Snavely Hershey and his wife , Catherine Sweeney Hershey .
The school  थी  originally established for impoverished , healthy , Caucasian , male orphans , while today it serves students of various backgrounds  .
The Milton  hershey  School Trust , which funds the  स्कूल  , owns  controlling  interest in The Hershey Company and owns the  hershey  Entertainment and Resorts  कम्पनी  ( HERCO  )  which oversees many of the area  होटल  along with a theme park called Hersheypark .
With over six billion dollars in assets ,  the  Milton Hershey School is one of the  wealthiest  schools in the world  .
The school is overseen by a Board of Managers .
The school currently serves 1,818 students , and plans to  grow  to 2,100 students by 2013 .
A member of CORE  :  Coalition for Residential  शिक्षा  , it is the largest residential education program in the US .
Epub may refer to:
EPUB , a free  और  open e-book  मानक
Electronic article , articles  in  scholarly journals or magazines that can  be  accessed via electronic  हस्तांतरण
The Controlled  substances  Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive  ड्रग   गाली  Prevention and  कंट्रोल  Act of 1970 .
The CSA is  the  federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture , importation , possession ,  उपयोग   और  distribution  of  certain substances is  regulated  .
The Act  भी  served as the national implementing legislation for the Single Convention on  narcotic  Drugs .
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ) , with varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each .
Two federal  एजेंसियों  , the  ड्रग  Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug  प्रशासन  ,  determine  which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute  passed  by Congress created the initial  लिस्टिंग   ,   और  Congress has  sometimes  scheduled other substances through legislation such  as  the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000 , which  लगाई  gamma  hydroxybutyrate  in  अनुसूची  I  .  Classification decisions are  जरूरी  to be made on  मापदण्ड  including potential  लिये  abuse ( an undefined term ) ,  फिलहाल   स्वीकृत  medical  उपयोग  in  उपचार  in the United States  ,  and  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  treaties .
Second-language acquisition or  second-language  learning is  the  process by which people learn a second language .
Second-language acquisition ( often abbreviated to SLA )  भी  refers to the scientific discipline devoted to studying that process .
Second language refers to  कोई  language learned in addition to a person 's first language ; although the concept is named second-language acquisition , it can also incorporate the learning  of  third , fourth ,  or   subsequent  languages  .
Second-language acquisition refers to what  learners  do ; it does not refer  to  practices in language  शिक्षण  .
The academic discipline of second-language acquisition is a subdiscipline of applied linguistics  .
It is broad-based and relatively new .
As well as the various branches  of  linguistics , second-language acquisition is also closely related to  मनोविज्ञान  , cognitive  मनोविज्ञान  , and education .
To separate the academic discipline from the learning process itself , the terms second-language acquisition research , second-language studies , and second-language acquisition studies are  भी  used .
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary field , and because of this it is difficult  to  identify a precise starting date .
However , it does appear to have developed a great deal since the mid-1960s  .
The term acquisition was originally used to emphasize the subconscious nature of  the  learning process , but in  हाल  years learning and acquisition  have  become largely synonymous .
Second-language acquisition can incorporate heritage language learning ,  लकिन  it does not usually incorporate bilingualism  .
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as being the end result of learning a language  ,  not the  प्रक्रम  itself , and see the  पद  as referring to  native-like   fluency  .
Writers in  फ़ील्ड  such as education and psychology , however , often use bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of multilingualism .
Second-language  अधिग्रहण  is also not to be contrasted with the  अधिग्रहण  of a foreign language ; rather , the learning of second languages and the learning of  विदेशी  languages involve the same fundamental processes in different situations..
There has been much debate about exactly how language is learned , and many issues are still unresolved .
There are many theories of second-language acquisition , but none are accepted  as  a complete explanation by all SLA researchers .
due  to  the  interdisciplinary nature of  the  field of second-language acquisition , this is not expected to happen in the foreseeable future .
फोर्ब्स  list of billionaires is an annual ranking of the world 's wealthiest people , compiled and published by Forbes , an American national  कारोबार  magazine .
The total net  लायक  of each  व्यक्तिगत  on the list  is  estimated , in  संयुक्त   राज्य  dollars , based on their assets and accounting for debt .
The list only represents each person 's valuation on a single day , due to daily fluctuations among exchange rates  और  stock valuations .
The United States Secret Service is a U.S. federal law enforcement agency that is part of the United States Department of  मातृभूमि  Security  .
The  sworn  members are divided among the Special Agents and the Uniformed Division .
Until  कूच  1 , 2003 , the Service was part of the United States Department of the Treasury .
The  u.S.  Secret Service  रै  two distinct areas of responsibility:
Financial Crimes , covering missions such as  रोकथाम  and investigation of counterfeiting  of   u.S.  currency and U.S.  राजकोष  securities ,  और  investigation of major fraud .
Protection , which entails ensuring the safety of current and former national leaders and their families , such as the President ,  पास्ट  presidents , vice presidents , presidential candidates , visiting heads of state , and foreign embassies ( per an  अनुबंध  with the U.S. State  विभाग  's  ब्यूरो  of Diplomatic Security ( DS  )  Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ) , etc . )
The Secret Service 's initial  जिम्मेदारी  was to  investigate  counterfeiting  of  U.S. currency ,  जिससे  was rampant  following  the U.S. Civil War  .
The agency then evolved into the United States ' first domestic intelligence and counterintelligence agency .
Many of the agency  's  missions  यहूद   बाद  taken over by subsequent agencies  ऐसे  as the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI )  ,  Bureau of Alcohol  ,  Tobacco  ,  Firearms and Explosives ( ATF  )  , Immigration and Customs Enforcement (  बर्फ  ) , and Internal Revenue Service ( IRS  )  .
`` Me and Bobby McGee '' is  a  song written  by  Kris  kristofferson  and Fred Foster , originally performed by Roger Miller .
Others performed the song later , including Kristofferson himself  ,   और   janis  Joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart with  the  song in 1971 after her death ,  बनाना  the song the second posthumous number-one single in U.S. chart history after  ``  ( Sittin '  on  ) The Dock of the Bay `` by Otis Redding .
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 –  अप्रैल   12  , 1945 ) ,  भी  known by his initials ,  fdr  , was the 32nd President of the United States  (  1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century , leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only  अमरीकी  president elected to more than  दो  terms , he built  a  New Deal Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932 ,  as  his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the  bouncy  popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme , FDR  पराजित  incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932  ,  at the depth of the Great Depression .
सक्रिय  by his personal victory over polio , FDR 's unfailing  आशावाद  and  सक्रियता  contributed to  a  renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with  अंग्रेजों  Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin  in  leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days  in  office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and  जारी  a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal  —a  variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery (  आर्थिक  growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , but  तब   relapsed  into a  गहन  recession .
The  bipartisan  Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his  पैकिंग   the   परम्  Court or passing any considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World  युद्ध   ii  .
Most of the regulations on business  यहूद   ended  about 1975–85 , except for the regulation of Wall Street  by  the Securities and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major  surviving  programs  शामिल  the  संघीय  Deposit Insurance Corporation , which was created in 1933 , and  सोशल  Security , which  कॉंग्रेस  passed  in  1935 .
As World  युद्ध  II loomed  बाद  1938 , with the Japanese invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic and  वित्तीय  support to China and Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral  .
His goal  थी  to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy ``  जिससे  would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional approval , provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries  लड़  against Nazi Germany with Britain .
साथ  very strong national support , he  बना  war on  जापानी  and Germany after  the  Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor  on  December 7 , 1941 ,  कॉलिंग  it a  ``  date which will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war effort .
As  an  active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war  रणनीति  on two fronts  कि  ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers  और  the development of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt  ordered  the internment of  100,000  Japanese  अमरीकी  civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended ,  और  the industrial economy  grew  rapidly to new heights  as   लाखो  of people moved  to  new jobs in  युद्ध  centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service  .
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the twelve years of his  प्रेसिडेंसी   ,  but also for decades afterward .
He  orchestrated  the realignment of voters that  निर्मित  the  पांचवां  Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions , big city machines , white ethnics , African  अमेरिकी  and rural white  southerners  .
He also influenced the later creation of the United Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top  तीन  U.S. Presidents , along  साथ  Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
a  liberal Democrat , Roosevelt defined his ideological position  as  `` a little left of center . ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly  abbreviated  as MS , Mara , and MS-13 ) is a transnational criminal gang that originated in Los Angeles and has spread to other parts of the  संयुक्त  States , Canada , Mexico , and Central America  .
The majority of the gang  is   ethnically  composed of Central  अमेरिकी   और  active  in  urban and suburban areas .
In  the  U.S. , the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in Los Angeles County and the San Francisco Bay Area in Northern California ; the Washington , D.C. metropolitan areas of Fairfax County , Virginia  ,  Montgomery County , Maryland , and Prince George 's  काउंटी  , Maryland ; Long Island , New York ; the Boston , Massachusetts area ; Charlotte , North Carolina ; and Houston , Texas .
There is also a presence of MS-13 in Toronto , Ontario , Canada .
Members of MS distinguish themselves by tattoos covering the body and also often the face , as well as the use of their own sign language .
They are notorious for their use of violence  और  a subcultural moral code  कि  predominantly consists of merciless revenge and cruel retributions .
This cruelty of the distinguished  सदस्यों  of the  ``  Maras '' or `` Mareros ''  अर्जित  them a path to be recruited by the Sinaloa Cartel battling against Los  zetas   in  an ongoing drug war south of the United States border .
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn the attention of the FBI and  आव्रजन   और  Customs  प्रवर्तन  , who have initiated wide-scale raids against known and suspected gang members – netting hundreds of arrests across the country .
Bones is an American crime comedy-drama television series that premiered on the Fox network  in   the  United States on September 13 , 2005 .
The show is based on forensic  मानवशास्त्र  and forensic archaeology , with each episode focusing on an FBI case file concerning the mystery  पीछे  human remains brought by FBI Special  एजेंट  Seeley Booth ( David  boreanaz  ) to the forensic anthropologist Dr. Temperance `` Bones '' Brennan (  एमिली  Deschanel ) .
The rest of the main cast includes Michaela Conlin , T. J. Thyne  ,  Eric Millegan , Tamara Taylor  ,  Jonathan Adams , and John Francis Daley .
Created by Hart Hanson , the  श्रेणी  is very loosely based on the life and writings of novelist and forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs , who also produces the show .
Its title character , Temperance Brennan , is named after the protagonist of Reichs ' crime novel series .
Conversely , Dr. Brennan writes successful  रहस्य  novels based around a  fictional  ( in the Bones universe ) forensic anthropologist named Kathy Reichs .
Bones is a  संयुक्त  production by Josephson Entertainment , Far Field Productions and 20th Century Fox Television .
The series has completed airing  इसके  eighth season and has been renewed for  a  ninth season .
Super Bowl XXV  थी   an  American football game between the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Buffalo Bills and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion New York Giants to decide the National  फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL ) champion for the 1990 season .
The Giants defeated the Bills by the score of 20–19 , winning their second ever Super Bowl  .
It  is  the only  सुपर  Bowl decided  by   एक   पाइंट  .
The  खेल   थी   आयोजित  at Tampa Stadium in Tampa , Florida , on January 27 , 1991  ,  during the  ऊँचाई  of the Gulf  युद्ध  .
It was thus played under  much  patriotic  fervor  .
The proceedings included a rousing rendition of `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` by Whitney  ह्यूस्टन  during the pregame  ceremonies  .
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle offense were making their first Super Bowl appearance after finishing the regular season with a 13-3 record , and leading  the  league in total points scored with 428 .
in  advancing to their second Super  कटोरी  , the Giants also posted a 13-3 regular season record , but with a ball-control offense and a defense that allowed  a  league low 211 points .
the  game is best remembered for Bills placekicker  स्कॉट  Norwood 's last-second field goal attempt which went wide right of the uprights , leading to a Giants victory  ,  and starting a four-game losing streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills .
The Giants set a Super Bowl record holding possession  of  the ball for 40 minutes and  33  seconds .
New York also  overcame  a 12-3 second-quarter  deficit  ,  और  made a 75-yard touchdown drive that consumed a Super Bowl record 9:29 off the clock .
Giants running back Ottis Anderson , who carried the ball 21 times  लिये  102 yards and one  touchdown  ,  थी  named Super Bowl MVP .
He  थी  the first awardee to receive the newly named `` Pete Rozelle Trophy '' (  नामित  for the former commissioner ) .
Anderson also recorded one reception for seven yards .
Malcolm X ( ; May 19  ,  1925February 21 , 1965 ) , born Malcolm Little and  भी  known as  el-hajj  Malik El-Shabazz ( )  ,  was an African-American Muslim  मंत्री  and human rights activist .
To  उसके  admirers , he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks , a man who indicted white America in the  harshest  terms for its crimes against black Americans .
Detractors accused him of preaching racism , black supremacy , and violence .
He has been called one of the greatest and  सबसे  influential African  अमेरिकी   in  history .
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists , it was rumored—when he was young , and at least one of his  uncles  was lynched .
जब  he was 13 ,  उसके  mother was placed in a  दिमागी  hospital , and he was placed in a series of foster homes .
In  1946  , at age 20 , he  गई  to  थाना  for breaking and entering .
In prison , Malcolm X became a member of the  स्वदेश  of Islam ; after his parole  in  1952 , he  जल्दी  rose to become one  of  its leaders .
For a dozen years , Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group , but disillusionment with  स्वदेश  of Islam head Elijah Muhammad  led  him  to   छोड़  the Nation in March 1964 .
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East , he returned  to  the United  राज्य  ,  जहाँ  he founded Muslim Mosque , Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity .
in  February 1965 , less than  a  year after leaving the Nation of Islam , he was assassinated  by  three members of the group  .
Malcolm X 's  expressed  beliefs changed  substantially  over  समय   .
As  a  spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and white Americans  —in  contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration .
After breaking with  the  Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association  साथ  it , `` I did  अनेक  things as a [ Black ] Muslim that  i  'm sorry for now .
I was  a  zombie then ... pointed in a certain direction  और  told  to  march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim  ,  he disavowed racism and expressed  willingness  to work with civil rights leaders , he continued to  emphasize  Pan-Africanism , black self-determination , and self-defense .
The third season of 90210 , an American television series , premiered on Monday September 13 , 2010  .
The CW officially renewed the show for a third season on  फ़रवरी  16 , 2010 .
With the reveal of the  संजाल  fall 2010 schedule , they announced their decision to move  90210  to Monday  नाइट्स  at 8:00 pm , as a  lead-in   to  Gossip Girl .
It premiered on September 13 , 2010 and was met with generally positive reviews from critics .
The season  चयन  up at  the  end of  गर्मियाँ  and focuses on the students senior year of high school .
it  follows  adrianna  's rise to fame , a new relationship between  चांदी   और  Navid and a confused Teddy who decides to reveal  to  his family and friends he is gay .
It also deals with the  aftermath  of Naomi Clark 's assault .
Regular cast  सदस्यों  for the season  शामिल   shenae  Grimes , Tristan Wilds , AnnaLynne McCord , Ryan Eggold  ,  Jessica Stroup , Michael Steger , Jessica Lowndes , Matt Lanter  ,  Gillian Zinser , Trevor Donovan and Lori Loughlin .
Rebecca Sinclair continued her role as executive producer  लिये  the season .
The season premiered to 1.96 million viewers and a 0.9  दरजा  in the adults 18–49 demographic  .
Christmas-themed episode `` Holiday Madness '' , hit season  highs  in all  कुंजी  demos with 2.1 in The CW 's target demo of women 18–34  ,  a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1  in  adults 18–49 .
It was also the most watched episode in over a year with 2.2 million viewers tuning  in  .
The season finale aired on May 16 , 2011 .
The season averaged 1.75 million live viewers and a 0.9 adults 18–49 rating .
It was released on DVD in the  संयुक्त  States on August 30 , 2011 .
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21  अप्रैल  1926 )  is  the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states , known as  the  Commonwealth realms , and their territories and  dependencies  , and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She is Supreme Governor of  the  Church of England and , in some of her realms  ,  carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full  शीर्षक  .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , Pakistan  और  Ceylon .
From 1956 to 1992 ,  the  number of her realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became republics .
At present ,  in  addition to the first four aforementioned countries , Elizabeth is Queen  of   जमैका  , Barbados , the Bahamas  ,  Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint  लूसिया  , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda and Saint  किट्स  and Nevis .
उसके  reign of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch  ;  only Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years .
Elizabeth was born  in  London and  शिक्षित  privately at home .
Her  पिता  acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his brother Edward VIII , from which time she was the heir  presumptive  .
She began to undertake public duties during the Second World War , in  जिससे  she served  in  the Auxiliary Territorial Service .
In 1947 , she married Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh , with whom she has four children  :  Charles , Anne , Andrew , and Edward .
Her coronation service took  प्लेस  in 1953  और  was  the  first to be  televised  .
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings include a state visit to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope .
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms  ,  such as devolution in the United Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian constitution .
Times of personal significance have included the births  और  marriages of her children , the births of her grandchildren , the investiture of the Prince of Wales  ,   और  the celebration of milestones such as her Silver  ,  Golden  ,  and Diamond Jubilees  in  1977 , 2002 ,  और  2012 , respectively .
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern Ireland , the Falklands War  ,   युद्धों  with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan .
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death  of  her  पिता  at 56 , the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle  ,  Lord Mountbatten , the breakdown of  उसके  children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ) , the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law , Diana , Princess of Wales  ,  and the deaths of her mother and sister in  2002  .
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal family and republican sentiments  ,  but support for the monarchy and  उसके  personal popularity remain  ऊँची  .
The 2010 United  राज्य  Senate  चुनाव  in Florida took place on  नवम्बर  2 , 2010 along with other elections to the United States  सीनेट  in other states  as  well as all elections to the United States  हाउस  of Representatives and various state and local elections .
Republican Marco Rubio , former Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives , defeated  स्वतंत्र  Charlie Crist and Democrat Kendrick Meek  in  a three-way race .
One term Senator Mel Martinez was  निर्वाचित  in a very close race against Democrat Betty Castor in  2004  with  49  % of the vote .
मार्टिनेज  announced on December 2 , 2008  कि   he   होता   नहीं  seek re-election to the Senate , and would  इस्तीफा  prior to the end of his term .
In August 2009 , Governor Charlie Crist announced that he would appoint his  पूर्व   मुख्य  of Staff , George LeMieux , a Republican , to  the  Senate seat being vacated by  मार्टिनेज   .
Governor Crist publicly announced he was running for the seat in mid-2009 .
At the time he received many Republican endorsements , such as the  नेशनल  Republican Senatorial  कमेटी  , Martinez , and the 2008 Republican presidential nominee John McCain .
His support of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 hurt his popularity among conservatives ,  और  candidate  मार्को  Rubio surged .
in  April 2010 Crist announced he would drop out of  the  Republican primary and run as an independent .
The National Republican Senatorial Committee withdrew its endorsement of Crist and demanded a refund of its campaign  निधि  that it provided for  the  Crist campaign .
Congressman Kendrick Meek was the  पहला  Democrat to declare his intention to run .
Alexander Snitker was the first member of the Libertarian Party on the ballot for senator in Florida 's history .
Satellite view of Doha
Doha  (  , ' or ' , literally : `` the big tree '' ) is the capital  नगर  of  the  state of  क़तर  .
Located on the coast of the Persian Gulf ,
it had a population of 998,651 in  2008  , and is  भी  one of the municipalities of Qatar .
Doha  is  Qatar 's largest city , with over 60 % of the nation 's population residing in Doha or its surrounding  उपनगरों  , and is also the economic centre of the country .
Doha also serves as  the  seat of government of Qatar , which is  शासित  by Sheikh Hamad  बिन  Khalifa Al Thani .
Doha is home to the Education City ,  an  area devoted to research and education .
Doha was the site of the first ministerial-level meeting  of  the Doha Development Round of World Trade Organization  negotiations  .
The city of  दोहा  held  the  2006 Asian Games , which was the  largest   एशियाई  Games ever  आयोजित  .
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games  और  most of  the  games at the 2011 AFC Asian Cup .
Doha hosted the UNFCCC Climate  negotiations  ( COP 18 ) December 2012 and will  मेजबान  a large number of  the  venues  लिये  the 2022  फीफा  World Cup .
The World  पेट्रोलियम  Council held the 20th  संसार  Petroleum Conference in Doha in December 2011 .
Paranasal sinuses are a group of four paired air-filled spaces that surround the nasal cavity ( maxillary sinuses ) , above the eyes ( frontal sinuses ) , between the eyes (  ethmoid  sinuses ) , and behind the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ) .
the   साइनस  are  नामित   लिये  the facial  हड्डियों   in  which they are located .
Lean manufacturing , lean enterprise ,  or  lean production , often simply , `` Lean , '' is a production practice that considers the expenditure of resources for any  लक्ष्य  other than the creation of value for the end customer to be wasteful , and thus a  निशाना   लिये  elimination .
Working from the perspective of the customer who  consumes  a  उत्पाद  or service , `` value '' is  पारिभाषित  as any action  or  process that a customer would be willing  to  pay for .
Essentially ,  झुकना  is centered on preserving value with less work .
Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived  ज़्यादातर   इससे  the  टोयोटा  Production System ( TPS ) ( hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent ) and identified  as   ``  Lean  ''   तभी  in the 1990s .
TPS  is  renowned for its focus on reduction of the original Toyota seven wastes to improve overall customer value , but there are varying perspectives on how this is best achieved .
The steady growth of Toyota , from a small company to the world 's largest automaker , has focused  ध्यान  on how it has achieved this success .
iCarly logo
iCarly  is  an  अमरीकी  sitcom that airs on Nickelodeon , which premiered  on  September 8 , 2007 .
Nickelodeon promoted many episodes so far such as `` iDo '' , `` iHire  an  Idiot '' , ``  ipity  the Nevel '' , `` iDate Sam &  फ्रेडी  '' , etc . as specials , despite their being  नियमित  episodes .
Every episode title begins with  a   निम्नतर  case i which represents the internet , as in ``  icarly  '' .
The show was nominated for an Emmy award for Outstanding Children 's Program in 2009  .
The  श्रेणी  starring Miranda Cosgrove as Carly Shay , a 13-year-old who becomes an Internet star .
The series ended on November 23  ,  2012 with  the  one-hour special episode `` iGoodbye '' .
a  total of 7 seasons and 109 episodes were broadcast .
The largest audience of the series  थी  11.2 million viewers  ,  with the special episode `` iSaved Your Life '' premiered in January 2010 .
When Carly ( Miranda Cosgrove ) and her sassy best friend Sam (  jennette  McCurdy )  अधिनियम  funny at a school talent show  ऑडिशन  , tech-savvy  फ्रेडी  ( Nathan  kress  )  टेपों  it and posts  it   ऑनलाइन  without telling  उन्हें  .
After seeing the girls ' strong chemistry and banter , the online audience clamors  लिये  more and the iCarly webcast is born .
While grappling with typical issues of adolescence , Carly , Sam , and Freddie find out that they have also become online celebrities as their show –  जिससे  features talent contests , recipes , problem-solving , and random dancing – garners international accolades .
Carly lives in Seattle , Washington with her 26-year-old brother and guardian Spencer ( Jerry  trainor  ) and produces the show in  a  makeshift third-floor studio loft in their apartment .
Their mother has  never  been seen or mentioned , but their father , Steven Shay ( David Chisum ) , is a U.S.  एयर  Force officer temporarily  stationed  on a submarine , and is often mentioned  लकिन  is only seen in person during  the   श्रेणी  finale episode  ,  `` iGoodbye '' .
westlife  were an Irish boy band which formed  in  1998 and disbanded in 2012 .
Originally signed by Simon Cowell and managed by Louis Walsh , the group 's final line-up consisted  of  Nicky Byrne , Kian  egan  , Mark Feehily and Shane Filan .
ब्रायन  McFadden was a member from 1998  जबतक  his departure in  2004  .
Westlife sold over 50 million records worldwide , a total that included studio albums , singles , video releases , and compilation albums .
The group  संचित  14 number-one singles in the  संयुक्त  Kingdom ( the third-highest in  uk  history ) ,  tying  with Cliff Richard and ranking just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley  .
They achieved a total of 26 top ten singles  over  their 14-year career .
By 2010 , Westlife was listed  in   the   गिनीज  World Records , as the UK 's top-selling album  समूह  of  the  21st century .
They also won The Record  of  the Year  (  the only music award based on public votes in the UK ) a record-breaking four times and in 2012 ,  the   आधिकारिक  Charts Company listed Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling  singles  artists in British music history  .
Despite their European and Asian success , Westlife never  प्रबंधित   to  break into the U.S. market , achieving only one hit single in 2000 : `` Swear It Again `` .
In October 2011 ,  westlife  announced their intention to split in 2012  ,  following their  महानतम  Hits Tour and the release of their Greatest Hits album .
The boyband 's final concerts were held on 22 and 23 June 2012 at Croke Park Stadium in Dublin .
The first  विदाई   कॉन्सर्ट  , offering 85,000 tickets , sold out in a record-breaking 5 minutes and the latter screened live in cinemas worldwide  .
Vitamin  a  is a group of  nutritionally  unsaturated hydrocarbons , which include retinol  ,  retinal , retinoic acid and several provitamin A carotenoids among which beta-carotene is the most important .
Vitamin A has multiple functions , it is important for growth and development , for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision .
विटामिन  A is needed by the retina of the eye  in  the form of retinal , which combines with protein opsin to form rhodopsin the light-absorbing molecule  ,  that is necessary for both low-light ( scotopic vision ) and color  दृष्टि  .
विटामिन   a  also functions  in  a very different  भूमिका  as an  irreversibly  oxidized form of retinol  ज्ञात  as retinoic acid , which is an important hormone-like growth factor for epithelial and other cells  .
In foods of animal origin , the major  रूप  of vitamin A is an ester , primarily retinyl palmitate , which is converted to retinol  (  chemically an alcohol ) in the small intestine .
The retinol form functions as a storage  रूप   of  the  विटामिन  , and can be converted to and from its visually active aldehyde  रूप  ,  retinal  .
The associated acid ( retinoic acid )  ,  a metabolite that can be irreversibly synthesized from vitamin A , has only partial vitamin A activity  ,  and does not function in the retina for the visual cycle .
Retinoic acid is used for growth and cellular differentiation .
All forms of vitamin A have a beta-ionone ring to which an isoprenoid chain is attached , called a  retinyl  group .
Both structural features are essential  लिये  vitamin activity .
The orange pigment of carrots – beta-carotene – can be represented as  दो  connected retinyl groups , which are used in the body to contribute  to  vitamin A levels .
Alpha-carotene and  gamma-carotene  also have a single retinyl group  ,  which give  उन्हें  some vitamin activity .
None of the other carotenes have  विटामिन  activity .
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone group and has vitamin  कार्यकलाप  in humans .
Vitamin A can be found in two principal forms in foods :
Retinol , the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food  स्त्रोत   ,   is  a yellow , fat-soluble substance .
Since the pure  दारू  form is unstable ,  the  vitamin is found in tissues in  a  form of retinyl ester .
it  is also commercially produced and administered as esters such as retinyl acetate or palmitate .
The carotenes alpha-carotene , beta-carotene , gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of which contain beta-ionone  बजती  ) , but no other carotenoids , function as provitamin A in herbivores  और   सर्वाहारी  animals , which possess the enzyme ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) which cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa and converts it retinol .
In general , carnivores are  ग़रीब  converters of ionine-containing carotenoids , and pure  carnivores  such as cats and ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase and can not convert any carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids being  फ़ॉर्म  of vitamin A for  ये  species ) .
Selena Marie Gomez  (  born July 22 , 1992 ) is an  अमरीकी  singer and actress .
She made her debut as a child actress in Barney & Friends .
In 2007 , Gomez came to prominence as a starring cast member in the television  श्रेणी  Wizards  of  Waverly Place .
She signed to Hollywood Records the following year , and became the founder and lead singer of the pop band Selena Gomez & the Scene .
Their studio albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ) , A Year Without Rain ( 2010  )  , and When  the  Sun Goes  bas  ( 2011 ) were certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of  अमेरिका  ( RIAA )  और  have spawned  platinum-certified  singles `` Naturally ``  ,  `` Who Says  ``   ,  and `` Love You like a Love  सोंग   ``  .
After the release of television films and their accompanying soundtracks ,  गोमेज़  made her theatrical film debut in Ramona and Beezus in 2010 and starred  in  Monte Carlo in 2011 .
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly Place and the  अंतराल  of Selena Gomez & the Scene  in  2012 , she focused on her film career , serving  as  a voice actress  in  Hotel Transylvania and starring  in   वसन्त  Breakers the following year .
Her  डेब्यू  solo album is tentatively scheduled  to  be released in summer 2013 , and  is  preceded  by  its lead single `` Come  &  Get It `` .
Outside of her work in the entertainment industry , Gomez is involved in  परोपकारी  activities through  दान  work and various  सोशल  and environmental causes .
Tracie Monique  स्पेंसर   (  born July 12 , 1976 ) is an American R & B and pop singer-songwriter  ,  actress , and model .
Sacramento is the capital city of  the  U.S. state of California and the seat of government of Sacramento County .
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River  और  the  अमरीकी  River in the northern portion of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया   's  expansive Central Valley  .
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891 ,  it  is the sixth-largest city in California and the 35th largest city in the United States .
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic  बीच  of the Sacramento metropolitan  क्षेत्रफल  which includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area  is  the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los Angeles Area , San  फ्रांसिस्को  Bay Area , and the San Diego metropolitan area , as well as the 25th largest in the United  राज्य  .
Sacramento was cited  by  Time  पत्रिका  as  अमेरिका  's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002 .
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of  the  Swiss immigrant John Sutter ,  sr.   ,  his son John Sutter , Jr. , and James W. Marshall .
Sacramento grew quickly  धन्यवाद   to  the protection of Sutter  's  Fort , which  थी  established by Sutter  in  1839 .
During the California Gold Rush , Sacramento was a major distribution point , a commercial and agricultural center , and  a  terminus  लिये  wagon trains , stagecoaches , riverboats , the telegraph  ,  the Pony Express , and the  पहला  Transcontinental Railroad  .
California State University  ,  Sacramento , more commonly known as Sacramento State or Sac State , is the largest local university .
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California State University system .
Drexel University Sacramento is located in Downtown , Sacramento .
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge School of Law is located  in  the Oak Park neighborhood .
In addition , the University of California , Davis is located in nearby Davis , west of the capital .
The UC  डेविस  Medical Center , a world-renowned research hospital  ,  is located in the city of Sacramento .
Memorial Day is a United States federal holiday which occurs every  साल  on the final Monday of May .
Memorial  दिन  is a  दिन  of remembering the men and women who died while serving in the United States Armed Forces .
Formerly known as Decoration  दिन  , it originated after  the  American Civil  युद्ध  to commemorate the  संघ  and Confederate soldiers who died  in  the Civil War .
By the 20th century Memorial Day had been extended to honor all Americans  जो  have died in all  युद्धों  .
It typically marks the start  of  the summer vacation season  ,  while Labor Day marks its end .
Many people visit cemeteries and memorials , particularly to honor those who have died in military service .
Many volunteers place an American flag on each grave in national cemeteries .
By the early 20th century , Memorial Day was an  अवसर  for more general expressions of memory , as people visited the  क़ब्रों  of their deceased relatives in church  कब्रिस्तान   ,  whether they had served in the military or not .
it  also became a long weekend increasingly devoted to shopping , family gatherings , fireworks , trips to  the  beach ,  और  national media  कार्यक्रम  .
Annual Decoration Days for particular cemeteries are held on a Sunday in late spring or early summer in some rural areas of the American South , notably in the mountains .
In cases involving a  परिवार  graveyard where remote ancestors as well as those who were deceased more recently are buried , this may take  on  the character of an extended family  पुनर्मिलन  to which some people  सफर  hundreds of miles .
People gather on the designated day and put flowers on graves and  नवीनीकृत  contacts with kinfolk and others .
There often is a religious service and a `` dinner on the ground , '' the  परंपरागत  term for a potluck meal in which people used to spread the dishes out on sheets or tablecloths on the grass .
it  is believed that this practice began  पहले  the American Civil War and thus may reflect the real origin of the `` memorial  दिन  '' idea .
Memorial Day is not to be confused with Veterans Day ; Memorial Day is a day of remembering  the   मेन   और  women who died while  सेवारत  , while Veterans Day celebrates the  सेवा  of all  u.S.  military veterans ,  जीना   or  dead .
Mt . Zion Church state history  मार्कर  near Philadelphia , Mississippi .
Freedom Summer  (  also known  as  the Mississippi Summer Project ) was  a  campaign in the United States launched in  जून  1964 to attempt to register as many African American voters as  संभावित  in Mississippi , which had  historically  excluded most  अश्वेतों  from voting .
The project also set up dozens of Freedom Schools , Freedom Houses , and community centers in small towns  throughout  Mississippi to aid the local black population .
The project was  व्यवस्थित   by  the Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ) , a coalition of the  मिसिसिपी  branches of the four major civil rights organizations ( SNCC , CORE , NAACP and SCLC ) .
Most of the impetus , leadership , and  financing  for the Summer Project came from the SNCC .
Robert Parris Moses , SNCC field secretary and co-director of COFO , directed the summer project .
Blues is the name given to both a musical form and a music genre that originated in communities of primarily the `` Deep South  ``  of the United States around the end of the 19th century from spirituals , work songs , field hollers , shouts and chants , and rhymed simple  कथा  ballads .
The blues form , ubiquitous  in  jazz , rhythm and blues  ,  and rock and roll is  characterized   by  specific chord progressions ,  of  which the twelve-bar blues chord progression is the most common .
the  blue notes that , for expressive purposes are  सुंग   or  played flattened or gradually bent ( minor 3rd to major 3rd ) in relation to the pitch of the major scale , are also an important part of the sound .
The blues genre is based on the blues form but possesses  अन्य  characteristics such  as  specific lyrics ,  बास  lines , and instruments .
Blues can be subdivided into several  subgenres  ranging from country to urban blues that  यहूद   अधिक  or less popular  दौरान  different periods of the 20th century .
Best known are the Delta ,  piedmont  , Jump , and Chicago blues styles .
World  युद्ध  II marked the transition from acoustic to electric  ब्लूज़  and the progressive opening of blues music to a wider audience , especially white listeners .
In the 1960s and  1970s  , a hybrid form called blues-rock evolved .
The term `` the  ब्लूज़  '' refers to the `` blue  शैतानों  '' , meaning melancholy  और  sadness ; an early use of the term in this sense is found in George Colman 's one-act farce Blue Devils ( 1798 )  .
Though the use of  the  phrase in African-American music may be older , it has been attested  to  since 1912 , when Hart Wand 's `` Dallas Blues `` became the first  स्वत्वाधिकार  blues composition .
In lyrics the  phrase  is often used to describe a depressed mood .
A quarter dollar , commonly shortened to quarter , is a coin worth 1⁄4 of a United States dollar or 25 cents .
The quarter  रै  been produced since 1796 .
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination , as  opposed  to 20¢ which is more common in other parts of the world , originated with the practice of dividing Spanish Milled Dollars into eight wedge shaped segments ( cf. `` pieces of eight `` ) .
At  एक  time `` two bits `` , i.e . two wedges , each wedge an  आठवीं  , thus a quarter of the Spanish real , was a common nickname for a quarter  .
Day of the Dead ( ) is a Mexican holiday  मनाये  throughout  मैक्सिको  and around the world in other cultures .
The holiday focuses on gatherings of family and  मित्रों  to pray for and  याद  friends and family members who  have   died  .
It is  विशेषकर  celebrated in  मैक्सिको  , where it  is  a national holiday ,  और  all banks are closed .
The celebration takes  प्लेस  on November 1 and 2  ,  in connection with the Catholic holidays of All Saints ' Day and All Souls ' Day .
Traditions connected with  the  holiday include  भवन  private altars honoring the  मृतक  using sugar skulls , marigolds , and the favorite foods and beverages of the departed and visiting graves with these as gifts .
They also leave possessions of the  मृतक  .
Scholars trace the origins of the modern Mexican holiday to indigenous observances dating back hundreds of years and to an Aztec festival dedicated to the goddess Mictecacihuatl .
the  holiday has spread throughout the world :  in  Brazil , Dia de Finados is a  पब्लिक  holiday that  अनेक   brazilians  celebrate by visiting cemeteries and churches .
In Spain , there are festivals and parades , and , at the end of the day , people gather at cemeteries and pray for their dead loved ones .
Similar  observances  occur elsewhere in Europe , and similarly themed celebrations appear in many Asian and African cultures .
ANITA Mk  viii  .
the  ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark VIII calculators were launched simultaneously in late  1961  as the  संसार  's first all- electronic desktop calculators  .
Designed and built by the Bell Punch Co .
in Britain , and marketed through  इसके  Sumlock Comptometer division ,  वे  used vacuum tubes and cold-cathode switching tubes in their logic circuits and nixie tubes for their numerical displays .
They were the first of a  श्रेणी  of desktop and hand-held electronic calculators that the company was to develop  और  sell under the ANITA name into the  mid-1970s  .
George Washington ( – ,  1799  ) was the first President of the United States ( 1789–1797  )  ,  the  commander-in-chief  of  the Continental  फौज  during the  अमरीकी   क्रांतिकारी  War , and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States .
He presided over the convention  कि  drafted the Constitution ,  जिससे  replaced the  आलेख  of Confederation and established the  स्थिति  of President .
Washington  थी  elected President as the unanimous choice of the 69 electors in 1788 ,  और  he served two terms in office .
He oversaw the creation of a strong ,  well-financed  national government that maintained neutrality in the wars raging in Europe , suppressed rebellion ,  और  won acceptance among Americans of all types .
His  नेतृत्व  style established many forms and rituals of  सरकारी  that  have  been used since , such  as   using  a cabinet system and  delivering  an inaugural address .
Further , the peaceful transition from his presidency to the presidency of John Adams established a tradition that continues into the 21st  सदी  .
Washington was hailed as `` father of  उसके  country `` even during his lifetime .
Washington was born into the provincial gentry of Colonial Virginia ; his wealthy planter family owned tobacco plantations and slaves  .
After both his father and older brother died when he was young , Washington became personally and professionally attached to the powerful William Fairfax , who promoted his career as a surveyor and soldier .
Washington quickly became a senior officer in the  औपनिवेशिक  forces during the first stages of the French and Indian War .
Chosen by the  दूसरी  Continental Congress in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the Continental Army in the American Revolution , Washington managed to force the British  आउट  of Boston in  1776  , but was defeated and  लगभग  captured later that year when he lost New York City .
After crossing the Delaware River in the  मुर्दे  of winter , he defeated the British  in   दो   लड़ाइयों  , retook New Jersey and restored  आवेग   to  the Patriot cause .
Because of his strategy  ,  Revolutionary forces  captured  two major British armies at Saratoga in 1777 and Yorktown  in  1781 .
इतिहासकारों  laud Washington for  उसके   चयन  and supervision of his generals , encouragement of  मनोबल  and ability to hold together the army ,  समन्वय  with the state governors and state militia units , relations with Congress and attention to supplies ,  लोजिस्टिक्स  , and training .
In battle ,  however  , Washington was repeatedly outmaneuvered by  अंग्रेजों  generals with larger armies .
बाद  victory had been finalized in 1783 , Washington resigned  as  Commander-in-chief rather than seize power , proving his opposition to dictatorship and his commitment to American republicanism  .
Dissatisfied with the weaknesses of the  आलेख  of Confederation , in 1787 Washington presided over the Constitutional Convention that drafted the  संयुक्त  States Constitution  .
Elected  unanimously  as  the  first President of the United States in 1789 , he attempted to bring rival factions together to unify the nation  .
He supported Alexander Hamilton 's programs to pay off  सब  state and national  कर्ज़  , to implement an  प्रभावी  tax system and  to  create a national bank ( despite opposition from Thomas Jefferson ) .
Washington proclaimed the United  राज्य  neutral in the wars raging in  यूरोपीय   बाद   1793  .
He avoided war with Great Britain and guaranteed a decade of  सलाम  and profitable trade by securing the Jay Treaty in  1795   ,  despite  तीव्र  opposition from the  jeffersonians  .
Although never officially joining the Federalist Party  ,  he supported its programs .
Washington 's Farewell Address was an influential primer  on  republican virtue and  a  warning against partisanship  ,   sectionalism  , and involvement in foreign wars .
He  रिटायर्ड  from the presidency in 1797 and returned to his home , Mount Vernon ,  और  his domestic life where he managed  a  variety of enterprises .
He freed all his slaves by his final will .
Washington had a  दृष्टि  of a great and powerful nation that would be  निर्मित  on republican lines using federal power .
He sought to use the  नेशनल  government to preserve liberty , improve infrastructure , open  the  western  lands  , promote commerce , found a permanent capital , reduce regional tensions and promote a spirit of American nationalism .
at   उसके  death , Washington was eulogized as `` first in war , first in peace , and first in the hearts of his countrymen '' by Henry Lee .
the  Federalists made him  the  symbol of their party but for many years , the Jeffersonians continued to distrust his influence and delayed building the Washington Monument .
As the leader of the first successful revolution against  a  colonial empire in world  इतिहास  , Washington became an international icon for liberation and nationalism  ,  especially in France and Latin America .
Fiscal Year 2012 U.S. Federal Spending  –  Cash or Budget Basis .
Fiscal Year 2012 U.S. Federal Receipts .
The Budget of the United States Government often begins as the President 's proposal to the U.S.  कॉंग्रेस  which recommends funding levels for the next fiscal year , beginning October 1 .
However , Congress is the body required by law to pass a budget annually and  to  submit the budget passed by both houses to the President for signature .
Congressional decisions are governed by rules and legislation regarding the federal budget process .
Budget committees set spending limits for the  हाउस  and Senate committees and for Appropriations subcommittees , which then approve individual appropriations bills to allocate funding  to   विभिन्न  federal  कार्यक्रम  .
If Congress  fails  to  pass  an annual budget ( as has been the case since 2009 ) , a series of Appropriations bills must be passed as `` stop gap  ''  measures .
After Congress approves an appropriations bill  ,  it is sent to the President , who may sign  it  into law , or may veto  it  ( as he would a budget when passed  by  the Congress ) .
a  vetoed bill is sent  वापस   to  Congress , which can pass it into law with a two-thirds majority in each chamber .
Congress may also combine all or some appropriations bills into an omnibus reconciliation bill .
In  जोड  , the president may request and the  कॉंग्रेस  may pass supplemental appropriations bills or emergency supplemental appropriations bills .
Several government agencies  provide  budget data and analysis .
These include the Government Accountability  दफ्तर  (  gao  ) , Congressional Budget Office , the Office of Management and Budget ( OMB ) and the U.S. Treasury Department .
These agencies have reported that the federal government is facing a series of  महत्वपूर्ण  financing challenges .
In the short-run , tax revenues have declined significantly due to a severe recession and tax policy choices , while  expenditures  have expanded for wars , unemployment insurance and other safety net spending .
In  the  long-run , expenditures related to healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid are projected to grow faster than the economy overall as the population matures .
New Guinea ( also , Tok Pisin : Niugini , Dutch : Nieuw Guinea , and ; historically : Papua )  is  the world 's second largest island , after Greenland , covering a land area of 786,000 km2 .
Located in the southwest Pacific Ocean , it lies geographically to  the  east of the Malay Archipelago ,  साथ  which it is sometimes included  as  part of a  वृहद  Indo-Australian Archipelago .
Geologically it is a part of the same tectonic  थाली  as Australia .
When world sea levels were  कम  , the  दो  shared shorelines  (  which now  झूठ   100  to 140 metres below sea level ) , combining with lands now inundated into the tectonic continent of  sahul  , also known as Greater Australia .
The two landmasses became  अलग  when the area now known as the Torres Strait flooded after the end of the last glacial period .
Anthropologically , New Guinea is considered part  of  Melanesia .
Politically , the western half of the island comprises two Indonesian provinces : Papua and West Papua .
The  पूर्वी  half forms the mainland of the  देश  of Papua New Guinea .
The island has a  जनसांख्यिकी  of about 7.5 million , with a very low population density of  तभी  8 inh/km2 .
New Guinea is differentiated from its drier , flatter , and less fertile southern counterpart , Australia ,  by  its much  उच्चतर  rainfall and its active volcanic geology , with its highest point , Puncak Jaya ,  reaching  an elevation of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ) .
Yet the two  जमीन  masses share a similar animal fauna , with marsupials ,  सहित  wallabies and possums , and the egg-laying monotreme , the spiny anteater ,  or   एकिडना  .
Other than bats and some two dozen indigenous  कृंतक  genera , there are no  pre-human   स्वदेशी  placental  स्तनधारियों  .
Pigs , several additional species  of  rats , and the ancestor of the New Guinea Singing Dog were introduced with  इंसान   colonization  .
The human presence on the island dates back at  तनिक  40,000 years to the oldest human migrations out of Africa .
Research indicates that the  हाइलैंड्स   यहूद  an early and independent center of agriculture , with evidence of irrigation going back at least  10,000   सालो  .
Because of the time depth of its  inhabitation  and its highly fractured landscape  ,  an unusually high number of languages are spoken on the island , with some 1,000 languages ( a figure higher  than  that of  सबसे  continents ) having  महरूम  catalogued out of an estimated world-wide  pre-columbian  total of  6,000  human dialects .
Most are classified as Papuan languages , a generally accepted  भौगोलिक   पद   जिससे  a minority of authors  थाम  to be a genetic one .
A number of  ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई   भाषाएं  are spoken on the coast  और  on offshore islands .
In the  16th  century Spanish  explorers  discovered the island and called  it  Nueva Guinea .
In recent history western New Guinea was included in the Dutch East Indies colony .
The Germans annexed the northern coast of  the  eastern half of the island as German New Guinea in their pre–World War I effort to establish themselves as a colonial  शक्ति  , whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly  claimed  by Britain .
Following the  सन्धि  of  versailles  , the German  portion  was awarded to Australia ( which was already governing the British claim , named the  territory  of Papua ) as a League of Nations mandate .
The eastern half of the island was granted independence from Australia as Papua New Guinea in 1975 .
the  western half gained independence from the Dutch in 1961 , but became part of Indonesia soon  afterwards  in controversial circumstances .
`` The Van Buren Boys ''  is   the  148th episode of the sitcom Seinfeld  ,  and name of a fictional New York  गली  gang .
Their sign is crossing  the  hands , with  एक  hand with all the fingers 'up ' and spread  आउट  .
The other hand has all but the thumb and pointer finger up , for a total of eight ( 8 ) .
The gang  is   नामित  for  the  8th President of the United States , Martin Van  buren  ( who was  the  first president  इससे  New York  )  .
This was the 14th episode for the 8th  ऋतु  .
It aired on February 6 , 1997 .
Bevo sign
Bevo was a non-alcoholic malt beverage , or  निकट   बियर  , brewed in the United States  by  the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century .
Bevo enjoyed its greatest success  दौरान  the time of prohibition ,  जब  beer , wine and distilled liquors , were made illegal for thirteen years .
The Anheuser-Busch company started brewing Bevo when alcoholic beverages were prohibited in 1916 by the United States armed forces .
Production rose greatly with  नेशनल  prohibition in 1919 , and Bevo was  by  far the most popular  of  the many ``  खाद्यान्न  beverages '' or `` near beers '' of the time .
at  the  शिखर  of its popularity in the early 1920s , more than five million cases of Bevo were sold annually  .
Renard with a mug  of  Bevo , depicted in terra cotta on the  आंतरिक  walls of the Bevo building , St. Louis
लेबल्स  on the bottles billed it as `` Bevo the Beverage '' .
The name `` Bevo '' was coined from the word `` beverage ''  और  the Slavic language word for beer `` pivo ''  ,  and was  सुनाया  ``  bee-vo  '' .
Some Bevo advertising featured the character `` Renard  the  Fox `` ( based on the protagonist of a medieval French  folk-tale  ) ,  और  promotional mugs with  इस  character were manufactured .
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a  श्रेणी  of boat-bodied cars in its  st.  Louis shops called the `` Bevo Boats '' which were used for promotion  .
Seven are believed to have been  निर्मित  on Pierce-Arrow 8-cylinder chassis while one surviving example  थी  based upon 1930 Cadillac 353 V8 .
बिलबोर्ड  advertising Bevo in Trenton , New Jersey , 1917
A contemporary advertisement read `` Cooling and invigorating , Bevo the  पेय  .
Order by the  मामला  from your grocer , druggist , or dealer  .  ''
The paper label  on  the back of the bottle read ``  the  All-Year-Round Soft  पेय   .
Appetizing - Healthful - Nutritious - Refreshing .
Milk or water may contain bacteria .
bevo  never  करता   .  ''
Bevo became part  of  the  लोकप्रिय  culture of the time  ,  and is mentioned in various popular songs and Vaudeville skits of the era .
This led to secondary slang uses of the word ; for  उदाहरण   ,  in American military slang a young and inexperienced officer was called a  ``  Bevo '' .
The University  of  Texas named its mascot `` Bevo ''  ,  a name which  रै  stuck to this day .
Irving Berlin included  a  paean to the drink , ``  तुम  Ca n't Stay  up  on Bevo '' , in his 1917  फौज   revue  , Yip Yip  yaphank  .
In the late 1920s smuggled bootleg beer  और  liquor as well as `` homebrew `` , cut into Bevo  's  marketshare .
With sales flattening to 100,000 cases  by  1929 , Anheuser-Busch  रोका  production  .
The Bevo Mill ,  st.  Louis  ,  in 2008
The Bevo  भवन  , with the Renard character prominently displayed at the corners , still operates  as  a bottling  सुविधा  at their main  ब्रेवरी  in St. Louis , Missouri .
The landmark  bevo  Mill , constructed by August Anheuser Busch , Sr.  in  1917 .
It was closed in 2009  ,   लकिन  it reopened in  अक्तूबर  2009 under new owners .
Bevo is also mentioned in the  छोटी   स्टोरी  `` The Killers `` by  अर्नेस्ट  Hemingway  ;  as well as in Babbitt  by  Sinclair Lewis .
Mylanta is  an   over  the counter medication used for the treatment of acid reflux , heartburn ,  और  gastroesophageal reflux disease  (  also known as GERD ) .
Foremilk and Hindmilk samples of human breast  मिल्क
A  कांच   of  pasteurized  गाय  milk
Milk is a white liquid produced by  the  mammary glands of mammals .
It is the  प्राथमिक  source of nutrition  लिये  young mammals before they are able to digest other types of food .
Early-  lactation  milk contains colostrum , which carries  the  mother 's antibodies to the baby and can reduce the risk  of  many diseases in  the  baby .
It also contains many other nutrients .
As  an  agricultural product ,  मिल्क  is extracted from  स्तनधारियों  and  प्रयुक्त  as food for humans .
Worldwide , dairy farms  उत्पादित   परिचय  730 million tonnes of milk in  2011  .
India is the world 's largest producer and consumer  of  milk , yet neither  निर्यात   nor  imports milk .
New  जीलैंड  , the European Union 's 27  सदस्य  states , Australia , and the  संयुक्त  States are the world 's largest exporters of milk  और  milk products .
China and Russia are the world 's largest importers of milk and milk products .
Throughout the world , there are more than 6 billion consumers of milk and milk products  .
Over 750 million people  सजीव  within dairy farming households .
Milk is a key contributor to improving nutrition and food security particularly in developing countries .
Improvements in livestock and dairy technology offer  significant  promise in reducing poverty and malnutrition in the  संसार  .
Motorcycle  स्पीडवे   ,  usually referred to as speedway , is a motorcycle sport  involving  four  और  sometimes up to  छह  riders competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an  ओवल  circuit .
Speedway motorcycles use  तभी  one gear and have no brakes and racing  takes  place on  a  flat oval track usually  consisting  of dirt  or   loosely   packed   shale  .
Competitors use this surface to slide their  मशीने   बगलों  , powersliding or broadsiding  into  the bends  .
On the straight sections of the track the motorcycles reach speeds of up .
The  सटीक  origins of the sport  हैं  unknown but  वहीँ  is evidence of a type of speedway racing  होने  practised  in  the USA before  the  First World War and in Australia in the late 1910s and  जल्दी  1920s .
There are now both domestic and international  प्रतियोगिताओं  in a number of countries including the Speedway World Cup whilst the highest overall scoring individual in the Speedway Grand Prix events is pronounced the world champion .
स्पीडवे  is popular  in  central and northern Europe and to a lesser extent in Australia and  उत्तर  America .
A variant of track racing , speedway is administered internationally by the Fédération  internationale  de Motocyclisme ( FIM  )  .
Domestic speedway events are regulated by FIM affiliated national motor  खेल  federations  .
Vitamin D is a  समूह  of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible for intestinal absorption  of  calcium and phosphate .
In humans , the most  महत्वपूर्ण  related compounds of  विटामिन  D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3 .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin  d2  ) are unique as they constitute what we know as vitamin  d  and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements .
The body can also  synthesize   विटामिन  D ( from cholesterol )  जब  sun exposure is adequate ( hence its nickname , the `` sunshine vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly called a  विटामिन  , it is not  दरअसल   an  essential  dietary  vitamin in the  सख्त  sense , as  it   can  be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed  to   धूप   .
( Cats and dogs can  नहीं  synthesize vitamin D efficiently and must receive it in their diet . )
An organic  रासायनिक  compound ( or related set  of  compounds ) is only scientifically called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized  in  sufficient quantities by an  सजीव  , and must be obtained from their diet .
However , as with other compounds commonly called vitamins , vitamin D  थी  discovered in an effort to find the  dietary  substance that was lacking in a  बीमारी  , namely , rickets , the childhood form of  osteomalacia   .
Additionally , like  अन्य  compounds called vitamins , in the developed world vitamin D is added to staple foods , such as milk , to avoid disease  due   to  deficiency .
Measures of  सीरम  levels reflect endogenous synthesis  इससे  exposure to sunlight as well as intake  इससे   the  diet , and it is believed  कि  synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The evidence indicates  कि  the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that  रोकता  toxicity  लकिन  , because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from sunlight , no recommendations are issued by the  संस्थान  of Medicine  ,  USA , for the amount  of   सूर्य  exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements  .
तदनुसार  , the Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D assume that no synthesis occurs and that all  of  a person  's  vitamin D is from their  आहार   ,  although that will  rarely   occur  in practice .
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol , which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated  25  ( OH ) D ; and which  is  the specific vitamin  d  metabolite that is measured in serum to  determine  a person 's vitamin D status .
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol , the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in  the  blood , regulating the concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and  promoting  the healthy growth and remodeling of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted  to  calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes , such as the proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol  भी  affects neuromuscular function and inflammation  .
Beyond its use to  prevent   osteomalacia   or  rickets  ,  the evidence for other  स्वास्थ्य  effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent .
The best evidence of benefit is for bone health and a decrease in mortality in elderly women .
The Duramax is a General Motors diesel engine family  लिये  light- and medium  ड्यूटी  trucks , designed by Isuzu .
The 6.6-liter Duramax is produced by DMAX  ,  a joint venture between GM and  isuzu  in Moraine , Ohio .
This engine was initially installed in 2001 model year Chevy and GMC trucks and has been an option since  तब  in pickups , vans , and medium-duty trucks .
In 2006 ,  उत्पादन  at Moraine was reportedly limited to  लगभग  200,000 engines per  साल  .
On May 9 , 2007  ,   dmax  announced the production of the 1,000,000th Duramax V-8 diesel at its Moraine facility .
Duramax LML
Balto .
is also a traditional written abbreviation for Baltimore ,  मेरीलैंड  .
Statue of Balto in Central Park (  नई  York City )
Balto ( 1919 – March 14 , 1933 ) was a Siberian Husky sled dog who led his  टोली  on the final leg of the 1925 serum run to Nome , in  जिससे  diphtheria antitoxin was transported  इससे  Anchorage , Alaska , to Nenana  ,  Alaska , by train and then to Nome by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the disease .
The run is commemorated by the annual Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race .
Balto was named after the Sami explorer Samuel Balto .
Balto  died  at the age of 14  .
Professor Stephen Hawking , known for being a theoretical physicist ,  रै  appeared in many works of popular culture .
The Nissan  उच्चिष्ट  is  a  mid-size  /  entry-level luxury car manufactured by Nissan , marketed as the `` four-door sports car '' .
The origins of the Maxima  began  in July 1976 as the Datsun 810 , an upscale six-cylinder version of the Bluebird , and was  spun  into its own line in 1981 , having been  बना  continuously since then .
The ``  उच्चिष्ट  '' name was applied gradually , beginning  in   1981  .
Most pre-2004 Maximas were built in Oppama ,  जापानी   ,  until the current North  अमरीकी  Maximas started being assembled in Smyrna , Tennessee .
The  ``  Maxima '' has  भी  been applied to Cefiros  और  Laurels in various  बाज़ार  .
Propolis  as  hive sealing
Propolis is a resinous mixture that honey bees collect from tree buds , sap flows , or other botanical sources .
It is used as a sealant for  अनावश्यक  open spaces in the hive  .
Propolis is used for small gaps ( approximately or less ) , while larger spaces are usually filled  साथ  beeswax .
Its color varies depending on its botanical source , the most common being  अंधेरा  brown .
Propolis is sticky at  और   ऊपर  room temperature , .
at   निम्नतर  temperatures , it becomes hard and very brittle .
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; March 26 , 1948 ) is  an  American singer ,  songwriter  ,  और  multi-instrumentalist , best known as  the   frontman  and lead singer of the Boston -based rock band Aerosmith , in which he also plays the harmonica , and occasional piano and percussion .
He is known as  the  `` Demon of  screamin  ' '' due to his  ऊँची  screams and his wide vocal range .
He is also known for his on-stage acrobatics .
During his high-energy performances , he  प्रायः  dresses  in  bright  ,  colorful outfits with his trademark  स्कार्फ  hanging from his microphone stand .
In the 1970s , Tyler rose to prominence as the frontman of Aerosmith , which released such milestone hard rock albums as Toys in the Attic and Rocks .
in  the late 1970s and early 1980s  ,   टायलर  had a heavy drug and alcohol  व्यसन  ,  और  the band 's popularity waned .
He completed drug rehabilitation in 1986  और  subsequently maintained sobriety for over 20 years , but had a relapse with prescription painkillers in the  लेट   2000s  ,  लिये  which he successfully received treatment in 2009 .
बाद  Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in  the  late 1980s and early 1990s with the albums Permanent Vacation , Pump , and Get a Grip , Tyler became a household name and has remained a  प्रासंगिक  rock icon .
As a result , he has since embarked on several solo endeavors including guest appearances on other artists ' music , film  और  TV roles ( including as a judge on American Idol ) ,  authoring  a bestselling book ,  और  solo work ( including a Top 40 hit single in  2011  ) .
However , he has continued to  रिकार्ड  music and perform with Aerosmith , after  अधिक  than 43 years  in  the band .
The band 's latest album , Music from Another Dimension !
, was released on  नवम्बर  6 , 2012 .
Tyler is included among Rolling Stones 100 Greatest Singers .
He was also ranked 3rd on Hit Parader 's Top 100 Metal Vocalists  of  All Time .
In 2001 he  थी  inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame with Aerosmith , and he was the  प्रस्तुतकर्ता  when AC/DC was inducted into  the  Hall of Fame in 2003 .
In 2013 , Tyler  और  his songwriting partner Joe Perry will  be  recipients of the ASCAP Founders Award and will also be  inducted  into the Songwriters Hall of Fame .
The liver produces urea in the urea cycle as a waste product of the digestion of protein .
Normal  इंसान  adult blood should contain between 7 to 21 mg of urea nitrogen per 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood .
Individual laboratories may have different reference  सीमाएँ  , and this is because  the  procedure may vary .
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2  ,  1940 ) is a former American football  कोच  and college and professional  फ़ुटबॉल  player who  थी  the head  कोच  of the NFL 's Detroit Lions  इससे  1988 to 1996  .
His 67  विन्स  and 71  नुकसान   हैं  each the most for a head coach in  टोली  history  .
The Jews ( ISO  259-3  Israeli pronunciation ) , also known as the Jewish people , are a nation and an ethnoreligious group , originating in  the  Israelites or Hebrews of  the  Ancient Near  ईस्ट  .
The Jewish ethnicity  ,  nationality , and religion are strongly interrelated , as Judaism is  the  traditional faith of the Jewish nation .
Converts to Judaism , whose status as Jews within the Jewish ethnos is equal to those born into it , have been absorbed into the Jewish people  throughout  the millennia .
In Jewish tradition , Jewish ancestry is traced to the Biblical patriarchs Abraham , Isaac and Jacob in the second  मिलेनियम  BCE .
The modern State of Israel  थी   स्थापित  as a Jewish nation-state  ,  and defines itself as such in its Basic Laws .
Its  विधि  of Return grants the right  of  citizenship to any Jew who  निवेदन   it  .
Israel is the only country where Jews are a majority of the population .
Jews also enjoyed political autonomy  twice  before  in  ancient history .
The first of  ये  periods lasted from 1350 to 586 BCE  ,  and encompassed the periods of the Judges , the United Monarchy , and the Divided Monarchy of the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah  ,  ending with the destruction of the First Temple .
The second was the period of the Hasmonean Kingdom spanning from 140 to 37 BCE .
Since the destruction of the First Temple , most Jews have lived  in  diaspora .
a  minority  in  every country in which  वे  live  (  except Israel )  ,  they have frequently experienced persecution throughout  इतिहास   ,  resulting in a population  कि   रै  fluctuated  दोनो   in  numbers and distribution over the centuries .
The world  यहूदी  population reached  a  peak of 15  लाख  prior to the Second World War ,  लकिन  six million Jews were killed in the  holocaust  .
चूंकि  then the population has risen  again  and , was estimated at 13.4 million by  the  North American Jewish Data Bank , or less than 0.2 % of the total world population ( roughly one in every  514  people ) .
According to  इस  report  ,  about 42.5 % of all Jews reside  in  Israel ( 5.7 million )  ,  and 39.3 % in the United States ( 5.3 million ) , with most of the remainder living in Europe ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ) .
These numbers  शामिल  all those who consider themselves  यहूदियों  , whether or not they are affiliated with  a   यहूदी  organization .
The total world Jewish population , however , is difficult to measure .
In addition to  मुद्दे  with census methodology , there are halakhic disputes regarding who is a Jew and  धर्मनिरपेक्ष  , political , and ancestral identification factors that may affect the figure  considerably  .
Corpus Christi procession .
Oil on canvas  by  Carl Emil Doepler .
Corpus Domini redirects here .
For other uses see Corpus Domini ( disambiguation )
The Feast of Corpus Christi ( Latin for Body of Christ ) , also known as Corpus Domini , is a Latin Rite  liturgical  solemnity celebrating the tradition and belief  in  the  देह  and blood of Jesus Christ and his Real Presence in the Eucharist .
It emphasizes the joy of the institution of the Eucharist , which was observed on Holy Thursday in  the  somber atmosphere of the nearness of Good Friday  .
In the present Roman Missal , the feast is designated the solemnity of  the   सबसे  Holy Body and Blood of Christ .
It is also celebrated in some Anglican , Lutheran , and Old Catholic Churches that hold similar beliefs regarding the Real Presence .
the  feast is liturgically celebrated on the Thursday after  ट्रिनिटी  Sunday or  ,  ``  जहाँ   the  Solemnity of the Most Holy Body  और  Blood of Christ is not a Holy Day of Obligation , it is assigned to  the   संडे  after the Most Holy Trinity as its proper  दिन  '' .
At the end of Holy Mass , there  is  often a procession of the Blessed  sacrament  , generally displayed in  a  monstrance .
The procession is followed by  सुनाकर  of the Blessed Sacrament .
a  notable Eucharistic procession is that  presided  over by the Pope each year in Rome , where it begins at the Archbasilica of St.  जॉन  Lateran and makes  इसके   रास्ता  to the Basilica of Saint Mary Major , where it  concludes  with Benediction .
c-reactive  protein ( CRP ) is a protein found in the blood , the levels of which rise in response to inflammation ( i.e .  c-reactive  protein is an acute-phase protein ) .
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine  expressed   on  the surface of dead or  मरना   कोशिकाएं  ( and some types of bacteria ) in order to activate  the  complement system  via  the C1Q complex .
CRP is synthesized by the liver in response to factors released by macrophages and fat cells ( adipocytes  )  .
It is a member of the pentraxin family of  प्रोटीन  .
It is not related to C-peptide or protein C .
C-reactive protein was the first pattern recognition receptor ( PRR ) to be identified  .
The start of the systematic European colonization of the Americas is  typically  dated to 1492 ,  जब  a  स्पेनी  expedition headed by Christopher Columbus sailed for  इण्डिया  to open trade but inadvertently discovered the Americas .
European conquest , large-scale exploration and colonization soon followed .
Seeing that Europe was preoccupied  साथ  many internal wars and was slowly recovering  इससे  the many deaths that the bubonic plague caused , the rapid  विस्तार  at which it grew in wealth and power was unforeseeable in the early 1400s .
The  पहला  expeditions occurred along the Caribbean  coasts  on the islands of Hispaniola  ,  Puerto Rico and Cuba , and  बाद  1500 extended into the interiors of both  उत्तर  and South America .
In 1497 , sailing from the north on behalf of England , John Cabot landed on the North American  coast  , and a year later , Columbus 's third voyage reached the South American coast .
फ़्रांस  founded colonies in much of eastern North America , on  a  number of  caribbean  islands  ,  and  in  South America .
Portugal colonized Brazil .
Eventually , the entire Western Hemisphere came under the control of European governments ,  अग्रणी   to  profound changes to its landscape , population  ,  and plant and animal life .
In the  19th  century alone over 50  लाख  people left Europe for the Americas .
The post-1492 era is known as the period of the Columbian Exchange .
Keith Richards  (  born 18 December 1943 ) is  an  English musician , singer-songwriter  और  founder member of the English rock band the Rolling Stones  .
Rolling Stone magazine said Richards had created `` rock 's greatest single  देह   of  riffs '' , ranking him 4th on  इसके  list of 100 best guitarists  .
Fourteen songs Richards wrote with the Rolling Stones ' lead vocalist Mick Jagger are listed among Rolling  स्टोन  magazine 's `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time `` .
रिचर्ड्स  ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in part from  अनेक  drug busts during the late 1960s and 1970s and his candour regarding his addiction to and eventual  abstinence  from  हेरोइन  .
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from  the  androgen group and is found in mammals , reptiles , birds , and other vertebrates .
In mammals , testosterone is primarily secreted in the testicles of males and the ovaries of females , although small amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands .
It is the principal  पुरूष  sex hormone and an anabolic steroid .
In  मेन  ,  टेस्टोस्टेरोन  plays a key  भूमिका  in the development of male reproductive tissues such as the testis and prostate as  खूब  as promoting  द्वितीयक  sexual characteristics such  as  increased muscle , bone mass , and the  विकास  of body hair .
In addition , testosterone is  अनिवार्य  for health and  well-being  as well as the prevention  of   ऑस्टियोपोरोसिस  .
On average , in adult human males , the plasma concentration of testosterone is about 7–8 times as great  as  the concentration in adult human females  '  plasma , but as the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males is greater , the daily production is about 20 times greater in men .
Females also are more sensitive to the hormone .
Testosterone is observed in most vertebrates .
मछली  make a slightly  अलग  form called 11-ketotestosterone .
Its counterpart in insects is ecdysone .
These ubiquitous steroids suggest that sex hormones  have  an ancient evolutionary  इतिहास  .
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used when `` natural '' but relatively homogeneous groupings are evident in  a   सांख्यिकीय  population .
It is often used in marketing research .
In  इस  technique , the total  जनसांख्यिकी  is divided into these groups ( or clusters ) and a simple random sample of the groups is selected .
Then the required information is collected  इससे  a simple random sample of the elements within each  चयनित   समूह  .
This may be done for every element in these groups or  a  subsample of elements may be selected within each of these groups .
A common  प्रेरणा  for cluster sampling is  to  reduce the total number of interviews and costs given the desired accuracy .
Assuming a fixed sample size , the technique gives  अधिक  accurate results when most of the variation in the population is within the groups , not between them .
Jamestown is a town in  guilford  County , North Carolina , United States , and is a suburb of the nearby cities of Greensboro and  ऊँची  Point .
The population was 3,382 at the 2010 census .
Natalie Portman ( born Natalie Hershlag ; ; June 9  ,  1981 ) is an actress and model with  डुअल  American and Israeli citizenship .
Her first role was as an orphan taken in by a hitman in the 1994 action film , but mainstream success came when she was cast as Padmé Amidala in the  स्टार  Wars prequel trilogy  (  released in 1999 , 2002 and 2005 ) .
In 1999  ,  she enrolled at Harvard  विश्वविद्यालयों  to study psychology while still  working  as an actress .
She completed her bachelor 's  उपाधि  in 2003 .
In 2001  ,  Portman opened in New York City 's Public Theater production of Anton Chekhov 's The Seagull .
In 2005 , Portman received a nomination  लिये  the Academy Award for Best  supporting  Actress and won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress  -  Motion Picture for the drama Closer .
She won a Constellation Award for Best Female  प्रदर्शन  and  a  Saturn Award  लिये  Best  अभिनेत्री  for her starring role in V for Vendetta (  2006  ) .
She played leading  भूमिकाएँ  in the historical dramas Goya 's Ghosts  (  2006  )  and The Other Boleyn Girl ( 2008 ) .
In  may  2008  ,  she served as the youngest member of the 61st Annual Cannes  फिल्मी  Festival jury .
पोर्टमैन  's directorial debut , Eve  ,  opened the 65th Venice International Film Festival 's shorts competition in 2008 .
Portman directed a segment of the collective film New York , I Love You .
In 2011 , Portman won the Academy Award ,  the  Golden Globe Award , the BAFTA Award , the  स्क्रीन  Actors Guild Award , and the Independent  स्पिरिट  Award for her lead performance as Nina Sayers in Black  swan  .
Copper is a chemical element with the symbol Cu ( from )  और   परमाणु  number  29  .
It is a ductile metal with very high thermal and electrical conductivity .
Pure copper is soft and malleable ; a  freshly  exposed surface has  a   reddish-orange  color .
It is used as a conductor of heat and electricity , a building material , and a constituent of  विभिन्न  metal  alloys  .
The metal and its alloys have been used for thousands of years .
In  the  Roman era , copper was principally mined on Cyprus , hence the  उत्पत्ति  of the name of the metal as сyprium ( metal of Cyprus )  ,  later shortened to  сuprum  .
Its compounds are commonly encountered as  तांबे  (  ii  )  लवण  ,  जिससे  often impart blue or green colors to minerals  ऐसे  as azurite and turquoise and  have  been widely  प्रयुक्त  historically as pigments  .
Architectural structures built with copper corrode to give green verdigris (  or  patina  )  .
Decorative art prominently features copper  ,  both by itself and as part  of  pigments .
Copper is essential to  सब  living organisms as a trace  dietary  mineral because it is a key  constituent  of the  respiratory  enzyme complex cytochrome c oxidase .
in  molluscs and crustacea copper is a constituent  of  the blood pigment hemocyanin , which is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in fish  और  other vertebrates .
The main areas where copper is  मिला  in vertebrates are liver , muscle and bone  .
In sufficient concentration , copper compounds are poisonous to higher organisms and are used as bacteriostatic substances , fungicides  ,   और  wood preservatives .
The major professional  खेल  leagues  ,  or simply major  लीग   ,  in the United States and Canada are the  उच्चतम  professional competitions of team sports in the  दो   देशों  .
हालांकि  individual sports such as golf , tennis , and auto racing are also  बहुत  popular , the  पद  is usually limited to team sports .
The  पद  `` major league '' was first used in 1921  in   सन्दर्भ  to Major League Baseball ( MLB ) , the top level of professional American baseball .
Today , the major northern North America professional team sports leagues are Major League Baseball  (  MLB  )  , the National Basketball Association ( NBA ) , the National Football League ( NFL ) ,  और  the National Hockey  लीग  (  एनएचएल  ) .
Other notable leagues include Major  लीग  Soccer ( MLS ) , the Canadian Football League ( CFL ) , the Arena Football League , Major League Lacrosse , the National Lacrosse League and the Women 's National  बास्केट   संघ  .
The NFL , MLB , NBA  ,  and NHL are commonly  referred  to as the Big Four .
Each of these  is  the richest professional club competition  in   इसके  sport worldwide .
The best players can become cultural  प्रतीक  in  दोनो  countries  और  elsewhere in the world , because the leagues enjoy a significant place in popular culture in the US and Canada .
The NFL  रै  32 teams , and the others have  30  each .
the  vast majority of  प्रमुख  league teams are concentrated in the most populous metropolitan  क्षेत्रों  of the United States .
Baseball ,  फ़ुटबॉल  , hockey , and soccer have had professional leagues  लिये   over  100 years ; early  लीग   ऐसे  as the  नेशनल  Association , Ohio League , and National Hockey Association formed the basis of the modern MLB , NFL and NHL respectively .
Soccer was first  professionalized  in 1894 , but leagues suffered greatly from  कमी   of  sustainability  और  seldom lasted more  than  a decade .
Soccer 's greatest successes were in the form of the American Soccer League (  1921-1933  ) , the  असली  North American Soccer League (  1968-1984  ) , the  नेशनल  Professional Soccer League  (  1984-2001 ) and , currently , Major League Soccer ( 1996-present ) .
Basketball is a relatively new development ; the NBA  विकसित  from the National Basketball League and its splinter group the Basketball Association of America , taking on its current form in 1949 .
Every major  लीग  averages 15,000  प्रशंसक  in  उपस्थिति   प्रति  game or higher as of 2011 .
Meridian Altitude is  an  astronomical navigation method of calculating an observer 's latitude .
Earned  मान  management ( EVM ) , or Earned value project/performance management ( EVPM ) is  a  project management technique for measuring project performance and progress in an objective manner .
Because EVM has the ability to  combine  measurements of :
scope
schedule
और  cost,
in a  सिंगल  integrated system , Earned Value Management is able to provide  सटीक  forecasts  of  project performance problems , which is  an   महत्वपूर्ण  contribution for project management .
Early EVM research showed that  the  areas of planning  और  control are significantly impacted by  इसके  use ; and similarly , using  the   methodology  improves both scope  परिभाषा  as well  as   the  analysis of overall project performance .
More recent research studies have shown that the principles of EVM are positive predictors of project success .
लोकप्रियता  of EVM has grown significantly in recent years beyond government contracting , in which sector its importance continues to  वृद्धि  ( e.g. , recent new DFAR rules ) , in part because EVM can also surface in and help substantiate contract disputes .
Colorful spring garden flowers
Spring is one of the four conventional temperate seasons , following winter and preceding summer .
There  हैं  various technical definitions  of  spring ,  लकिन   लोकल  usage of the term varies according to local climate , cultures and  कस्टम   .
When it is spring in  the  northern hemisphere , it will be autumn in the  दक्षिणी  hemisphere .
At the spring equinox , days are close to 12 hours long with day  लंबाई  increasing as  the  season progresses .
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season , and also to ideas of rebirth , rejuvenation  ,  renewal ,  क़यामत  , and regrowth , with festivals such as  कार्निवल   ,  Easter and Holi being celebrated at this time .
Jamestown was  a  settlement in the Colony of Virginia , the first permanent  अंग्रेज़ी  settlement in the  americas  .
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` James Fort '' on May 14 , 1607 ( O.S . , May 24 , 1607 N.S . ) , it followed several earlier failed attempts , including the Lost Colony of Roanoke .
Jamestown served as the capital of the colony for  83  years , from 1616 until 1699 .
The settlement was located within the territory of  a  political entity  ज्ञात  as Tsenacommacah , the state of the Powhatan Confederacy , with around  14,000  native inhabitants , and specifically was in part  of  the subdivision known as the Paspahegh  जनजाति  .
The natives initially welcomed the colonists with dancing , feasting and tobacco ceremonies , and they provided crucial provisions and support for the survival of the colonists , who  यहूद  not agriculturally inclined , although relations with the newcomers also  soured  fairly early on , leading to the total annihilation of the Paspahegh in  warfare   भीतर  3 years  .
Within a year  of  Jamestown 's founding , the Virginia Company brought Polish and Dutch colonists to  सहायता  improve the settlement .
in   1619  ,  the  first documented Africans were brought to Jamestown , though the modern conception of slavery in the  भविष्य  United States did not begin in Virginia until 1660 .
When the colony was subdivided into the original  आठ  shires  of  Virginia in 1634 , the town became located in the eponymous James City Shire .
The London Company 's second settlement , Bermuda , claims to be the site of the  oldest   कस्बा  in the English New World , as St. George 's , Bermuda  थी  officially established ( as New London ) in 1612 , whereas  जेम्स  Fort , in Virginia , was not  to   be  converted into James towne until 1619 , and further did not survive into the present day .
In 1699 , the capital was  relocated   इससे  Jamestown to what is today Williamsburg , after which Jamestown  ceased  to  मौजूद  as a settlement  ,  existing today only as an archaeological site .
Today ,  jamestown  is one of three locations comprising the Historic Triangle of Colonial Virginia , along with Williamsburg and Yorktown , with two primary heritage sites .
Historic Jamestowne , the archaeological site on Jamestown Island  ,  is a cooperative effort by  jamestown  National Historic Site ( part of Colonial National Historical Park )  ,  and Preservation Virginia .
The Jamestown Settlement , a living history interpretive site , is operated by the Jamestown Yorktown Foundation in  संयोजन  with the Commonwealth of  वर्जिनिया   .
James Christopher Frey ( born  सितंबर   12  , 1969 )  is  an American writer .
His books A Million Little Pieces  (  2003 ) and My  dost  Leonard ( 2005  )   ,   as   खूब   as  Bright Shiny Morning  (  2008 ) , were bestsellers .
He was the subject  of   a  scandal when investigators discovered that prison  समय  and the extent of certain injuries were exaggerated in A Million Little Pieces , a  अधिकारीगण  autobiographical account of the author 's struggle  साथ  addiction .
Deere & Company , most commonly known  by  its name John Deere , is  an  American corporation based in Moline , Illinois , and one of the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in  the  world .
In 2012 , it was listed as 97th  in  the Fortune 500 America 's  रैंकिंग  and  190th  in the Fortune 500 Global ranking .
Deere and Company agricultural products ,  बेची  under the John Deere name , include tractors  ,  combine harvesters  ,  cotton harvesters , balers ,  planters  / seeders , sprayers  ,  and UTVs .
The company is also a manufacturer of construction equipment and  वानिकी   उपकरण   ,  as well as a supplier of diesel engines and drivetrains ( axles , transmissions , gearboxes ) used in heavy equipment .
Additionally , John Deere manufactures equipment used in lawn , grounds , and turf care ,  ऐसे  as walk-behind lawn  mowers  , zero-turn lawn mowers  ,  lawn tractors , and snowthrowers .
To support the core businesses , John Deere also provides financial services and other related activities  .
The company 's slogan is `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' and has a picture of a leaping deer as a logo , a word play pun on `` nothing runs like a deer '' .
Carl Westby  coined   the  phrase `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere ''  लिये  a marketing campaign to sell snowmobiles .
The  कम्पनी  's products are also identifiable by its distinctive shade  of  green  पेंट  , usually augmented by  पीला  trim .
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 )  is  a denomination  of  United States currency .
The  पहला  U.S. Secretary  of  the Treasury  (  1789–95 ) , Alexander Hamilton , is currently featured on  the  obverse of the bill , while the U.S. Treasury Building is  प्रदर्शित  on the  रिवर्स  .
( Hamilton is one of two non-presidents featured on currently issued U.S. bills .
The other is  बेंजामिन  Franklin , on the $ 100  विधेयक   .
Hamilton  is  one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was not born in the continental United States , as he was from the West Indies .
The others are : Albert Gallatin , Switzerland  (  $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender )  ;  George  meade  , Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note  )  ; and Robert  मॉरिस  , England ( $  1,000  1862/63 Legal Tender ; $  10  1878/80  चांदी   प्रमाणपत्र  ) .
in  addition , Kamehameha I , appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter . )
All $ 10  बिल्स  issued today are Federal Reserve Notes .
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life  of  a $ 10 bill in  परिसंचरण  is 18 months before it is replaced due  to  wear .
Approximately 6 % of all US banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills .
Ten dollar bills are delivered by Federal Reserve Banks in  पीला  straps .
The  सोर्स   of  the face  on  the $ 10 bill is  जॉन  Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall .
The $ 10  विधेयक   is  the only U.S. paper currency in circulation  in  which the portrait faces to the left  (  the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow  विल्सन  facing to the left ,  लकिन  was used only for intra-government transactions ) .
Andy Samuel Griffith ( June 1  ,  1926  –  July 3 , 2012 ) was an American actor , television producer , Grammy Award -winning Southern-gospel singer , and writer .
He was a Tony Award  nominee  for two roles , and gained prominence in the starring role in director Elia Kazan  's  film A Face in the Crowd ( 1957 ) before he became better known for his television roles , playing the lead characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock  .
Theresa Penelope `` Terri '' Irwin , (  née  Raines ; born July 20 , 1964 ) is  an  Australian -based , American -born naturalist , author , the widow of  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई   naturalist  Steve Irwin and owner of Australia Zoo at Beerwah , Queensland , Australia .
She co-starred with  उसके  husband on The Crocodile Hunter , their unconventional television nature documentary  श्रेणी  along with its spin-off series , Croc Files and The Crocodile Hunter  डायरीज़  .
She has  जिया  in Australia since 1992 , when she  शादीशुदा  Steve Irwin .
Andreas Cellarius  's  illustration of the Copernican system , from the Harmonia Macrocosmica ( 1660 ) .
heliocentrism  , or heliocentricism , is the astronomical model in which  the  Earth and planets  revolve  around a relatively stationary Sun at  the  center of the Solar System .
The word comes from the  यूनानी  ( helios `` sun '' and kentron `` center '' ) .
Historically , heliocentrism was opposed to geocentrism , which placed the  धरती  at  the  center .
the  notion that the Earth revolves around the Sun had been proposed as early as the 3rd century BC by Aristarchus of Samos , but Aristarchus 's heliocentrism  आकर्षित  little attention until Copernicus revived  और  elaborated it .
Lucio Russo , however , argues that this is a misleading impression resulting  इससे  the loss of scientific works of the Hellenistic Era .
Using indirect evidence he argues that a heliocentric view was expounded  in  Hipparchus 's work on gravity .
It was not until the 16th century that  a  fully predictive mathematical model of a heliocentric system was presented , by the Renaissance mathematician , astronomer , and Catholic cleric Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland , leading to the Copernican Revolution .
in  the following century , Johannes Kepler  elaborated  upon and expanded this model to include elliptical  orbits  ,  और  supporting observations  बना  using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei .
With the  observations  of  विलियम  Herschel , Friedrich Bessel , and others , astronomers realized that the sun was not the  बीच  of the universe and by the 1920s Edwin Hubble had  दिखाया  that it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way )  कि  was only one of many billions .
Norah Jones ( born Geetali Norah Jones Shankar ; March 30 , 1979  )  is an American singer-songwriter  ,  pianist , and actress .
वो  is the daughter of Indian sitar player Ravi  शंकर  and Sue  जोन्स  .
She is also Anoushka Shankar 's half-sister .
in  2002 ,  वो  launched her solo  म्यूज़िक   करियर  with the release of the commercially successful and critically acclaimed album Come  दूर  with Me , a fusion of  देश  music and pop  साथ  elements of jazz  जिससे  was certified diamond album , selling over 26 million copies .
The record earned Jones five Grammy Awards , including the Album of the Year , Record of  the  Year , and Best  नई  Artist .
Her subsequent studio albums ,  feels  Like Home , released  in  2004 , Not Too Late , released in 2007 , the  वही  year she made her film debut  in  My Blueberry Nights , and her 2009 release  the  Fall  सब  gained Platinum status , selling  over  a million copies and were generally well received by critics .
Jones ' fifth studio album , Little Broken Hearts , was released on April 27 , 2012 .
Jones has won nine Grammy Awards and was 60th on Billboard magazine 's artists of the 2000–2009 decade chart .
throughout  her career , Jones has won numerous awards and has sold more than 50 million  एल्बम  worldwide .
Billboard named  उसके  the  शीर्ष  jazz artist of the 2000–2009 decade .
Not  to  be confused with Dimension of a physical quantity  .
For other uses , see  आयाम  ( disambiguation ) .
From left to right , the square ,  the  cube ,  और  the tesseract .
The square is bounded by 1-dimensional lines  ,  the cube by 2-dimensional areas , and the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes .
A projection of the cube is given since it is viewed on a two-dimensional screen .
The same applies to the tesseract  ,  which additionally can only be shown  as   a  projection even in three-dimensional  स्पेस  .
A diagram showing the first  चार  spatial dimensions  .
In physics and mathematics , the dimension of a space or object is informally defined as the minimum number  of  coordinates needed to specify any point within it .
यूँ  a  लकीर  has a dimension of one because only one coordinate is needed to specify a point on it ( for example , the point at 5 on a number line  )  .
A  सतह  such as a plane or the surface of a cylinder or sphere has a dimension of two because two coordinates are needed to specify a point on it ( for example , to locate a point on the surface  of  a  गोला  you need both its latitude and its longitude )  .
The inside of a cube , a cylinder or a sphere is three-dimensional because three coordinates are needed to locate a point within these spaces .
In physical terms , dimension refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume ) and its position in time ( perceived as a scalar  आयाम  along the t-axis ) , as  खूब   as  the spatial constitution of  वस्तुएँ  within—structures that correlate with both particle and field conceptions , interact according to relative properties of mass —and are fundamentally mathematical in description  .
These , or other axes , may be referenced to uniquely identify a point or structure in its attitude and relationship to other  वस्तुएँ  and occurrences .
Physical theories that incorporate time , such as general  आपेक्षिकता  , are said to work in 4-dimensional `` spacetime `` , (  पारिभाषित  as a Minkowski space )  .
Modern theories tend  to  be `` higher-dimensional ''  सहित  quantum field and string theories .
The state-space of quantum mechanics is an infinite-dimensional function space .
The concept of dimension is  नहीं  restricted to physical objects .
High-dimensional spaces occur in mathematics and the sciences for many reasons , frequently as  विन्यास  spaces such as in Lagrangian or  हेमिल्टोनीय  mechanics ; these are  अमूर्त  spaces , independent of the physical space  we  live  in  .
Fontana ( )  is  a city of 200,762 residents in San  bernardino  County , California .
Founded in 1913 , it remained essentially rural until World War II , when entrepreneur Henry J. Kaiser built a large steel mill  in   the  area .
It is now  a  regional  हब  of the trucking industry , with Interstate 10 and  राज्य  Route 210 transecting the  नगर  from east to west ,  और  Interstate 15  गुजर  diagonally through its northwestern quadrant .
It  is   घर  to the largest  of  the San Bernardino County system libraries , a renovated historic theater , a municipal park  ,  and  the  Auto Club  स्पीडवे  on the site of the Kaiser Steel Mill .
Fontana  भी  hosts the Fontana Days Half Marathon and 5K run .
This race is  the   तीव्रतम  half-marathon course in the world .
The U.S. 2012 Census reported that Fontana 's population was 200,762 in 2012 , making it the second most  populous  city in San Bernardino county county and 14th in the state .
Cowboys Stadium is a stadium with a retractable roof in Arlington , Texas  .
It  serves  as  the  home of the National Football League 's Dallas Cowboys .
It replaced  the  partially covered Texas Stadium , which opened in 1971  ,  and served  as  the Cowboys  '  home through the 2008 season .
It was completed on  may  27 , 2009 .
the  stadium seats 85,000 , making it the third largest stadium in the  एनएफएल  by seating capacity  .
The maximum capacity of the stadium , including standing room , is 105,000 .
The Party Pass ( open areas ) sections are behind seats in each end zone  और  on a series of six elevated platforms connected by stairways .
It has the world 's largest column-free interior and  the   चौथी  largest high definition video screen , which hangs from 20 yard line to 20 yard line .
The facility can  भी  be  प्रयुक्त  for a variety of other activities outside of its main purpose ( professional football ) such as concerts , basketball  खेल  , boxing matches  ,  college football and  ऊँची  school football contests , soccer  मिलान  , and motocross races .
Canadian historians until  the  1980s  tended  to focus on economic history , including labour history .
In part this is  क्युकी  Canada has had far fewer political or military conflicts than other societies .
This  थी  especially  सच्चा   in  the first half of the twentieth century when economic history was overwhelmingly dominant .
अनेक  of the most prominent English Canadian historians from this period were economic historians , such as Harold Innis , Donald Creighton and Arthur R. M. Lower
विद्वानों   of  Canadian history were  वारिस   to  the traditions that developed in Europe and the United States , but frameworks that worked well elsewhere often failed in Canada .
the  heavily Marxist influenced  आर्थिक   इतिहास  that dominates Europe has little relevance  to  most of Canadian history .
A focus on class , urban areas , and industry  fails  to address Canada 's rural and resource based economy .
Similarly , the monetarist school  कि  is dominant in the United States also  रै  been difficult to transfer north of the border .
The study  of  economic history in Canada became  अत्यधिक  focused on economic geography , and for many years the dominant school of thought has been  the   स्टेपल्स  thesis  .
This school of thought bases the study of the Canadian economy on the study of natural resources .
This approach has since also become used outside  of  Canada in Australia and in  अनेक   विकासशील   राष्ट्र  .
Before the  आगमन  of Europeans , the First Nations of what would become Canada had a large  और  vibrant trade network .
Furs , tools , decorative items , and other  goods  were often transported thousands of kilometres  ,  mostly by canoe throughout the many rivers and lakes of the region .
The early European  इतिहास  of the Canadian economy is usually studied  through  the  स्टेपल्स  thesis which argues the Canadian economy developed through  the  exploitation of a series of staples that would be exported to Europe .
Carbon-14 , 14C  ,  or radiocarbon , is a radioactive isotope of carbon with a nucleus containing  6  protons and 8 neutrons .
Its presence  in  organic materials is the  आधार  of the radiocarbon dating method pioneered by Willard Libby  और  colleagues ( 1949 )  to  date archaeological , geological and hydrogeological samples .
Carbon-14 was discovered on 27 February 1940 , by Martin Kamen and  sam  Ruben at the University of California Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley ,  हालांकि  its existence had been suggested by Franz Kurie in 1934 .
There are three naturally occurring isotopes  of  carbon  on  Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12 , 1 % is carbon-13 , and carbon-14 occurs in trace  amounts  , i.e. , making up about 1 part per trillion ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the  माहौल  .
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 years .
Carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through  बीटा  decay .
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on Earth  is  cosmic ray action upon nitrogen in the atmosphere , and it is therefore a cosmogenic nuclide .
However , open-air  नाभिकीय   परीक्षण  between 1955–1980 contributed  to  this pool .
The different isotopes  of   कार्बन  do not differ appreciably in their chemical properties .
This is  प्रयुक्त  in chemical and biological research , in a technique called carbon labeling : carbon-14 atoms  can  be used to replace nonradioactive carbon , in order to  ट्रेस  chemical and biochemical reactions involving carbon atoms from any given  सशुल्क  compound .
Lightning is a highly visible form of energy transfer
Lightning  हमलों  are electrical discharges on a massive scale between the  माहौल  and an earth-bound object .
They mostly originate in  thunderclouds  and terminate on the ground , called Cloud to Ground ( CG ) lightning .
However , they may also be initiated from a very tall grounded object and reach into  the   बादल   .
Although `` a lightning strike '' is commonly used to describe all lightning , it is  बल्कि  erroneous and  a  misnomer ,  as  only about 25 % of  सब  lightning events worldwide are CG , the large bulk of lightning events are Intracloud ( IC ) or Cloud to Cloud ( CC ) , where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere .
The scientific name for the complete process of a single lightning event is a and  it  is a very complex , multiple stepped interaction , which is not completely understood .
Most CG flashes  तभी  `` strike '' one physical location , referred to as  a  termination .
The primary conducting channel , the bright coursing light you may see and call  a  `` strike '' , is only about 1 inch in diameter , although to our eyes it looks much larger .
They are miles  long  , upwards of tens of miles  .
And the entire flash , lasts only a few fractions of a second , most  of  which is  नहीं  visible to human eyes .
Thunder is always produced by lightning .
Just like lightning  ,  that deceives our eyes , usually looking larger or closer than it really is ,  the  earth 's atmosphere and our brain 's perception of the outside world , ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not .
Lightning can  नहीं   happen  in a vacuum devoid of ions , nor  can   थंडर  occur without molecules to vibrate .
Thunder is a physical absolute for every single flash of lightning .
Contrary to popular belief , a lightning strike itself is usually not  जिम्मेदार  for multiple deaths or injuries from a  सिंगल  event .
it  would be impossible given the  प्राकृतिक  tendencies  of  a flash , unless people or animals were stacked on top of each other , or  वे  were somehow arranged vertically and part of the flash channel .
When  बिजली  ignites an available fuel source and  an  explosion occurs , it is the shock wave or fire causing  the  injuries , not the strike itself .
Ground Currents  ,   भी  called step potential , of  an  earth termination is  कया  truly causes most injuries or death  to  humans and animals  .
The near  instantaneous  rush of  सतह  charges ,  induced  by the overhead  thundercloud  itself , race to the  स्ट्राइक  point from hundreds to thousands of feet away during discharge .
This current , caused  दौरान  each stroke , takes the path of least  प्रतिरोध  , which may be ion rich human or animal legs , over poorly conducting  धरती  .
This is why it is best to crouch , with feet close together , if ever caught  in  the open during a  अंधड़  .
Unfortunately , most reports do not draw a distinction  between  the real cause of injury or death , be it the strike itself ,  a  resulting explosion or  आग  ,  or  usually responsible step potential .
Peter F. Kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is  the  current Attorney General of Rhode Island .
Kilmartin is  भी  a retired police  कप्तान  and a former  सदस्य   of   the  Rhode Island  हाउस  of  प्रतिनिधि  .
A couple following their marriage in the  manti   यूटा  Temple .
Sealing  is   an  ordinance ( ritual ) performed  in  Latter Day Saints temples by  a  person holding the sealing authority .
The purpose of this ordinance is to seal familiar relationships ,  बनाना   संभावित  the existence of family relationships throughout eternity  .
LDS teachings place great importance on the specific authority required to perform these sealings .
Church doctrine teaches that this authority ,  पुकारा  the Priesthood , corresponds to that given to Saint Peter in .
Sealings are typically performed as marriages or as sealing of children to parents .
They were  performed  prior to the death of  जोसेफ  Smith , Jr. ( the main founder of the  latter  Day Saint movement ) , and are currently performed  in  The Church of Jesus  मसीह  of Latter-day Saints .
Although some other denominations , such as the Community of  मसीह  , view sealing as an  centuries  of Smith 's practice of plural marriage , some do still perform them .
The 2000s , pronounced `` two thousands '' ,  थी  a decade that began on January 1 , 2000 , and ended  on  December 31 , 2009 .
Globalization , which had accelerated after the early 1990s fall of communism , continued to be a force in the 2000s .
The growth of the Internet was one of the prime contributors to  वैश्वीकरण   दौरान  the decade , making it possible for people to interact with other people , express ideas , introduce others  to   अलग  cultures and backgrounds , use goods and services , sell and buy online  ,  research and learn about  बाते  , along with experiencing the world without having to leave home .
The institutions , linkages and technologies  कि  emerged or were redefined earlier would subsequently in this decade benefit many countries , in particular China and India .
However , in other parts of the world such progress failed  to  address ongoing struggles with modernity , most notably characterized  by  the rise of al-Qaeda and other Islamist groups .
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to the United States , United Kingdom , Spain , Canada and other nations invading Afghanistan , as well  as  implementing various anti-terrorist measures at home and abroad in what was known as the War on Terror .
the   यूरोपीय   संघ   देखी  further integration and expansion throughout much of Europe .
The economic growth of the 2000s had considerable environmental consequences , raised demand for  घटाते  energy  संसाधन  , and  थी  still shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated during  the   वैश्विक  Financial Crisis of the  लेट  2000s .
The Gunfight at the O.K .  corral  was  a  gunfight that took place  at   परिचय  3:00 p.m. on Wednesday , October 26 , 1881 , in Tombstone , Arizona Territory , and is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight  in  the history of the American Old West .
The  gunfight   ,  believed to have lasted only about thirty seconds , was fought between the outlaw Cowboys Billy Claiborne , Ike and Billy Clanton , and Tom and Frank McLaury ,  और  the opposing town Marshal Virgil Earp and his  भाइयो  Assistant Town Marshal Morgan and temporary lawman  व्याट  , aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil .
Ike Clanton and Billy  claiborne  ran from the fight unharmed , but Ike  's  brother Billy  clanton  was killed , along with both McLaurys .
Lawmen Virgil and Morgan Earp and Doc Holliday were wounded .
Only Wyatt Earp came through the fight unharmed .
The fight has come to represent a time in American history when  the  frontier was open  दायरा   लिये  outlaws opposed by law enforcement that was spread thin over vast  territories  , leaving some areas unprotected .
The gunfight was not well known to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake  प्रकाशित  what has since been determined to be a largely fictionalized biography , Wyatt Earp  :  Frontier Marshal , two years after Earp 's death .
Lake  retold  his story in  a   1946  book that director John Ford developed  into  the movie  my  Darling Clementine .
बाद  the movie Gunfight at the O.K . Corral was released in 1957 , the  गोलीबारी  came to be known by that name .
Since then  ,  the conflict has been portrayed with varying degrees of accuracy in numerous  पश्चिमी   films  and books .
Despite its  नाम  , the gunfight  दरअसल  occurred in a narrow lot  छह  doors west of  the  rear entrance to the O.K . Corral on Fremont Street , and also in the street .
The two opposing  पार्टियों  were initially only about apart .
परिचय  thirty  गोलियाँ  were fired in thirty seconds .
Ike  clanton  filed murder charges against  the  Earps and Doc Holliday  लकिन  they were eventually exonerated by a local judge after a 30-day preliminary hearing and then again by a local grand jury .
On December 28 , 1881 , Virgil Earp was  maimed  in an assassination attempt by the outlaw  cowboys  , and on March 18  ,  1882 , they assassinated  मॉर्गन  Earp .
The suspects furnished solid alibis , and newly appointed Deputy U.S . Marshal  व्याट   earp  took matters into  उसके  own hands during the Earp Vendetta Ride , ironically pursued by county Sheriff Johnny Behan with warrants for the  earp  's arrest .
HDMI  (  High-Definition Multimedia Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface for transferring  uncompressed  video data  और   compressed/uncompressed  digital audio data from a HDMI-compliant device ( `` the source device  ''  ) to a compatible computer monitor , video projector , digital television , or digital audio device .
HDMI is a digital replacement for  मौजूदा  analog video  मानकों  .
There are  a  number of  hdmi-standard  cable  कनेक्टर्स  available , each of which can be used for any uncompressed TV or  pc  video format , including standard ,  उन्नत  , high definition , and  3d  video signals ; up to  8  channels of compressed or uncompressed digital audio ; a CEC ( Consumer Electronics Control ) connection ; and an  ईथरनेट  data connection  .
HDMI implements  the  EIA/CEA-861 standards , which define video formats and waveforms ,  हस्तांतरण  of compressed , uncompressed ,  और  LPCM audio , auxiliary data , and implementations of the VESA EDID .
The CEC allows HDMI devices to control each other when necessary and allows  the  user  to  operate multiple devices with one  रिमोट  control handset .
Because HDMI is electrically compatible with the CEA-861 signals used  by  digital visual interface ( DVI ) ,  no  signal conversion is necessary , nor  is  there a loss of video quality when a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used .
As an uncompressed CEA-861 connection  ,  HDMI  is  independent of the various digital television standards used by individual devices , such as  atsc  and DVB , as these are encapsulations of compressed MPEG video streams ( which can  be  decoded  और  output as an uncompressed video stream on  hdmi  ) .
Production of consumer HDMI products started in late 2003 .
In  यूरोपीय   either  DVI-HDCP or HDMI  is  included in the HD ready in-store  labeling  specification for TV sets for HDTV , formulated by  eicta   साथ  SES Astra in 2005 .
HDMI began to appear on consumer HDTV  camcorders  and digital still cameras in 2006 .
As of January 8 , 2013 , which is ten years  बाद  the release  of  the  पहला  HDMI specification , over 3 billion HDMI devices have shipped since the launch of the HDMI standard .
Bree Van de Kamp ( née Mason ; also  ज्ञात  in the series as Bree Hodge and Bree Weston ) is a fictional character and one of the four  protagonists  on the ABC television series Desperate Housewives .
She is  निभाई  by actress Marcia Cross , who has received multiple awards and nominations for her portrayal , including an Emmy Award nomination , three Golden Globe Award nominations , and two  स्क्रीन  Actors Guild Awards .
Cross 's portrayal of Bree has been widely praised by critics and  प्रशंसक  .
Cross originally auditioned for the role of Mary Alice Young , but series creator Marc Cherry thought she was better suited  लिये  the role of Bree .
Dana Delany , who eventually was cast as Katherine  mayfair  , was originally chosen for the role but turned it down , saying it was too similar to her role in Pasadena .
ब्री  's main struggle throughout  the  series has been her attempts to maintain a perfect life despite various obstacles such as widowhood , divorce , and alcoholism hindering her .
She has been married three  टाइम्स  ; to Rex Van de Kamp ( Steven Culp ) , Orson Hodge ( Kyle MacLachlan ) and Trip Weston ( Scott Bakula ) .
See also the Town  of  Algoma in Winnebago  काउंटी  , Wisconsin .
See also Algoma ( Disambiguation ) .
Algoma  is  a city in Kewaunee County  in   the  U.S. state of Wisconsin .
The population was 3,167 at the 2010 census .
Algoma is part of the Green Bay Metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय  Area .
The Hangover  भाग  II is a 2011 American comedy film  उत्पादित  by Legendary Pictures and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures .
It is the sequel  to  2009 's The Hangover and the second film in The Hangover franchise  .
Todd Phillips  निर्देशित  the film in addition to co-authoring the script  साथ  Craig  mazin  , and Scot Armstrong .
The film stars Bradley Cooper , Ed  helms  , Zach Galifianakis , Ken Jeong , Jeffrey Tambor , Justin Bartha and Paul Giamatti .
The Hangover Part II tells the  स्टोरी   of  Phil , Stu , Alan , and Doug as they travel to Thailand for Stu 's wedding .
After the bachelor  पार्टी  in Las Vegas , Stu takes no chances  और  opts for a  सुरक्षित  , subdued pre-wedding brunch .
However , things do  नहीं  go  as  planned , resulting in another bad hangover with no memories of the  पिछला  night .
Development of The Hangover Part II began in April 2009 , two months before The Hangover was released  .
The principal actors were cast in March 2010 to reprise their roles from the  पहला  film .
Production began in October 2010 , in Ontario ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , before moving on location in Thailand .
The film was released on May 26 , 2011 and , despite  receiving  mostly negative reviews from critics , it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy  दौरान  its theatrical run .
A third film is set for on May 24 , 2013  .
Young Man Among Roses , portrait miniature by Nicholas  hilliard  , 1588  ,  V & A .
Believed to be the Earl of Essex
The Ditchley Portrait of Elizabeth I by the foreign Marcus Gheeraerts the Younger , c.1592
The English Renaissance was a cultural and  कलाकारी   गति  in England dating from the late 15th and early 16th centuries to the early 17th century .
It is associated with the pan-European  पुनर्जागरण  that is usually regarded as beginning in  इटली  in  the  late 14th century .
Like most of northern Europe , England saw little of these developments until more than a century later .
The beginning of the English Renaissance is often taken , as a convenience , to be 1485 , when the Battle of Bosworth Field ended the Wars of the Roses and inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty .
Renaissance style and ideas , however , were slow  in  penetrating England  ,  and the Elizabethan era in the second half of the 16th century is usually regarded as the height of the English Renaissance .
Elizabeth Ann Bloomer Warren `` Betty '' Ford (  अप्रैल  8 , 1918 – July 8 , 2011 ) , was First  महिला  of the United States from  1974  to 1977 during the presidency of her husband Gerald Ford .
As First Lady , she was active in social policy and created precedents as a politically active presidential wife .
Throughout her husband 's term in office  ,  she maintained high approval ratings despite opposition from  कुछ  conservative Republicans who objected to her more moderate and liberal positions on social issues .
Ford was noted for raising breast cancer awareness following her 1974 mastectomy and was a  passionate  supporter of , and activist for ,  the  Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ) .
Pro-choice on abortion and  a  leader in the Women 's  गति  , she gained fame as one of the most candid first ladies in history  ,  commenting on every hot-button issue of the time , including feminism , equal pay , the  era  ,  sex  , drugs , abortion , and gun control .
She also  उठाया  awareness of addiction  जब  she announced her long-running battle with alcoholism in the 1970s .
Following her White House years , she continued to lobby for  the  ERA and remained active in the feminist movement .
She was the founder , and served as the first  कुर्सी  of the board of directors , of the Betty Ford Center  लिये  substance abuse and addiction and is a recipient of the  congressional  Gold Medal ( co-presentation with her husband , Gerald R. Ford , October 21 , 1998 ) and the  अध्यक्षीय  Medal  of  Freedom ( alone , presented 1991 , by George H. W. Bush ) .
platelet  endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM-1 ) also known as cluster of differentiation 31 (  cd31  ) is a protein that in human is encoded  by  the PECAM1 gene  मिला  on chromosome 17 .
pecam-1  plays  a  key role in removing  aged  neutrophils from the body .
Jessica Rafalowski  ,  Miss Florida USA 2008
Jenna Edwards , Miss Florida USA 2007
Melissa Witek , Miss Florida USA 2005
Kristen Berset , Miss Florida USA 2004
The  मिस  Florida USA competition is the pageant that selects the representative for the state  फ्लोरिडा  in the Miss USA pageant .
While Florida has been successful in  शर्तें  of runners-up , finalists and semi-finalists , the state  रै  never won the Miss USA  pageant  , although Cheryl Patton became Miss  यूएसए  after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe .
Florida 's best  परिणाम  were during the mid-1960s to mid-1970s .
Their most recent  फाइनलिस्ट  was Lissette Garcia who placed  in  the top 16 in 2011 .
Two former Miss Florida Teen USA titleholders have won this competition ,  और  three titleholders have also competed at Miss America .
The  वर्तमान   titleholder  is Michelle Aguirre of Hialeah .
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the period of  the  history of the part of Britain that became known as England , lasting from  the  end of Roman occupation and establishment of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the 5th century until the Norman conquest of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror .
Anglo-Saxon is a general term  referring  to the Germanic peoples who came to Britain during the 5th  और  6th centuries  ,  including Angles  ,  Saxons , Frisii , and Jutes .
the  term also refers  to  the language spoken at the time in England , which is now called Old English , and to the culture of the era ,  जिससे  has long attracted popular and scholarly attention .
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the Heptarchy , the kingdoms of Northumbria , Mercia  ,  East Anglia , Essex  ,  Kent , Sussex , and Wessex .
In terms of religion  the  kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon paganism during the early period , but  परिवर्तित  to Christianity during the 7th century .
Paganism had a final stronghold in a period of Mercian hegemony  दौरान  the 640s , ending with  the  death of Penda of Mercia  in  655 .
Facing the threat of Viking invasions  ,  the House of Wessex became  प्रबल  during the 9th century , under the rule of Alfred the Great .
During the 10th century , the individual kingdoms  एकीकृत  under the rule of Wessex into the Kingdom of England , which stood opposed to the Danelaw , the Viking kingdoms  स्थापित  from  the  9th century in the north and east of England .
The Kingdom  of  England fell in the Viking invasion from Denmark in 1013 and was ruled by  the  House of  डेनमार्क  until  1042  , when the  anglo-saxon  House of Wessex was restored .
The  पिछला  Anglo-Saxon king , Harold Godwinson , was killed in 1066 at the Battle  of   हास्टिंग्स  .
Lighting a traditional red brick John Ross Jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a preparation of salmon , typically a fillet that has been cured and  hot  or cold smoked .
Due  to  its  मध्यम  high price , smoked salmon  is  considered a delicacy .
Although the term lox is sometimes  लागू   to  smoked salmon ,  वे  are different products .
View of defibrillator electrode position and placement .
Defibrillation is a common treatment for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias , ventricular fibrillation , and pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical  उर्जा  to the  प्रभावित   दिल  with a device called  a  defibrillator .
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle , terminates the dysrhythmia , and allows normal sinus  लय  to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker , in the sinoatrial node of the heart .
Defibrillators  can  be external , transvenous ,  or   implanted  , depending on the type  of  device used or needed .
कुछ  external units , known as automated external  defibrillators  ( AEDs  )  , automate the diagnosis of  treatable  rhythms , meaning that lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little , or in some cases no training at all .
Gabrielle `` Coco '' Bonheur Chanel ( August 19 , 1883  –  January 10 , 1971 )  थी  a French fashion designer and founder of the Chanel brand .
She was the only fashion designer to appear on Time magazine  's  list of the 100 most influential people of the 20th  सदी  .
Along with Paul Poiret , Chanel was credited with liberating women  इससे  the constraints of the  ``  corseted silhouette '' and  popularizing  the  स्वीकृति  of a sportive , casual chic as the feminine standard in the post-  संसार  War I era .
A prolific fashion creator , Chanel 's influence extended beyond  couture  clothing .
Her design aesthetic was realized in jewelry , handbags , and fragrance .
Her signature scent , Chanel No  .  5 , has become an iconic product .
चैनल  was known for her lifelong  determination  , ambition and  उर्जा  which she applied to her professional and social  जीवन  .
She achieved both success as  a  businesswoman and social prominence thanks to the connections she  बना  through her work .
These  शामिल  many artists and craftspeople to whom she became a patron .
However , Chanel 's highly competitive ,  opportunistic  personality led her to make questionable life  चुनाव  which have generated controversy around her reputation , particularly her behaviour  दौरान  the German occupation of France in World War  ii  .
Allied Mills flour mill on the banks of the Manchester Ship Canal
A  gristmill  ( also : grist mill , corn mill or flour mill  )  grinds grain into flour .
The term can refer to both the grinding mechanism and the building that holds  it  .
Romania ( ; dated spellings Roumania and  rumania  ; ) is a  देश  located at  the  intersection of Central and Southeastern  यूरोपीय  , bordering on the Black Sea .
Romania shares a border  साथ   हंगेरियाई   और  Serbia to the west , Ukraine and Moldova to the northeast and  ईस्ट  , and Bulgaria to the  दक्षिण  .
At , Romania is the eighth largest country of the European Union  by  area , and has the seventh largest population of the  यूरोपीय  Union with more than 19 million people  .
Its capital and biggest city is Bucharest ,  the  11th largest city in the EU .
The United  principalities  emerged when the territories of Moldavia and Wallachia were united under Prince Alexander Ioan Cuza in 1859  .
In 1866 Prince Karl of  hohenzollern-sigmaringen   थी  called to  the  throne as the  सत्ताधारी  Prince of the Romanian Principate  और  in 1881 he  थी  finally crowned as King Carol I the first monarch of the Kingdom of Romania .
Independence from  the  Ottoman  साम्राज्य  was declared on 9 May 1877 , and was internationally recognized the following year .
At the end of World War I , Transylvania , Bukovina and Bessarabia united with the Kingdom of Romania .
World War II gave  कारण  to the rise of a military dictatorship in Romania under fascist General Ion Antonescu  ,  who chose to fight on the side of the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944 .
After his removal , Romania switched sides in 1944 and  joined  the Allies .
by  the end of  the  war , some formerly Romanian northeastern  territories  were occupied by the Soviet Union ,  साथ  Red  फौज   इकाई  stationed on Romanian soil .
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a People 's Republic ( 1947-1965 ) and a member of the  वॉरसॉ  Pact .
in  1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu became General Secretary of the  रोमानियाई  Communist  पार्टी  , and the harsh austerity measures , political repression , and cult of personality he implemented led  to  the Socialist Republic of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) becoming the most Stalinist police state in the Eastern bloc .
Eventually his authoritarian government  थी  toppled in December  1989  during the Romanian Revolution of 1989 .
With the fall of the Iron Curtain ,  रोमानिया   began  its  परिवर्तन  towards democracy and a capitalist market economy .
बाद  a decade of post-revolution economic problems and living-standards decline , extensive reforms fostered economic recovery .
as  of 2010  ,  Romania is an upper-middle-income country with a  ऊँची  human development index  .
Romania joined NATO on 29 March 2004 ,  और  the European Union on 1 January 2007 .
it  is also  a  member of the : Latin Union , Francophonie , OSCE , WTO , BSEC , United  राष्ट्र  ,  इत्यादि  .
Today , Romania is a unitary semi-presidential republic , in which the executive branch  consists  of the President and the Government .
`` Ancient '' redirects here .
For other uses , see Antiquity ( disambiguation ) .
The  टाइम्स   पहले  writing belong either to protohistory  or  to prehistory .
khafre  's  पिरामिड  ( 4th dynasty ) and Great Sphinx of  गीज़ा  ( c.  2500  BC or perhaps earlier )
Ancient history is the study of the written past from the beginning of  अंकित  human history to  the  Early Middle Ages .
The span of  अंकित  history is roughly 5,000 years , with Cuneiform script  ,  the oldest  खोजा   रूप  of coherent writing , from  the  protoliterate period around the 30th century BC .
इस  is the beginning of history  ,  as opposed to prehistory , according to the definition used by most historians .
The term classical antiquity is often used to refer to history in the Old  संसार  from the beginning of recorded Greek  इतिहास  in 776 BC ( First Olympiad ) .
This  roughly  coincides with the  परंपरागत  date of the founding of Rome in 753 BC , the beginning of the history of ancient Rome , and the beginning of the Archaic period in Ancient Greece .
Although the ending  तिथि  of ancient history is disputed , some Western scholars use  the  fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476  ad   ,  the closure of the Platonic Academy in 529 AD , the death of the  सम्राट  Justinian I , the coming of Islam or the rise of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history .
In India , the period includes  the  early period of the  मध्य  Kingdoms , and , in  चीन  , the time up to the Qin Dynasty is included .
Methylcobalamin ( shown  )  is a form of vitamin B12 .
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12 , occurring as  अंधेरा   रेड  crystals that  freely  form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water  .
Vitamin B12  ,  vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12 , also called cobalamin ,  is  a water-soluble vitamin with a key role in the normal functioning of the brain  और   बेचैन  system , and for the formation of  रक्त  .
It is  एक   of  the eight B vitamins .
It is  सामान्यतः  involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body ,  विशेषकर  affecting DNA synthesis and regulation , but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production .
Neither fungi , plants , nor animals are capable of producing  विटामिन  B12 .
Only bacteria and archaea have the  एंजाइमों  required  लिये  its synthesis , although many foods are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis .
the  vitamin is the largest  और  most structurally  जटिल  vitamin and can be produced industrially only through  बैक्टीरियल  fermentation-synthesis .
Vitamin B12 consists of a class  of  chemically related compounds (  vitamers  )  ,  all of which have vitamin activity .
It contains the biochemically  विरल  element cobalt .
Biosynthesis of the  मौलिक  structure of the vitamin  is  accomplished only by bacteria ( which usually  उपज  hydroxocobalamin ) , but conversion between different forms of  the  vitamin can be accomplished in  the   इंसान   देह  .
A common semi-synthetic  रूप  of the vitamin , cyanocobalamin , does not occur in nature , but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements ,  और   as  a food additive , because of its stability and lower production  लागत  .
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin ,  leaving  behind  the  cyanide , albeit  in   minimal  concentration .
More recently  ,  hydroxocobalamin ,  methylcobalamin  , and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological products  और  food  पूरक  .
The extra utility of  ये  is currently  debated  .
Vitamin B12 was discovered from  इसके   संबंध  to the disease  घातक  anemia , which is an  असंक्राम्य   बीमारी  in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor  हैं  destroyed .
Intrinsic factor is  निर्णायक  for the normal absorption of B12 , so a lack of intrinsic factor , as seen in pernicious anemia  ,  causes a vitamin B12  कमियां  .
Many other  subtler  kinds of vitamin  b12  deficiency and their biochemical effects have since been elucidated .
The Roman Empire ( ) was  the  post- Republican period  of  the ancient Roman civilization , characterised by an  निरंकुश   रूप  of government and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe , Africa , and Asia .
The 500-year-old Roman Republic , which preceded it , had been destabilized through a series of civil wars  .
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire , including Julius  सीज़र  's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of  actium  ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ) .
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ) .
It reached  इसके  greatest expanse during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117  ad  ) .
In the  3rd   सदी  , the Empire  underwent  a crisis that threatened its  अस्तित्व  , but was reunified and stabilized  अंतर्गत  the emperors Aurelian  और  Diocletian .
Christians rose to power in the 4th  सदी   ,  during which time a system of dual rule was  विकसित  in the Latin West and Greek East .
After the collapse of central government in the  वेस्ट  in the 5th century  ,  the eastern half continued as what would later  be  known as the  बीज़ान्टिन  Empire .
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long  सहनशीलता  , the institutions and culture of Rome had  a  profound and lasting influence on the development of language , religion  ,  architecture , philosophy , law ,  और  forms of government in  the  territory it governed ,  विशेषकर  Europe , and by means  of  European expansionism  throughout  the modern world .
Total body surface area ( TBSA ) is an assessment measure of burns of  the  skin .
In adults , the `` rule of nines '' is used to determine the total percentage of area burned for each major section of the body  .
In some cases , the burns may cover more than one body part , or may  नहीं  fully  कवर  such a part ; in these  मामले  , burns are measured by using the  casualty  's palm as a reference point for 1 % of the  देह  .
For children and infants , the Lund-Browder chart is used to assess the burned body surface area .
Different percentages are  प्रयुक्त   क्युकी  the ratio of  the  combined surface area of the head and neck to the surface area of the limbs  is  typically larger in children than  कि  of an  वयस्क  .
Typical values for common groups of humans follow .
(  due  to rounding ,  मान   may  not add to 100 % . )
World infant mortality rates by five years averages in 2008 .
This is a list of countries by infant mortality rate .
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino ( born June  26  ,  1975  ) , better known by  उसके  stage name  kj-52  , is a Christian rapper from Tampa , Florida .
The `` KJ '' part of his name refers to his  बूढ़ा  rap alias , `` King J. Mac  ,   ''  a name which he later described in one  of  his podcasts as `` horribly cheesy . ''
`` 52 '' , which is pronounced ``  पाँच  two '' , not `` fifty-two '' , is a  सन्दर्भ  to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude with five loaves and two fish ,  जिससे  is  भी  sung about in his song  ``  Push Up '' from The Yearbook and in the `` KJ Five Two  ''  on  it  's Pronounced 'Five Two .
He  थी  awarded the Rap/Hip Hop Recorded Song of the Year for `` Never Look Away  ''  and Rap/Hip Hop Album of the Year at the GMA Dove Awards of 2007 .
On July 28 , 2009 , KJ-52 released `` End of My Rope '' , which is the  पहला  single for  उसके  album Five-Two Television  .
His song `` Dear Slim '' is based on Eminem  's  song `` Stan `` and is a sort of personal  संदेश  from KJ-52 to Eminem .
the  degree symbol ( ° ) is a typographical symbol that is used , among other things , to represent degrees of arc ( e.g . in geographic coordinate systems ) , hours ( in the medical field ) , or degrees of temperature .
the   प्रतीक  consists of a small raised circle , historically a zero glyph .
in  Unicode it is encoded at .
This is a list of roots , suffixes , and prefixes used in medical terminology , their meanings , and their etymology .
There are a few rules when using medical roots  .
Firstly , prefixes and suffixes , primarily in Greek , but also in  लैटिन  , have a droppable -o- .
As a general rule  ,  this -o- almost  सदा   अधिनियमों  as a joint-stem to connect two consonantal roots , e.g . arthr-  +  -o- +  logy  = arthrology .
But generally , the -o- is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g .  arthr-  + itis = arthritis , instead of  arthr-o-itis  .
Secondly , medical roots  generally  go together according to language : Greek  prefixes  go with Greek suffixes  और  Latin prefixes with Latin suffixes .
Although international  वैज्ञानिक  vocabulary is not stringent about segregating combining forms of  अलग  languages  ,  it is  advisable   जब  coining new words not to mix different lingual roots .
Stomach cancer , or gastric cancer , refers to cancer  arising   इससे  any  भाग  of the stomach .
Stomach cancer causes about 800,000 deaths worldwide per year .
Prognosis is  ग़रीब  ( 5-year survival < 5 to 15 % ) because most patients present with advanced disease .
Sara Lynn  इवांस  (  born  February 5 , 1971 ) is an American country singer and  songwriter  .
For her entire career , she has been signed  to  RCA Records Nashville .
इवांस  ' debut ,  तीन  Chords and the Truth , did not produce a Top 40 hit on  the  Hot Country Songs charts .
She followed this up  साथ  No Place That Far  (  1998 ) , Born to Fly ( 2000 ) , Restless ( 2003 ) and Real Fine Place ( 2005 ) .
No Place That Far received a gold certification from the Recording Industry Association of America  (  RIAA ) ,  जबकि  the other three albums all were certified platinum .
These discs  शामिल  the number 1  singles  ``  no  Place That Far `` ,  ``  Born to Fly `` , `` Suds in the  बाल्टी  `` and `` A  रियल  Fine  प्लेस  to Start `` ,  प्लस  the top 10 hits `` I Could Not Ask for More `` ( a cover  of   the  Edwin  मैक्केन  song ) , `` I  रखना  Looking `` , `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin ' `` .
Her 2007 Greatest Hits included the top 15 hits `` You 'll  सदा  Be  my  Baby `` and `` As If `` .
Stronger ( 2011 ) included her fifth number 1 hit , `` A Little Bit Stronger `` , which was co-written by Hillary Scott of Lady Antebellum .
Evans has  भी  won one award each from Billboard , the Academy of Country Music  ,  Country Music Association , Broadcast Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a Dove Award .
The world 's principal religions and spiritual traditions may be classified into a small  क्रमांक  of major groups , although this is by no means a  वर्दी  practice .
This theory began in the 18th century with the goal of recognizing the relative levels of civility in societies .
Berliners watching a C-54 land  at  Tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
the  Berlin blockade ( 24 June 1948 – 12 May 1949 ) was one of the first major international crises of the Cold War .
During the multinational occupation of post–World War II Germany , the Soviet Union blocked the Western Allies ' railway , road  ,  and canal access to the sectors of Berlin under Allied control .
Their aim was to  फ़ोर्स  the western powers to allow the  सोवियत  zone to  प्रारंभ  supplying Berlin with food and  ईंधन  , thereby giving the Soviets practical  कंट्रोल  over the entire city .
in  response , the Western Allies organized the Berlin airlift to carry supplies to the people in West Berlin .
aircrews  from the United States Air Force  ,  the British  royal   एयर  Force  ,  the Royal Australian Air Force , the Royal Canadian Air Force , the Royal  नई  Zealand Air Force , and the South African Air Force flew over 200,000  फ़्लाइट  in one year , providing up to 4700 tons of daily necessities such as fuel  और   खाना  to  the  Berliners .
By the spring of 1949  ,  the  प्रयत्न  was clearly succeeding and , by April , the airlift was  delivering  more cargo than had previously  महरूम  transported into the city by  रेल   .
The success of the Berlin Airlift brought  शर्मिंदगी  to the Soviets  जो  had refused to believe it could make a difference .
The blockade was lifted in May 1949  और  resulted  in  the creation of  दो  separate German states .
The Federal Republic of Germany ( West  जर्मनी  ) and the  जर्मनी  Democratic Republic  (  East Germany ) split up Berlin .
In remembrance of the  एयरलिफ्ट  , three  एयरपोर्ट  in the former western  zones  of  the  city served  as  the primary gateways  to  Germany for another fifty years .
The euro sign  ;   logotype  and handwritten .
The euro sign is  the  currency sign used for the euro , the official currency of  the  Eurozone in the European  संघ  ( EU ) .
the  design was presented to the public by the European Commission on 12 December 1996 .
The international three-letter code ( according to ISO standard ISO 4217 ) for the euro is EUR .
In  युनिकोड  it is encoded at  .
In English , the sign precedes the  मान  .
In some styleguides , but not others ,  the  euro sign is unspaced .
Mate ( , ; sometimes also  spelled  maté ) , also known as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón  (  ) , is  a  traditional South American infused drink , particularly in Argentina , Uruguay , Paraguay and the southern states of Brazil  और  to a  lesser  degree in south of Chile ,  the  Bolivian Chaco , Syria and Lebanon .
It is prepared from steeping dried  पत्ते  of yerba mate (  llex  paraguariensis , known  in  Portuguese  as  erva-mate ) in hot water .
Mate  is  served with a metal straw from a  साझा  hollow calabash  करेले  .
The straw  is  called a  bombilla  in some Latin American countries , a  bomba  in Portuguese , and a bombija or , more generally ,  a  masassa ( type of straw ) in Arabic  .
The straw is traditionally made of silver .
Modern , commercially available straws are typically made of nickel silver , called Alpaca ; stainless steel , or hollow-stemmed cane .
The gourd  is  known as a mate or a guampa ; while in Brazil , it has the specific name of cuia , or also cabaça ( the name for Indigenous-influenced  calabash  gourds  in  other regions of Brazil , still  प्रयुक्त  for general food and drink in remote regions ) .
Even if the water is supplied from a modern thermos  ,  the  infusion  is traditionally drunk from mates or cuias .
As with other brewed herbs , yerba mate leaves are dried , chopped ,  और  ground into a powdery mixture called yerba  .
The bombilla acts as both a straw and a sieve .
the  submerged end is flared , with small  छेद   or  slots that  allow  the brewed liquid in , but block the  चंकी  matter that makes up much of the mixture  .
A modern  bombilla  design  उपयोग  a straight tube with holes , or  वसन्त   स्लीव  to act as a  sieve  .
`` Tea-bag '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have been on the market in Argentina , Paraguay and Uruguay for many years under  ऐसे  trade names as `` Taragüí  vitality  '' in Argentina , `` Pajarito '' and ``  kurupí  ''  in  Paraguay , and  in  Brazil  अंतर्गत  the  नाम  `` Mate Leão '' .
This is considered a completely different drink  .
It is never drunk from cuias or called chimarrão , nor is it associated with the gaucho/gaúcho culture .
The automotive  उद्योग  is a term that covers a wide range of  कंपनियाँ  and organisations  शामिल   in  the  डिज़ाइन  , development , manufacture , marketing , and selling of motor vehicles , towed  वाहनों  , motorcycles and mopeds .
It is one of the  संसार  's most  महत्वपूर्ण  economic sectors by revenue .
The term automotive industry usually does not include  उद्योग  dedicated to the maintenance of automobiles following delivery to the end-user  ,  such as repair shops and motor fuel filling stations .
the  term automotive  थी  created from Greek  autos   (  self  )  , and Latin motivus ( of motion ) to  represent  any form of self-powered vehicle .
This  पद   थी  proposed  by  SAE member Elmer Sperry  .
David  माइकल  `` Dave '' Bautista  ,   jr.  ( born January 18 , 1969 ) , is an  अमरीकी  mixed martial artist , bodybuilder , actor , and former  पेशेवर  wrestler best known for his time in World Wrestling  entertainment  competing under the ring name Batista .
In WWE , he became a six-time world champion , winning the  संसार  Heavyweight Championship four times , and the  डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई  Championship two times .
He is the longest-reigning World Heavyweight Champion in WWE history .
In addition to these championships , Batista has won  the  World Tag Team Championship three times  (  twice with Ric Flair and once with John Cena ) and the  डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई  Tag Team  चैंपियनशिप  once ( with Rey Mysterio ) .
Batista was also the winner of the 2005 Royal Rumble match and went on to headline WrestleMania 21 , one of the top five highest-grossing pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history .
After  trying  out at World Championship  कुश्ती  's Power  संयंत्र  , Batista signed a contract with the WWF in 2000 and  थी  sent to its developmental territory , Ohio Valley Wrestling ( OVW ) , where he won the OVW Heavyweight Championship .
In August 2012 , Bautista signed a contract with Classic Entertainment & Sports to fight in mixed martial arts .
He won his MMA debut  on  October 6 , 2012 , defeating Vince Lucero via TKO in the first round .
Henry T. Thomas Sampson , Jr. ( born in Jackson , Mississippi in  1934  ) is an African-American inventor  .
He  ग्रैजुएट  from  ऊँची  school in  1951  from Lanier  ऊँची  School in Jackson ,  मिसिसिपी  .
He then  attended  Morehouse College for a couple  of  years before transferring to Purdue  विश्वविद्यालयों  where he  became  a member of the Omega  psi  Phi fraternity .
He received a Bachelor 's degree in science from Purdue University in 1956 .
He graduated with an MS degree in engineering from the University of California , Los Angeles in  1961  .
Sampson also received his MS in Nuclear  अभियान्त्रिकी  from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 1965 , and his PhD in 1967  .
He is the first African American to earn a Ph.D.in Nuclear Engineering in the United States .
Some of his  accomplishments  include being  a   सदस्य  of the  संयुक्त  States Navy between the years 1962 and 1964 and  कमाई  an Atomic Energy Commission honor  between  1964 and 1967 .
बाद  he was awarded the Black Image Award from Aerospace Corporation  in  1982 .
He was awarded the Blacks in Engineering , Applied Science Award , and prize for education , by the Los Angeles Council of Black Professional Engineers in 1983 .
In June 2007 , Sampson  थी  married to Laura Howzell Young in St.  थामस  , U.S. Virgin Islands .
Young-Sampson is a professor in the College of Education at California State  विश्वविद्यालयों  San  bernardino  .
Robert  लेन  Gibbs ( born March 29 , 1971 ) is a senior campaign adviser for US President Barack  ओबामा  .
Previously , he was  the  28th White House  दबायें  Secretary .
Gibbs was the  संचार  director for then- U.S . Senator Obama and his 2008 presidential campaign .
Gibbs  ,  who has worked with Obama  चूंकि  2004 , was press secretary  of  John Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has previously specialized in Senate campaigns , having  परोसा  as communications director for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and for  चार  individual Senate campaigns , including those of  ओबामा  in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998 .
Gibbs  थी  also the press secretary of Representative Bob Etheridge .
On November 22 , 2008 , Gibbs was announced as the press secretary of the  ओबामा  administration .
He assumed  the  role of press secretary on January  20  , 2009 , and gave his first official briefing  on  January 22 .
On January 5 ,  2011  , Gibbs  घोषित  that he would leave the White House to become an outside adviser to the administration .
He left on  फ़रवरी  11 , 2011 .
On February  12  ,  2013  , it was announced that Gibbs had been hired as a contributor for cable-news  चैनल  MSNBC .
His first appearance was  on  the same night prior to the 2013 State Of The Union Address .
Armando Pérez (  born   जनवरी  15 , 1981 ) , better known  by  his stage name Pitbull , is an American rapper , songwriter  ,  and record producer .
His first recorded performance  थी  from the Lil Jon album Kings of Crunk in 2002 .
In  2004  , he  released   उसके  debut album titled M.I.A.M.I . ( short for Money Is A Major Issue ) under TVT  रिकॉर्ड  .
चूंकि  then , he has released three other albums  अंतर्गत   the  label : El Mariel in 2006 , The Boatlift  in  2007 , and  ग्रह  Pit  in   2011   .
He released Rebelution in 2009 , which included singles ``  i  Know You Want Me ( Calle Ocho )  ``  and `` Krazy ``  .
The latter peaked at  no  . 30 on the Hot 100 and No . 11 on the Hot Rap Tracks charts while `` I Know You Want Me  ''  peaked at No . 2 on the  hot   100  and peaked within the top ten spots of charts in the UK , Canada , Italy , and the Netherlands  .
The song reached No . 1 in France and the European Hot 100 on the week ending August 29 , 2009 according to Billboard magazine  .
He later signed with Polo Grounds Music through Sony Music and created his own label Mr. 305 Inc .
Another single from Rebelution was `` Hotel Room Service `` , which peaked at No . 8 on the Hot 100 .
Rebelution went on to sell  over  7.5 million worldwide digital singles and albums  संयुक्त  .
Nevertheless , he dropped a smash called  ``  Give Me Everything '' which reached # 1 worldwide  ,  and featured artists Ne-yo , Nayer , and Afrojack .
He has also  performed  as a featured artist  in  the remixes of many other hit songs , like Tik Tok , Scream & Shout , Lo Hecho  esta  Hecho , Bad , Papi ,  ईंट  , How Low , Tonight ( I 'm Lovin ' You ) , Video Phone , Over To You Now  और  Bumpy Ride .
Pérez is also the host  of  his own  spanish-language   कार्यक्रम  on the cable channel Mun2 titled La Esquina ( Spanish for The  कोने  ) .
In 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'Diddy ' Combs  co-founded  Bad Boy Latino , a subsidiary  of  Combs ' Bad Boy Records  लेबल  .
It primarily focuses on Latin hip hop , Latin soul , Latin pop and other Tropical music , and has offices in  नई  York and Miami , Florida .
साथ  with co-founding it , Pérez currently heads the A & R  प्रभाग  of the label .
Pérez has become a product endorser , representing alongside Drake , Rihanna , and  trey  Songz the “So Kodak” campaign for the Kodak brand and embarking on a partnership  साथ  the soft drink giant Dr  pepper   as  part of the campaign “ Vida 23 ” for which he  अंकित  the song specifically featured  on  his album Armando .
Pitbull also announced he has become the spokesperson for Voli Vodka , in which he holds a majority equity stake , and Budweiser has chosen Pitbull  to  promote its Bud Light line of beer .
The commercials currently highlight Pitbull dancing and gyrating on stage holding up a bottle of Bud Light  .
Pitbull has also purchased an equity stake in Miami Subs Pizza and Grill .
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ) , also known as All Hallows ' Eve , is a yearly celebration  observed  in a number of countries on October 31 , the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating  the  triduum of Hallowmas .
According to many scholars , All Hallows ' Eve is a  christianised  feast originally influenced by western European harvest festivals , and festivals of the  मुर्दे   साथ  possible pagan roots ,  विशेषकर   the  Celtic Samhain .
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) , attending costume parties , carving pumpkins  into  jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires , apple bobbing , visiting haunted attractions  ,  playing pranks , telling scary stories , and watching horror films .
Freedom of speech is the political right  to  communicate one  's  opinions and ideas using one 's body and property to  anyone  who is willing to receive them .
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously , but includes any act of  seeking  , receiving and imparting information or ideas , regardless of the medium used .
In practice ,  the  right to freedom of speech  is  not absolute in any country  और  the right is  commonly   विषय  to limitations , as  साथ  libel  ,  slander , obscenity , sedition ( including , for  उदाहरण  inciting ethnic hatred  )  , copyright violation  ,  revelation of information that is classified or otherwise .
The right  to  freedom of expression is recognized  as   a  human right under Article 19 of  the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in international human rights law  in  the International Covenant on Civil  और  Political Rights (  iccpr  ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ;  इस  right shall include freedom to seek  ,  receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds , regardless of frontiers , either orally , in writing or in print , in the form of art , or through any other media of his choice ''  .
Article 19 goes on to  कह  that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities ``  और  may `` therefore be subject to certain restrictions '' when necessary `` [ f  ]  or  आदर  of the rights or reputation of others ''  or  `` [  f  ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of  पब्लिक   स्वास्थ्य  or  नैतिकता  '' .
स्वतंत्रता   of   वाक  may be  legally  curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense  ,  such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 .
Sydney Harbour from  the  air , showing the Opera House , the CBD , Circular  quay   ,  the Bridge , the Parramatta River , North  सिडनी  and Kirribilli in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through arch bridge across Sydney Harbour that carries rail , vehicular , bicycle and pedestrian traffic between  the  Sydney central business district (  सीबीडी  ) and the  उत्तर  Shore .
The dramatic view of  the  bridge , the harbour ,  और  the nearby Sydney Opera House  is   an   iconic  image of Sydney , New  दक्षिण  Wales , and Australia  .
The bridge is  nicknamed  `` The Coathanger '' because of its arch-based design .
Under the directions of Dr J.J.C . Bradfield of  the  NSW Department of Public Works , the bridge was designed and built by British firm Dorman Long and Co Ltd of Middlesbrough and opened in  1932  .
The bridge 's design was influenced by the Hell Gate Bridge in New York .
It was the world 's widest long-span bridge , at 48.8 meters ( 160 feet ) wide , until construction of the new Port Mann  सेतु  in Vancouver .
It is also the fifth longest  spanning-arch   सेतु  in  the  world , and  it  is the tallest steel arch bridge , measuring from top to  जल   स्तर   .
Until 1967 the Harbour Bridge was Sydney 's tallest structure .
The Hawaii hotspot is a volcanic hotspot located near the namesake Hawaiian Islands , in the northern Pacific Ocean .
One of the most well-known and heavily studied hotspots in the world , the Hawaii plume is responsible for the creation of the  हवाई  – Emperor seamount chain , an over 5,800 kilometres ( 3,600 mi  )  long chain of volcanoes , four of which are active , two of which are dormant , and more than 123 of which are extinct  ,  many having  चूंकि  been ground beneath  the  waves by erosion as seamounts and atolls .
The chain extends  इससे  south of the island of Hawaii to  the  edge  of  the Aleutian Trench , near the eastern edge of Russia .
जबकि  most volcanoes  हैं  created by geological activity at tectonic plate boundaries , the Hawaii  हॉटस्पॉट  is located far from nearby plate  सीमाएँ  ; the classic hotspot  सिद्धान्त  , first proposed in 1963 by John Tuzo Wilson ,  proposes  that a single , fixed mantle plume builds volcanoes that then , cut off from their  सोर्स  by the movement of the Pacific Plate  ,  become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over  लाखो  of years .
According to this theory , the nearly  60°  bend separating the  सम्राट   और  Hawaiian segments of  the  chain was caused by a sudden shift in the movement of the Pacific Plate  .
In 2003 , fresh investigations  of  this  irregularity  led to  the  proposal of a mobile hotspot theory , suggesting that hotspots  हैं   मोबाईल  , not fixed  ,  and that the 47 million year old bend was caused by a shift in the  हॉटस्पॉट  's motion rather than  the  plate 's .
Ancient Hawaiians were the first  to  recognize the increasing age and weathered state of the volcanoes  to  the north as they progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands .
The volatile state of the Hawaiian volcanoes  और  their constant battle  साथ  the sea was  a  major element in Hawaiian mythology , embodied in Pele , the deity  of  volcanoes .
After the arrival of Europeans on the island ,  in  1880-1881 James Dwight Dana directed the  पहला  formal geological  पढ़ाई   of  the hotspot 's volcanics , confirming  the  relationship long observed by the  natives  .
1912 marked  the  founding of the Hawaiian  ज्वालामुखी  Observatory by volcanologist Thomas  jaggar  , initiating continuous scientific  अवलोकन  of the islands .
In  the  1970s , a mapping project was initiated to gain more information  परिचय  the complex geology of Hawaii 's  seafloor  .
The hotspot  रै  since been tomographically  imaged  , showing it to be wide and up to  गहन  , and olivine and garnet -based  अध्ययन   have  shown its magma chamber  is  approximately .
in  its at least  85  million years of activity the hotspot  रै  produced an estimated of rock  .
The chain 's rate of drift has slowly increased over time , causing the  राशि  of time each individual volcano is active  to  decrease ,  इससे   18  million years for the 76 million year old Detroit  seamount   ,  to just under 900,000 for  the  one million year-old Kohala ; on the other hand , eruptive volume has increased from per year to about .
Overall , this has caused a  ट्रेंड   towards  more active  लकिन  quickly-silenced , closely spaced volcanoes—whereas volcanoes  on  the near  पक्ष  of the  हॉटस्पॉट  overlap each other ( forming such superstructures as Hawaii island and  the  ancient Maui Nui ) , the  oldest  of the Emperor seamounts are spaced as far as apart .
David Palmer , director of the  दिखाएँ  , announced that  the  season 4 finale is the series finale because Nickelodeon canceled the show .
Petitions  हैं  being signed to bring the show for a fifth season .
the   दिखाएँ  airs on Treehouse  tv  Canada  और  Nick Jr. (  formerly  Noggin ) .
Eddie and the Cruisers  is  a 1983 American film directed by Martin Davidson with the screenplay written by the director and Arlene Davidson , based on the novel by P. F. Kluge .
It was marketed with the tagline ``  विद्रोही  .
Rocker  .
Lover .
Idol .
Vanished . ''
Osteonecrosis of the jaw ( ONJ ) is a severe bone disease that affects the maxilla and the mandible .
Various forms of ONJ have  महरूम  described over the last 160 years , and  a  number of causes have been suggested in the literature .
Osteonecrosis of the jaws associated with bisphosphonate therapy , required by some cancer treatment regimens , has been identified and defined as a  pathological  entity since 2003 .
The possible risk from lower oral doses of bisphosphonates , taken by patients to prevent or treat  ऑस्टियोपोरोसिस  , remains uncertain  .
Various treatment options have been  छान  , however severe cases of ONJ still require surgical removal of the affected bone .
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing systemic problems and possible sites of  दंत  infection are  जरूरी  to help prevent the  कंडीशन  , especially if bisphosphonate therapy is considered .
The Boston Red Sox are a professional baseball  टोली  based in Boston , Massachusetts , and a member of Major League Baseball 's American League Eastern Division .
Founded in as one of the American League 's eight charter franchises , the Red Sox 's home ballpark has been Fenway Park since .
The `` Red Sox '' name was chosen by the team owner , John I. Taylor  ,  around , following previous Boston teams that had  महरूम  known as the `` Red Stockings `` .
They have played in 11 World Series  ,  winning 7  .
Boston was  a  dominant  टोली  in the new league , defeating the Pittsburgh Pirates in the first World  श्रेणी  in and winning four more championships by .
However , they then  गई  into one of the longest championship droughts in baseball history , called by some the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after its alleged beginning with the Red Sox 's sale of Babe Ruth  to  the rival  यांकीज़  two years after  उनके  world championship in 1918 , an 86-year wait before the team 's sixth World Championship in .
However  ,  the team 's  इतिहास  during that period was hardly one of futility , but was rather punctuated with some of  the  most memorable moments in World Series history ,  सहित  Enos  वध  's `` mad dash `` in , the `` Impossible Dream `` of , Carlton Fisk 's home run in , and Bill Buckner  's  error in .
रेड  Sox history  रै  also been marked by the team 's intense rivalry with the New York Yankees , arguably the fiercest and most  ऐतिहासिक  in North American professional sports .
The Boston Red Sox are owned by Fenway Sports Group , who also own Liverpool Football  क्लबों  of the Premier League in England .
the  Red Sox are consistently one of the top MLB teams in average road attendance , while the small capacity of Fenway Park prevents them from leading in overall attendance .
From May 15 , 2003 to April 10 , 2013 , the Red Sox sold out every home game-a total of 820 games ( 794 regular season ) for a major professional sports record that lasted almost a decade  .
Mince pie filled with mincemeat
Mincemeat is a mixture of chopped dried fruit  ,  distilled  आत्माओं  and spices , and sometimes beef suet , beef , or venison  .
originally  , mincemeat always contained meat .
Many modern recipes contain beef suet , though vegetable shortening is sometimes used in its place .
Variants  of  mincemeat are found in Australia , Brittany , Canada , northern Europe , Ireland ,  दक्षिण  Africa , the United  किंगडम  and  the   संयुक्त  States .
In some countries the  पद  mincemeat refers to minced or ground meat  .
Diana , Princess of Wales ( Diana Frances ; née Spencer ; 1  जुलाई  1961 – 31 August 1997 )  थी  the first wife of Charles , Prince of Wales , the eldest son and heir apparent of  महारानी  Elizabeth  ii  .
She was well known for her  fund-raising  work for  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  charities and as an eminent celebrity of  the  late 20th century .
Her  विवाह  to the Prince of Wales on 29 July 1981 was  आयोजित  at St Paul 's Cathedral and seen  by  a global television  दर्शक  of over 750 million .
While married she bore the titles Princess of Wales , Duchess of  कॉर्नवॉल  , Duchess of Rothesay , Countess of Chester and Baroness of Renfrew .
the  marriage produced two sons , the  princes   विलियम  and Harry , who became second and third in line to the British throne .
Diana  थी  born into an aristocratic English family with  royal  ancestry .
She  थी  the  चौथी  child of John Spencer , 8th Earl Spencer and his wife  frances  , daughter of Maurice Roche , 4th  सामन्त  Fermoy .
She became a public figure with the announcement of her  सगाई  .
She also received recognition for her charity work and for her support of  the  International Campaign to Ban Landmines .
From 1989  ,  she was  the  president of the Great  ormond  Street Hospital for children , in addition to dozens of  अन्य   धर्मार्थ  .
Diana remained the object of worldwide media scrutiny during and after her marriage , which ended in divorce on 28 August 1996  .
मीडिया  attention and public mourning were considerable following  उसके  death in a car crash in Paris  on  31 August 1997 .
अर्जेंटीना  , officially the Argentine Republic (  )  , is  the  second largest country  in  both  दक्षिण  America and the Latin America region .
The  देश  is a federation  of  23 provinces and the autonomous city of Buenos Aires ,  इसके  capital and largest  नगर  .
It is the eighth -largest country  in  the world by land area and the largest  among  Spanish-speaking nations by geographical  क्षेत्रफल  of  2,780,400  km2 and is the fourth by population , with over 41 million people .
अर्जेंटीना  is a founding member of  the  United Nations , Mercosur  ,  the Union of South American Nations , the Organization of  ibero-american  States , the World Bank Group and the World Trade Organization , and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies .
Argentina is located in South America , bordered by Chile  to  the west  और  south , Bolivia and  पैराग्वे  to the north and Brazil and Uruguay to the northeast .
अर्जेंटीना  claims sovereignty over part of Antarctica , the Falkland Islands ( ) and South Georgia and the South  सैंडविच  Islands .
Argentina is the successor state  of   the  Viceroyalty of the Río de  la  Plata  ,  an overseas colony of the Spanish Empire .
Argentina declared independence  दौरान  the Argentine War of Independence , which  थी   followed  by the Argentine Civil Wars during most of the 19th century .
The country faced several military coups and political instability during the  20th  century ,  साथ  with periodic  आर्थिक  crisis that continue to this day .
A recognized Southern Cone power , and middle power , Argentina is Latin America 's third-largest economy , with a `` very  ऊँची  '' rating on the Human  विकास  index .
Within Latin America , Argentina  रै   the  fifth highest nominal GDP  प्रति  capita and the highest in purchasing  शक्ति  terms .
The Legatum Institute have argued that  the  country  रै  a `` foundation for future growth due to its market size , levels of foreign direct investment , and percentage of high-tech exports as share of total manufactured goods  ''  , and it is  classed  by investors as middle emerging economy .
Argentina is the Latin American country with the most Nobel Prizes , for a total of five , all  प्राप्त  during the second half of the twentieth century .
The country  रै  three Nobel prizes in science and two of peace .
The most important aspects of science and technology in Argentina are concerned with medicine , nuclear physics , biotechnology , nanotechnology , space and rocket technology and several fields related to the country  's  Main Economic Activities .
The country also has the mega  प्रदर्शनी  center of science , technology , industry and art that are Latin America  's  largest .
Hickory  is  a city in Catawba County , with  भाग  also in Burke County and Caldwell County .
The  नगर  's 2010 estimated population is 40,010 .
Hickory is the  प्रिंसिपल  city in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton MSA ,  in  which the population at the 2010 Census was 365,497 .
polyethylene  terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ) , commonly abbreviated PET , PETE , or the obsolete PETP or PET-P , is a thermoplastic polymer resin of the polyester family and is used in synthetic fibers ; beverage , food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering  resins  often in combination with glass fiber .
The term polyethylene terephthalate  is  a source of  भ्रम  because this substance , PET , does not contain polyethylene .
Thus  ,  the  वैकल्पिक  form , poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) , is often used in scholarly journals for the sake of accuracy  और  clarity .
Depending on its processing and thermal history  ,  polyethylene terephthalate may exist both as an amorphous ( transparent ) and as a semi-crystalline polymer .
The semicrystalline material might  appear  transparent ( particle size  <  500 nm ) or  अपारदर्शी  and white ( particle size up to a few microns ) depending on its crystal structure and particle size .
Its  मोनोमर   (  bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification reaction between terephthalic acid and  एथिलीन  glycol with water as a byproduct , or by transesterification reaction between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct .
Polymerization  is  through a polycondensation reaction of the monomers  (  done immediately after esterification/transesterification ) with water as the byproduct .
The majority of the world 's PET production is for synthetic fibers  (  in excess of 60 % ) , with  बोतल  production accounting for around 30 % of global demand .
In the context of textile applications , PET is referred to by its common name , `` polyester , '' whereas  the  acronym `` PET '' is generally used in relation  to  packaging .
Polyester makes up about 18 % of world polymer production and is the third-most-produced polymer ; polyethylene ( PE ) and polypropylene ( PP ) are first and second , respectively .
पालतु  consists of polymerized units of the monomer ethylene terephthalate , with  repeating  C10H8O4 units .
PET is commonly recycled , and has the number  ``  1 '' as its recycling symbol .
Louisiana was admitted to  the  Union on  अप्रैल   30   ,  1812 , and elects  सीनेटरों  to Classes 2 and  क्लास  3 .
Its current senators  हैं  Democrat Mary Landrieu and Republican David Vitter .
Black pudding ,  रक्त  pudding  or  blood sausage is  a  type of sausage made by cooking blood or dried blood with a filler  जबतक  it is thick  पर्याप्त   to  congeal when cooled .
The dish exists in various cultures from Asia to Europe and  the  Americas .
Pig , cattle ,  शीप  , duck , and goat blood can be used depending on different countries  .
In Europe and the Americas , typical fillers include meat , fat , suet ,  ब्रैड  ,  cornmeal  , sweet potato , onion , chestnuts , barley , and  oatmeal  .
In Spain , Portugal  और  Asia , potato  is  often replaced by  राइस  .
Stakeholder may refer to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ) , a person , group , organization , member or system who  affects  or can be  प्रभावित  by an  संगठन  's actions
Stakeholder , an entity that can be affected by the results of  कि  in which  वे  are said to be stakeholders , i.e. , that  in   जिससे  they have a stake .
Project stakeholder , a person , group or organization with  an   ब्याज  in a project
Stakeholder theory , a theory that identifies and models the groups which are stakeholders of a corporation or project
Stakeholder analysis , the process of identifying those  प्रभावित  by a project or event
Stakeholder ( law ) , a third party  जो  temporarily holds  धन  or property  जबकि  its owner is still being determined
Jack Smight ( March 9 , 1925 - September 1 , 2003 ) was an  अमरीकी  theatre and film director .
Smight was born in Minneapolis , Minnesota and went to  स्कूल  with future  कर्ता  Peter Graves .
उसके  film credits include The Traveling Executioner , Rabbit  ,  Run , Loving Couples  ,  Midway , Harper , Airport 1975 , Damnation Alley and the Emmy Award -winning  एडी  , as well as many episodes  of  television series such  as  The Twilight Zone and The Alfred  हिचकॉक  Hour .
He  भी  directed the 1960 Broadway play The 49th  cousin  and composed the music for the  फिल्मी   adaption  of Roll of Thunder Hear My  क्राई  .
Smight died from cancer in Los Angeles , California  .
Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev ( ; 8 February 1834 – 2 February 1907 O.S  .   27  January 1834 – 20 January 1907 ) was a Russian chemist and  आविष्कारक  .
He formulated the Periodic Law , created his own version of the periodic table of  तत्व  , and used it to correct the properties of some already discovered elements and  भी  to predict the  गुण  of elements yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ) , officially the City of Modesto , is the county seat and largest city of Stanislaus County , California , United States .
With a population of approximately 201,165 at the 2010 census , Modesto ranks as the 18th largest city in the state of California .
The Modesto Census County Division , which includes  the  cities of Ceres and Riverbank , has a population of 312,842 as of 2010 .
Modesto is  स्तिथ  in the central valley area of Northern California , 90 miles north of Fresno ,  92  miles east of San Francisco , 68 miles south of the state capital of Sacramento , 66 miles west of Yosemite National Park , and 24  मील  south of Stockton .
Modesto , a 29-time Tree City USA honoree , is surrounded by rich  farmland  , lending to a ranking for the county as 6th among all California counties in farm production .
Led by milk , almonds  ,  chickens  ,   अखरोट  , and corn silage ,  the  county grossed nearly $ 3.1  अरब  in agricultural production in 2011 .
Modesto was immortalized in  the  1973 George Lucas film American Graffiti .
The award winning film captured the spirit of `` cruising '' and friendship on 10th and 11th Streets in 1962 and led to the revival of 1950 's nostalgia that included the TV show Happy Days and the other  spin-offs  .
Ron Howard , Harrison Ford and Richard Dreyfuss starred in the film .
The soundtrack  थी  a huge success .
Director  जार्ज   लुकास  is a native of Modesto  ,  graduating from Downey  ऊँची  School in 1962  .
The  gallup-healthways  Well-Being Index for 2011 , which  साक्षात्कार  1,000 participants daily and asks  individuals  to assess their jobs , finances , physical health , emotional state of mind and communities , ranked Modesto 126 out of  the  190 cities  surveyed  .
In December 2009 , Forbes ranked  modesto  48th out of 100  among  `` Best Bang-for-the-Buck Cities '' .
In this ranking , Modesto ranked 8th  in  housing affordability and travel time but  भी  ranked 86th in job forecast growth and 99th in foreclosures .
Independence Day , commonly known  as  the Fourth of July ,  is  a federal holiday in the United States commemorating the adoption  of  the Declaration of Independence on July 4 , 1776 , declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain .
Independence  दिन  is  commonly  associated with  आतिशबाजी  , parades , barbecues , carnivals , fairs , picnics , concerts , baseball games , family reunions , and political speeches and ceremonies , in addition to various other public and private events celebrating the  इतिहास  , government , and traditions of the United  राज्य  .
Independence Day is the national day of the United States .
A gender symbol denotes the sex of  an  organism or characterizes an agent by gender .
The two standard gender symbols denoting male ♂ and female ♀ are  निकला  from astrological symbols , denoting the classical planets Mars  और  Venus , respectively .
These symbols have been in use since the Renaissance also denoting elements in alchemy  ,  specifically the metals iron and copper .
They were first used to denote the effective gender of plants ( i.e . sex of individual in a given crossbreed , since most plants are hermaphroditic ) by Carolus  लीनियस  in 1751 .
A leasehold estate is an ownership of a  अस्थाई  right to hold land or property in which a lessee or a tenant holds rights of  रियल  property by some form of title from  a  lessor or landlord .
Although a tenant does hold rights to real property , a leasehold estate is typically  माना  personal property .
Leasehold  is  a form  of  land tenure or property tenure where one party buys the right to occupy land or a building for a given length of time .
As lease is a legal estate , leasehold estate can be bought and sold on the open market .
A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is purchased outright  और  thereafter held for  an  indeterminate length of time  ,  and also differs from a tenancy where  a  property is let ( rented ) on a  आवधिक  basis such as weekly or  मासिक  .
Until the end of the lease period ( often measured in decades or centuries  ;  a 99 year lease is quite common ) the  leaseholder  has the right to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed  किराया  to the  मालिक  .
Terms of the agreement are contained in a lease , which has elements of contract  और  property law intertwined .
The  पद  estate  लिये  years may occasionally  be  used .
This refers to a leasehold estate for any specific period of time ( the word ``  सालो  '' is misleading ) .
An estate for years is not automatically renewed .
Colloquially  ,   ``   पट्टे  '' and `` leasing `` are  प्रायः  a formalization of a longer , specific period as compared with a `` rental '' that created a tenancy at will , terminable or renewable at the end of a short period .
Olivia ( also known  as  Welcome to the World of the Pig Olivia ) is a British-American children  's  animated television series produced by media company Chorion and based on Ian Falconer 's books .
It is seen on  उपनाम  Jr. in the US , Milkshake !
, Nick Jr. in  the  UK and Ireland , and Disney Junior  in  Latin America and Brazil , Treehouse TV in Canada .
The show has won a silver Parents ' Choice Award for its positive story lines and characters .
Location of Panama  between   प्रशांत  ( bottom ) and Caribbean ( top ) ,  साथ  canal at top center
The Panama Canal  (  ) is a ship canal in Panama  कि  connects the Atlantic Ocean ( via the Caribbean Sea ) to the Pacific Ocean .
The canal cuts across the Isthmus  of  Panama  और  is a key conduit for international maritime trade .
There are locks at each end to lift ships  up  to Gatun Lake ( above sea-level  )  .
Gatun Lake was created to reduce the  राशि  of  कार्य  required for the canal .
the  current locks are wide .
a  third , wider lane of locks  is   होने  built  .
France  began   कार्य  on the canal in 1881 , but had to stop because of engineering problems and high  मृत्यु   due  to disease .
The  संयुक्त  States ( US ) later took over  the  project and took a decade to complete the canal  in  1914 , enabling ships  to  avoid the lengthy Cape Horn route around the southernmost tip of  दक्षिण  America ( via  the  Drake Passage ) or to navigate  the  Strait of Magellan .
One of the largest and most difficult  अभियान्त्रिकी  projects ever  undertaken  , the Panama Canal shortcut made it possible for ships to  सफर  between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans in half  the   समय  previously required .
The shorter , faster , safer route  to  the US West Coast and to nations in and along the Pacific Ocean allowed those places to  become  more integrated with the  संसार  economy .
During this time , ownership of the territory that is now the  पनामा  Canal was first Colombian , then  फ्रेंच  , and then American ; the United States  समाप्त   the  construction .
The canal  थी   लिया  over in 1999 by the Panamanian government , as  long  planned .
सालाना   ट्रैफ़िक  has risen  इससे  about  1,000  ships when the canal opened in 1914 ,  to   14,702  vessels in 2008 , the latter measuring a total of 309.6 million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System ( PC/UMS ) tons .
By 2008 , more than 815,000 vessels had passed through the canal , many of them  much  larger  than  the original planners  could  have envisioned ; the largest ships that can  पारगमन  the canal today are called Panamax .
The American Society of Civil Engineers has named the Panama Canal one of the  सात   चमत्कार  of the modern world .
Benjamin Franklin ( April 17 , 1790 ) was one of the Founding Fathers  of  the United  राज्य  .
A noted polymath , Franklin was a leading author , printer , political  theorist  , politician , postmaster , scientist , musician  ,  inventor , satirist , civic  activist  , statesman , and diplomat .
As a scientist  ,  he was a major figure in the American  आत्मज्ञान   और  the history of physics for  उसके  discoveries and theories regarding electricity .
He invented the  बिजली  rod  ,  bifocals , the Franklin  स्टोव  , a carriage odometer , and the glass 'armonica ' .
He facilitated many civic organizations , including a fire department and a university .
Franklin earned the title of `` The First American '' for his early  और  indefatigable campaigning for colonial unity ; as an author and spokesman  in  London for several colonies , then  as  the first United States Ambassador to France , he exemplified the emerging American nation .
Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift , hard work , education , community  स्पिरिट  , self-governing  संस्थानों  , and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious  ,  with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment .
In the words of historian Henry Steele  commager  , `` In  a  Franklin could be merged  the  virtues of Puritanism without its defects ,  the  illumination of the  आत्मज्ञान   बगैर  its heat . ''
To Walter Isaacson , this makes Franklin ``  the  most accomplished American of his age and the most influential  in  inventing the  प्रकार  of society America would become  .  ''
Franklin , always proud of his  working   क्लास  roots , became a successful newspaper editor and printer  in  Philadelphia , the leading city in the  colonies   .
He was also partners with William Goddard and Joseph Galloway the three of whom published the Pennsylvania Chronicle  ,  a newspaper that was  ज्ञात  for  इसके  revolutionary sentiments and criticisms of the British monarchy in the American colonies .
He became  धनवान  publishing Poor Richard 's Almanack and The Pennsylvania Gazette .
Franklin gained international renown as a scientist for  उसके  famous experiments in electricity and  लिये  his many inventions , especially the lightning  लाठी  .
He played a major role in establishing the University of Pennsylvania and was elected  the  first president  of  the American Philosophical Society  .
फ्रैंकलिन   became  a national hero in America when he  पथप्रदर्शन  the effort to have Parliament repeal the unpopular Stamp Act .
An accomplished diplomat , he was widely  admired  among the French as American minister to Paris and was a major figure in the development of positive Franco-American relations .
For many years he was the British postmaster for the colonies , which enabled  उसे  to set up  the  first national communications network .
He was active in community affairs , colonial and state politics , as well as national and international affairs .
From 1785 to 1788  ,  he served as governor of  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
Toward the  समाप्त  of  उसके  life , he  freed  his  स्लेव  and  became  one of the most prominent abolitionists .
His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement , and status as one of America 's  सबसे  influential Founding Fathers , have seen Franklin honored on coinage and money ; warships ; the names of many towns , counties , educational institutions , namesakes , and companies ; and more than two centuries after his death , countless cultural references .
Criminal Minds is an  अमरीकी  police procedural television  कार्यक्रम  that premiered September 22 , 2005  ,  on CBS .
The series follows a team of profilers from the FBI 's Behavioral  विश्लेषण  Unit ( BAU ) based in Quantico , Virginia .
the  BAU is part of  the  FBI National Center for the  विश्लेषण  of Violent Crime .
The  दिखाएँ  differs from many procedural dramas by  focusing  on profiling the criminal , rather than the  अपराधों  itself .
The  दिखाएँ  is produced by The Mark Gordon  कम्पनी  in association with  सीबीएस  Television Studios ( originally Paramount Network Television then CBS Paramount Network Television ) and ABC Studios ( originally Touchstone Television ) .
CBS announced in October 2009 that Legacy Interactive would develop  a  video game based on the show .
The game would require players to examine crime scenes for  clues  to help solve murder mysteries .
The interactive puzzle game was released in 2012 ,  लकिन  did not feature any of the voices of the  दिखाएँ  's  डाल  , nor was the cast involved with the project .
On  कूच  14 , 2012  ,  CBS renewed Criminal Minds for an eighth season , which premiered on September 26 , 2012 .
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is a song by the American grunge band Nirvana , written by vocalist and  guitarist  Kurt Cobain .
The song was released as the first single from the group 's  तीसरा  and final studio  एल्बम  , In Utero  ,  in 1993 .
It was one of two  गीतों  from the album mixed by  स्कॉट  Litt in order to augment the original production by producer Steve Albini .
जबकि  Nirvana  's   लेबल  DGC Records did not release a physical  सिंगल  for sale in the United States , `` Heart-Shaped Box '' received much American radio airplay , reaching number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart .
the  international  रिलीज  of  the  single reached number five on the UK Singles Chart .
The  सोंग   's  music video  ,  directed by Anton Corbijn , garnered critical plaudits .
The orbital speed of a body , generally a planet ,  a  natural satellite , an artificial satellite , or a multiple star , is the speed at which  it  orbits around  the  barycenter of a  प्रणाली  , usually around a more massive body .
it  can be used to refer to either the mean orbital  गति  , the average speed as it  completes  an orbit , or instantaneous orbital speed , the speed at a particular point in its orbit  .
The orbital speed at any position in the orbit can be computed from  the  distance to the  सेंट्रल  body at that  स्थिति  ,  और  the specific orbital energy , which is independent  of  position : the  गतिज  energy is the total energy minus the  संभावित  energy .
Brown Palace Interior and Atrium
Brown Palace Hotel is the second-oldest operating hotel  in  Denver , Colorado  और  is one of the first atrium-style hotel ever built .
It is now operated by Quorum Hotels and  रिसॉर्ट  .
It was built in 1892 , one year later than the  ऑक्सफोर्ड  Hotel .
It was named for  इसके  original owner , Henry C. Brown ,  और  was designed  साथ  its odd triangular shape by architect Frank Edbrooke .
The hotel is located at 321 17th St , Denver , CO between 17th Street , Broadway and Tremont Street/Pl in downtown Denver behind the Republic Plaza .
the  main entrance door  is  on Tremont Street .
dvd-video  is a consumer video  स्वरूप  used to  स्टोर   डिजिटल  video on DVD discs , and is currently the dominant consumer video format  in  Asia , North America , Europe , and Australia .
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g. , a DVD player , or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ) .
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video and audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel  स्वरुप  as described below ) .
Typically , the data rate for DVD movies ranges from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s , and the bit rate is usually adaptive .
It was first available for retail around 1997 .
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD  फ़ोरम  and can be obtained from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000 .
The specification is not publicly available , because every subscriber must sign a  non-disclosure  agreement .
Certain information in the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential .
The nautical mile (  प्रतीक  M , NM or nmi  )  is a unit of length that is about one minute of arc of latitude measured along any meridian , or about one minute of arc of longitude at the equator .
By international agreement it has been set at 1,852 metres  exactly  ( about 6,076 feet ) .
It is a non- SI unit ( although accepted for use in the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय   प्रणाली  of Units by  the  BIPM ) used especially by navigators in the shipping and aviation industries , and also in  ध्रुवीय  exploration .
It is commonly used in international law and treaties , especially regarding the limits of territorial waters .
it   विकसित  from the sea mile and the related geographical  मील  .
The nautical mile remains in use  by  sea and air navigators worldwide because of its convenience when  working   साथ  charts .
Most nautical charts use  the   मर्केटर  projection whose scale varies  by  about a factor of six from the equator to 80° latitude , so charts covering large areas can not use a single linear scale  .
The nautical mile is nearly equal to a  मिनट  of latitude on a chart , so a distance measured with a chart divider can  be  roughly  परिवर्तित  to nautical  मील  using the chart 's latitude scale .
Shippensburg is a borough in Cumberland  और  Franklin counties in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania .
Settled in 1730 , Shippensburg lies in the Cumberland Valley  ,  41 miles ( 66 km ) west-southwest  of  Harrisburg , and is part of  the  Harrisburg– Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area .
In 1900 , 3,228 people lived there ; in  1910  , 3,457 ; and in 1940 , 5,244 people lived there .
The population was 5,492 at the 2010 census .
Shippensburg was incorporated as a borough on  जनवरी   21  , 1819 .
In the past , there were furniture factories , engine and pump works , and other industrial  works  located within the town .
Shippensburg is also the home of The Beistle Company , the oldest and largest manufacturer of decorations and party goods , which  बिकता  its  distinctive  honeycomb paper  सजावट  worldwide .
It is also the location  of  Pague and Fegan , the oldest continuously operated  हार्डवेयर  store in Pennsylvania .
In May 2012 , Volvo Construction Equipment began a $ 100 million expansion project to bring  इसके  American headquarters to Shippensburg .
Shippensburg is also home to Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania , one of 14 universities of the Pennsylvania State System  of   उच्चतर  Education .
वार्षिक  the last full  सप्ताह  of July , the Shippensburg Community Fair  is  held .
Begun in 1958 ,  the   मेला  bills itself as Pennsylvania 's  largest   bi-county  fair .
The fair includes agricultural exhibits , a craft show  ,  food vendors , and carnival rides amongst  अन्य  things .
Every summer on the last Saturday of August  ,  Shippensburg holds the  मकई  Festival , an event that brings regional artisans and vendors to operate  स्टैंड  downtown .
The downtown is closed to traffic for at least 5 blocks for most of the day .
औसत  attendance at  the  festival is estimated at 60,000 - 70,000  प्रत्येक  year .
Black hairy tongue ( BHT ,  भी  termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a condition  of  the tongue where the filiform papillae elongate with black or  भूरा  discoloration , giving a black and hairy appearance .
The appearance  may   be   alarming  , but it is a harmless condition  .
Predisposing factors include smoking  ,  xerostomia ( dry mouth ) , soft diet , poor oral hygiene and certain medications .
Management is by  improving  oral hygiene  ,   विशेषकर  scraping or brushing the tongue .
The IEEE 1394 interface is a serial bus interface standard for high-speed communications and isochronous real-time  आंकड़ा  transfer .
It  थी  developed in the late 1980s and  जल्दी  1990s by Apple , who  पुकारा  it  firewire   .
The 1394 interface is comparable to USB , and often those two technologies  हैं  considered together ,  हालांकि  USB has more market share .
Apple first included FireWire in  कुछ  of its 1999  मॉडल  , and most Apple computers since the year 2000 have included FireWire ports , though , as of 2013 , nothing beyond the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b ) .
The interface is also known by the brand i.LINK ( Sony ) , and Lynx (  टेक्सास  Instruments ) .
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel SCSI  in  many applications  ,  because of lower implementation costs and a simplified , more adaptable cabling system .
The 1394 standard also defines a backplane interface ,  हालांकि  this is not as widely used .
IEEE 1394 is  the  High-Definition Audio-Video Network Alliance ( HANA ) standard connection interface for A/V ( audio/visual ) component communication and control .
FireWire is also  उपलब्धियाँ  in wireless  ,  fiber optic , and coaxial  संस्करण  using the isochronous protocols .
Stephen  ``  Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3 , 1954 – August 27 , 1990 ) was an American guitarist , singer-songwriter , and record producer .
Often  referred  to by his initials SRV , Vaughan is  बेहतरीन  known as a founding  सदस्य  and leader of Double Trouble .
Together with drummer Chris Layton and bassist Tommy Shannon , they  ignited  the blues revival of the 1980s .
With a  करियर  spanning  सात  years , Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently sold out concerts while their albums frequently went gold .
He was born and raised in Dallas , Texas , and for a short period of time lived in Graham , Texas  .
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan , Vaughan started playing the guitar  at  age seven  और   formed  several bands that occasionally  performed  in local nightclubs .
At age 17 ,  he   dropped  out of high school and moved to Austin to  further  pursue his musical career , joining groups such as Krackerjack , the  nightcrawlers  , and the Cobras .
In 1977 , he formed Triple Threat Revue , a band that eventually evolved  into  Double Trouble and  regularly  performed around Austin .
In 1982 , Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland , catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne .
Bowie asked Vaughan to  खेल  on his upcoming studio album Let 's Dance ,  जबकि  Browne offered  the  band free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album .
In March 1983 , Vaughan and Double  ट्रबल  were signed to  एपिक  Records by veteran record producer John Hammond Sr.  और  released their debut album , Texas  बाढ़  in June  of  that year  .
After successful touring , the group released the albums , Could n't Stand  the  Weather ( 1984 ) and Soul to Soul ( 1985 ) , the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans .
Although his career had progressed successfully , Vaughan checked  into  a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta  ,  Georgia to give up a cocaine and alcohol  आदत  and returned to touring with the band .
In June 1989 , In Step was released and earned them  a  Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Blues Performance .
On August  27   ,  1990 , Vaughan was killed in  a  helicopter crash following a performance in East Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan 's uniquely  eclectic  yet intense  स्टाइल  was derived from  a  variety of musical genres .
he  was influenced by blues musicians including Albert King , Freddie  किंग  , Otis Rush , and Muddy Waters , and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
His guitar playing reflected  the  classic blues and pentatonic scales .
He has received wide critical recognition for  उसके  guitar playing , ranking at # 6  on   रोलिंग  Stones list of ``  100  Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011 .
He was posthumously  inducted   into  the Blues  हॉल  of Fame in 2000 and a memorial  प्रतिमा  was  erected  in Austin 's Auditorium  shores  park .
Stevie  रे  Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the greatest musicians to  आइये  from the state of Texas .
GigE redirects here .
For the camera protocol ,  देखिए  GigE vision .
In computer networking , gigabit Ethernet ( GbE or  1  GigE ) is a term describing various technologies for transmitting Ethernet frames at a  रेट  of a gigabit per second ( 1,000,000,000 bits per second ) , as defined by the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard .
It came into use beginning in 1999 , gradually supplanting Fast  ईथरनेट  in wired local networks , where it performed considerably  तेज़  .
The cables and  उपकरण  are very  समान  to previous standards and  यहूद  very common and economical by 2010 .
Half-duplex gigabit links connected through hubs are allowed by the specification , but full-duplex usage  साथ  switches is much more common .
Intel PRO/1000 GT PCI network  इंटरफ़ेस  card
The main components of a stamp:
1  .  Image
2  .  Perforations
3 . Denomination
4 . Country name
A postage stamp is a small piece of paper  कि  is  खरीदा  and displayed on an item of mail  as  evidence of payment of postage .
Typically ,  stamps  are  बना  from special  पेपर  , with a national designation and denomination ( price ) on the face , and a gum adhesive on the  रिवर्स  side .
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal administration or other authorized vendor and are  प्रयुक्त  to pay for the costs involved in moving  मेल  as well  as  other business necessities such as insurance and registration .
The stamp’s shape is usually that of a small rectangle of varying proportions , though triangles  or   अन्य  shapes are  occasionally  used .
The  स्टैम्प  is affixed to an envelope or other postal cover ( i.e. , packet , box , mailing cylinder ) that the customer wishes to send .
The item is then processed by the postal system , where a postmark , sometimes known as a cancellation mark , is usually applied over the  स्टैम्प   और  cover ; this procedure marks the stamp as used  ,  which prevents  इसके  reuse .
The postmark indicates the date and point of origin of the mailing .
The mailed item is then delivered to the address  कि  the customer  रै  applied to the envelope or cover .
postage  stamps have facilitated the delivery of mail since the 1840s .
Before this time , ink and hand-stamps ( hence  the  word 'stamp ' ) , usually made  इससे  wood or cork , were often used to  फ़्रैंक  the mail and confirm the payment of postage .
The first  चिपकने  postage stamp  ,  commonly referred to as the Penny  ब्लैक  , was issued in the United Kingdom in 1840 .
The invention of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform  और  improve the postal system in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland , which in the early  19th  century was in disarray and rife with corruption .
There are varying accounts of the inventor or inventors of the stamp .
Before the introduction of postage stamps , mail  in  the UK was  सशुल्क  for by  the  recipient , a system that was associated with  an  irresolvable problem : the costs of  delivering   मेल  were not recoverable by the postal  सेवा  when  प्राप्तकर्ता  were unable or unwilling to pay for delivered items  ,  and senders had no  प्रोत्साहन  to restrict the number  ,  size , or weight of items sent ,  whether  or not they would ultimately be paid for .
The postage stamp resolved this issue  in  a simple and  सुरुचिपूर्ण  manner , with the additional benefit of room for an element of beauty to be introduced .
Later  सम्बन्धित  inventions include postal stationery such as prepaid-postage envelopes , post cards , lettercards , aerogrammes and wrappers , postage meters , and , more recently , specialty boxes  और  envelopes provided free to  the  customer by the U.S. postal service for priority or express mailing .
the  postage stamp afforded convenience  लिये  both the mailer and postal officials , more efficiently recovered costs for the  डाक  service , and ultimately  resulted  in a better , faster postal system .
With  the  conveniences stamps offered  ,  their use  resulted  in greatly increased mailings during the 19th and 20th centuries .
Postage stamps during this era were the most  लोकप्रिय  way of paying for mail , but by the end of the 20th century were rapidly being  आत  by the  उपयोग  of metered postage and bulk mailing by businesses . )
The same result with respect to communications by private parties occurred over  the  last decade of the 20th century and  the  first  दशक  of the 21st due to declining cost of long distance telephone communications  और   the  development and explosive spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail ''  via  the Internet ) and bill paying systems had  .
As postage stamps with their engraved imagery  began  to appear on a widespread basis , historians and collectors began to take notice .
The study of postage stamps and their use is referred to as philately .
Stamp collecting can be both a  शौक  and a form of  ऐतिहासिक  study and reference , as government-issued postage stamps and  उनके  mailing systems  have  always been involved with the history of nations .
The University of Alabama at Birmingham ( UAB ) is a public  विश्वविद्यालयों  in Birmingham in the  u.S.  state of  अलबामा  .
Developing from an extension center established in 1936 , the institution became  an  autonomous institution in 1969  और   is  today one of three institutions in the University of Alabama  प्रणाली  .
UAB offers over 140 programs of study in 12 academic divisions leading  to  bachelor 's , master 's , doctoral , and professional degrees  in  the social and behavioral sciences , the liberal arts , business , education , engineering  ,  and health-related fields such as medicine , dentistry , optometry , nursing , and public health .
The  स्कूल  is highly  प्रसिद्ध  for its medical research and natural sciences programs .
the  UAB Health System , one of  the  largest academic medical centers in the United States , is affiliated with the university .
UAB Hospital  प्रायोजकों  residency  कार्यक्रम  in various medical specialties , including internal medicine , neurology , surgery , radiology  ,  and anesthesiology .
UAB Hospital is the only ACS verified Level I trauma center in Alabama , as rated by the American College of Surgeons Trauma Program .
UAB is the state 's largest employer , with more than 18,000 faculty and staff and over  53,000  jobs at the university and  in  the health system .
An estimated 10 percent of the jobs in the Birmingham-Hoover Metropolitan Area and 1  in   33  jobs in  the   राज्य  of Alabama are directly or indirectly related to UAB .
The university 's overall annual economic impact was estimated  to  be $ 4.6 billion in 2010 .
In the fall of 2012  ,  the University  of  Alabama at  बर्मिंघम  enrolled 17,999 students from more than 110 countries , including 1,605  freshmen  .
There are plans to commence with an `` aggressive '' growth in enrollment at UAB .
The current UAB President is Dr.  रे   L.  Watts .
Tofu , also called bean curd , is a food made by coagulating soy juice and then pressing the resulting curds into soft white blocks .
It  is  a component in many East Asian and Southeast Asian  व्यंजन  .
There are many  अलग  varieties of  टोफू  , including fresh tofu and tofu  कि   रै  been processed in some way .
Tofu has a subtle flavor and can be used in savory and sweet dishes .
It is often seasoned or marinated to suit the  डिश  .
Tofu originated in  प्राचीन   चीन   कुछ  2,000 years ago  .
Chinese  लेजेंड  ascribes its invention to prince Liu An ( Chinese : 劉安 Liú Ān  ,  179–122 BC ) .
Tofu and its production technique were  introduced  into Korea and then Japan during the  nara  period .
It spread into other parts of East Asia as  खूब   .
This spread likely coincided with  the  spread of Buddhism because  it  is an important source of protein in the vegetarian diet of East Asian Buddhism  .
Li Shizhen in  the  Ming  राजवंश  described a method of making  टोफू  in  bencao  Gangmu .
टोफू  has a low calorie count  ,  relatively large amounts  of  protein , and little fat .
It is high in iron and depending on the coagulant used in  निर्माण  , may also be high in calcium and/or magnesium .
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanzee ,  ज्ञात  for being the  one-time   पालतु  of American recording artist Michael Jackson , who bought the primate from a Texas  शोध  facility in the early 1980s .
The animal was a frequent travel companion to the singer ,  जिनकी  attachment to the animal led to media mockery and , among other factors  ,  to a public perception of Jackson  as  an eccentric .
During the Bad World Tour , for example , Jackson brought Bubbles with him to Japan , where they both drank tea with  the  mayor of Osaka .
Bubbles was initially kept at the Jackson family 's home in Encino , Los Angeles , but was moved to Neverland Ranch in 1988  .
There , he slept in a crib in Jackson 's bedroom , used the singer  's  toilet , and ate candy in the Neverland movie theater .
In 2003 the public learned that ,  जैसे  all captive chimpanzees , Bubbles had matured into  a  large and aggressive adult chimp unsuitable as a companion animal .
He was sent to a California animal trainer , where he was reported  to  have attempted suicide .
When the trainer  shut  down his operation in 2004 , Bubbles was moved to the Center for Great  apes  , a sanctuary in Wauchula , Florida , where he has lived since 2005 .
चिंतन  are an English rock band from Teignmouth , Devon , which formed in 1994 .
the  band consists  of  school  मित्रों  Matthew  bellamy  ( lead vocals , lead guitar , piano , keyboards ,  keytar  ) , Christopher Wolstenholme ( bass , vocals , keyboards , rhythm guitar  ,   हार्मोनिका  ) and Dominic Howard ( drums , percussion ,  synthesisers  , sampling ) .
Since the release of their 2006 album Black Holes and Revelations  ,  keyboardist and percussionist Morgan Nicholls has performed live with the band .
Muse are known for their energetic and extravagant live performances and their fusion of many music genres , including space rock  ,  progressive rock ,  वैकल्पिक  rock , heavy metal , classical music and electronica .
Muse have released six studio albums : Showbiz ( 1999 ) , Origin of Symmetry  (  2001  )  , Absolution ( 2003 )  ,  Black  छेद  and Revelations ( 2006 ) , The Resistance ( 2009 ) and The  2nd  Law (  2012  ) .
They have also issued  तीन   सजीव  albums , Hullabaloo Soundtrack ( 2002 ) , which is also a compilation of B-sides , Absolution Tour ( 2005 ) , and HAARP ( 2008 ) , which documents the band  's  performances  at  Wembley Stadium in 2007 .
Black Holes and Revelations earned the band a Mercury Prize nomination and a third place  समाप्त  in the NME Albums of the Year list for 2006 .
Muse have also won a collection of music awards throughout their history , including  पाँच  MTV  यूरोपीय  Music Awards  ,  six Q  पुरस्कार  , eight NME Awards , two Brit Awards —winning  ``  Best  अंग्रेजों  Live  अधिनियम  ''  twice  , an MTV Video Music Award ,  चार  Kerrang !
Awards and an American Music Award .
They were also nominated for five Grammy Awards , of which they won Best Rock Album , for their fifth studio album The Resistance ( 2009 ) .
Muse have sold over 15 million albums worldwide  .
Bloemfontein ( , ; Dutch for `` fountain of flowers '' )  is  the capital city of the Free State Province of South Africa ; and , as the judicial capital of the  स्वदेश  , one of South Africa 's three national capitals  –  the other two being Cape  कस्बा  , the legislative  पूंजी  , and Pretoria , the  प्रशासनिक  capital .
Bloemfontein is  popularly   और  poetically known as `` the city of roses `` , owing to  the  abundance of these flowers and the annual rose festival held there .
The city 's Sesotho  नाम  is Mangaung , meaning  ``  place of cheetahs `` and  it   रै  been included in the Mangaung Local Municipality since 2000 .
Bloemfontein  is   situated  on dry grassland at  ,  at an altitude of above sea level .
The  नगर  is home to 369,568 residents ,  जबकि   the  Mangaung Local  नगरपालिका  has a population of 645,455 .
Where Do We Come From ?
What Are We ?
Where Are We Going ?
One of Post-Impressionist Paul Gauguin 's most famous  paintings  .
the  meaning of life is a philosophical question concerning the  significance  of life or  अस्तित्व  in  सामान्य  .
It can also be expressed in different forms , such as `` Why are we here ?  ``  , ``  कया  is life all about ? `` ,  और  `` What is the  purpose  of existence ? ''
It has been the subject of much philosophical , scientific , and  theological  speculation throughout history .
There have been a large number of proposed answers to these questions from many different cultural and ideological backgrounds .
The meaning of life is in the philosophical and religious conceptions of existence , social ties , consciousness , and happiness , and borders on many other issues  ,  such as symbolic meaning  ,  ontology , value , purpose , ethics  ,  good and evil , free  होगा  ,  the  existence of one or multiple Gods  ,   conceptions  of God  ,  the soul , and the afterlife .
Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related  अनुभवजन्य  facts about the universe , exploring  the  context  और  parameters concerning the 'how  '  of life .
Science also studies and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of well-being and  a  related  धारणा  of morality .
An alternative , humanistic approach poses  the  question `` What is  the   अर्थ  of my life ? ''
The  मान  of the question pertaining to the purpose of life may  coincide  with the achievement  of  ultimate  वास्तविकता  , or a feeling of oneness , or even a feeling of sacredness .
Family Guy  निर्माता  Seth MacFarlane also provides the  आवाज़ें   of  Peter Griffin , Stewie Griffin , Brian Griffin  ,  and Glenn Quagmire .
Family Guy is an American animated  sitcom  that features five main voice actors , and  numerous  regular cast and recurring guest stars .
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane , Alex Borstein , Seth Green , Mila Kunis  (  who replaced Lacey Chabert after  the  first season ) and Mike Henry and now , the new actor  beau  Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton , Adam West , John G.  ब्रेनन  , Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly ,  और  repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller , Charles Durning , Rush  limbaugh  , and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast  सदस्यों  provide voices for multiple characters .
The voice actors  ,  in portraying the various character personalities on the show , draw inspiration from celebrities and pop culture .
Family Guy characters have been played by more than one actor , after members of the  दिखाएँ  left  the  series  or  had conflicting obligations .
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode ``  मुश्किल   विधिक  ``  और  MacFarlane has also won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production , though no other cast member has  जीती  an award  लिये  their work on  the  series .
1911 Illustration by Edmund Dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea '' ( ; literal translation : `` The Princess on the Pea '' ) is  a   साहित्यिक  fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen about a young woman whose royal identity is established  by  a test of  उसके  physical sensitivity  .
The tale was first published with three others by  andersen  in an inexpensive booklet  on  8 May  1835  in Copenhagen by C.A . Reitzel .
Andersen  था  heard the story as a child , and it likely has its source in folk  सामग्री  , possibly originating from Sweden as it is unknown in the Danish oral tradition .
Neither `` The Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen 's other tales of 1835 were well received by Danish critics , who disliked their casual  ,  chatty style , and their lack of morals .
In 1959 `` The  राजकुमारी  and the  मटर  '' was adapted to the musical stage in a production called Once Upon a Mattress starring Carol Burnett .
German Americans ( ) are citizens of  the  United  राज्य  who were either born in Germany or are of  जर्मनी  ancestry .
They comprise  परिचय  50 million people , making them  the  largest ancestry group ahead of Irish Americans ,  अफ़्रीकी  Americans and English Americans .
They comprise about 1/3 of the German diaspora  सब  over the world .
None of the German states had New World colonies .
Not until the 1670s did the first significant  समूह   of  German  आप्रवासियों  arrive in the British colonies , settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania .
Immigration continued  in  very large numbers during the 19th century , with some eight million arrivals from Germany .
They were pulled by the attractions of land and religious freedom , and  धकेल   आउट  of  यूरोपीय  by shortages of land and religious  or  political oppression .
Many arrived seeking religious or political freedom  ,  others for economic opportunities greater than those in Europe , and others simply for the chance to start  भैस  in the New World .
The arrivals before 1850 were mostly farmers who sought out the most productive land , where their intensive farming techniques would pay  बंद  .
After 1840 , many came to cities , where  ``  Germania '' —German-speaking districts—soon emerged .
German Americans established the  पहला   kindergartens  in the United States , introduced the Christmas  पेड़  tradition  ,  and originated popular American foods  ऐसे   as   hot  dogs and  hamburgers  .
German American celebrations  हैं  held throughout the  देश  , one of the most well-known being  the  German-American  steuben   परेड  in New York City , held every third Saturday in September .
There are  भी  major annual events  in  Chicago ,  सिनसिनाटी  , Milwaukee , Pittsburgh , St. Louis and other cities .
Like many other immigrants that came  to  the United States , an overwhelming number of people of German or partial German descent have essentially become Americanized .
The Preamble to the  संयुक्त  States Constitution is a brief introductory statement of the Constitution  's  fundamental purposes and guiding principles .
It states in general terms , and courts  have  referred to it as reliable evidence of ,  the  Founding Fathers  '  intentions  regarding  the Constitution 's meaning  और  what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States .
As the phrase , `` we the people '' suggests that the new government  originates  from the people of the United  राज्य  and it sets into motion a question as it  pertains   to  that vast population concerning the individual rights and equality among  सब  people ; this can be seen most broadly in the  divide  between republicanism and social  लोकतंत्र  .
The history of  the  Internet began with the development of electronic computers  in  the 1950s  .
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock  's   प्रयोगशाला  at University of California , Los Angeles (  ucla  ) , after the second piece of network  उपकरण  was installed at Stanford  शोध  Institute ( SRI ) .
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET , Mark I  at  NPL in the UK , CYCLADES , Merit Network , Tymnet , and  telenet  , were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols .
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking , in which multiple separate  संजाल  could be joined together into  a   संजाल  of  संजाल  .
In 1982 , the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized , and  नतीजतन  , the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP  संजाल  , called the Internet , was introduced .
Access to the  arpanet  was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer  विज्ञान  Network ( CSNET ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET  provided  access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and  शिक्षा  organizations .
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in  the  late 1980s and early 1990s .
The ARPANET was decommissioned in  1990  .
The Internet was  commercialized  in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned , removing the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic .
चूंकि  the mid-1990s , the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce , including the  वृद्धि  of near-instant communication by electronic mail , instant  messaging  ,  आवाज़  over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) `` phone calls '' , two-way interactive video calls  ,   और  the World Wide Web  साथ   इसके  discussion forums , blogs , social networking , and  ऑनलाइन  shopping sites .
The research and  शिक्षा  community continues to develop and use advanced networks such as  nsf  's very high speed Backbone Network Service (  vbns  ) , Internet2 , and  नेशनल  LambdaRail .
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and higher speeds over fiber optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s , 10-Gbit/s , or  अधिक  .
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms :  it  only communicated  1  % of the information flowing through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993 , already 51 % by 2000 , and more than  97   %  of the  telecommunicated  information by 2007 .
Today the Internet continues to grow , driven by ever greater amounts of online information , commerce , entertainment , and social networking .
दक्षिणपश्चिम  Airlines Co. ( )  is  a major U.S. airline and the  संसार  's largest low-cost carrier , headquartered in Dallas , Texas .
It was established in 1967 and adopted its current  नाम  in 1971 .
The airline has  अधिक   than   46,000  employees and operates  अधिक  than  3,400  flights per day .
As of June 5 , 2011 , it  carries  the most domestic passengers of any U.S. airline .
As of April  2013  , Southwest Airlines has scheduled service to 84 destinations in 41 states and Puerto Rico .
Southwest Airlines has solely operated Boeing 737s , except for a few years in the  1970s  and 1980s , when it operated Boeing 727s .
As of  अगस्त   2012  , Southwest is the largest operator of the 737 worldwide with over 550 in service , each operating an average of six flights per day .
In May 2011 , the airline acquired AirTran Airways , with integration of the carriers expected  to  be complete by 2014 .
On March 1 , 2012 , the  कम्पनी  was issued a single operating certificate , technically becoming  एक  airline .
Rolling Rock is a 4.6  %  abv pale lager launched in  1939  by the Latrobe Brewing  कम्पनी  .
Although founded as a local beer in Western Pennsylvania ,  it  was  marketed   aggressively  and  आखिरकार  became a national product .
The brand  थी  sold to Anheuser-Busch of St. Louis , Missouri , in mid 2006 , which transferred brewing  परिचालन  to New  जर्सी  .
Benedict XVI ( , , ; born Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger on 16 April 1927 ) is Pope emeritus of the Catholic Church  .
He served as Pope from 2005 to 2013 .
In that  स्थिति  , he was both the leader of the Catholic Church and Sovereign of the Vatican City  राज्य  .
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave , celebrated his Papal  उद्घाटन  Mass on 24 April 2005 ,  और  took possession of his cathedral , the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran , on 7 May 2005  .
Ordained  as   a  priest  in  1951 in his native Bavaria , Ratzinger established  खुद  as a highly regarded university theologian by  the  late  1950s  and was appointed a full professor  in  1958 .
After  a  long career as an academic , serving as a  प्राध्यापक  of theology at several German universities—the last being the University of Regensburg , where he served as Vice President of the university in 1976 and 1977—he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising and cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977 , an unusual promotion for someone with  छोटी  pastoral experience .
In 1981 , he settled in Rome when he became Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the  आस्था  , one of the most important dicasteries of  the  Roman Curia .
From 2002 until his election as pope , he was also Dean  of  the College of Cardinals , and as such , the primus inter pares among the  कार्डिनल्स  .
Prior to becoming pope , he was `` a major  फिगर  on the Vatican stage  लिये   a  quarter of a century ''  as  `` one of the most respected  ,  influential and controversial members of the College of Cardinals '' ; he had an  influence  `` second to  none   जब  it came to  सेटिंग  church priorities  और   दिशानिर्देश  '' as one of Pope John Paul II 's closest confidants .
He  थी  originally a liberal theologian , but adopted conservative views after 1968 .
His prolific  कृतियाँ  defend traditional Catholic doctrine  और  values  .
During his papacy , Benedict XVI advocated a return to fundamental Christian values to counter the increased  secularisation  of many Western countries .
He views relativism 's denial of  उद्देश्य  truth ,  और   the  denial of moral truths in particular , as the central  प्रॉब्लम  of the 21st century  .
He  सिखाया  the importance of both the Catholic Church and  an  understanding of God 's redemptive love .
Pope Benedict  भी  revived a number  of  traditions including elevating the Tridentine Mass to a more prominent position .
He renewed  the  relationship between the Catholic Church and art , viewing  the  use of beauty as a path to the sacred , promoted the use of Latin , and reintroduced traditional papal garments , for which reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics '' .
He  रै  been described as `` the  प्रमुख   बौद्धिक  force in  the  Church '' since the mid-1980s .
Several of Pope Benedict 's students from his academic career are also prominent churchmen today and  confidantes  of him , notably Christoph Schönborn .
On 11 February 2013  ,  Pope Benedict announced his resignation in a speech in Latin before the  कार्डिनल्स  , citing a `` lack of strength of  दिमाग  and body '' due to his advanced age .
His resignation became effective on 28 February 2013 .
he  is the first pope to  इस्तीफा   चूंकि  Pope  ग्रेगरी  XII in 1415 ,  और  the  पहला  to do  so   on  his own initiative since Pope Celestine V in 1294 .
As pope emeritus , Benedict retains  the  style of His Holiness , and the  शीर्षक  of Pope , and will continue  to  dress  in  the papal colour of white .
he  was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13 March 2013 , and  he  moved into the  newly  renovated Mater Ecclesiae monastery for his retirement on 2 May 2013..
Pocket stereoscope with original test image .
Used by military to  जाँचें  stereoscopic pairs of aerial photographs .
View of Boston , c. 1860 ; an  जल्दी  stereoscopic card  लिये  viewing a scene  इससे  nature
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station viewing apparatus and  सेट  of stereo slides .
Patented by A. Fuhrmann around 1890  .
Company of ladies watching stereoscopic photographs , painting by  याक़ूब  Spoel , before 1868 .
A very early depiction of people using a  stereoscope  .
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a technique for creating or enhancing the illusion of depth  in  an image by means of stereopsis  लिये  binocular  दृष्टि  .
The word stereoscopy derives from the Greek ``  στερεός  '' ( stereos ) , `` firm , solid '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ) , `` to look '' ,  ``  to see '' .
Most stereoscopic methods present two offset images separately to the left and right eye of the  दर्शक  .
These two-dimensional images are then combined in the brain to give the perception  of  3D depth .
This technique is distinguished from 3D displays that display  an  image in  तीन  full dimensions , allowing the observer to increase information about  the  3-dimensional  वस्तुएँ  being displayed by head and eye movements .
John Adams ( October 30 , 1735 ( O.S . October 19 , 1735 ) – July 4 ,  1826  ) was the second president of the  संयुक्त  States (  1797–1801   )  , having earlier served as the first vice president  of  the United States .
An American Founding Father , he was a  statesman  , diplomat ,  और  a leading  एडवोकेट  of American independence from Great  ब्रिटेन  .
खूब  educated , he  थी  an Enlightenment political theorist  जो  promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically  परिचय  his  प्रायः   seminal   विचार  , both  in  published works and in letters to his wife and key  adviser  Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers .
Adams came to prominence in the early stages of  the  American Revolution .
A  वकील  and public figure in Boston , as a delegate from Massachusetts to  the  Continental Congress , he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence .
he  assisted Thomas  जेफरसन  in drafting the Declaration  of  Independence in 1776  ,  and was  इसके  primary  एडवोकेट  in the  कॉंग्रेस   .
Later , as a diplomat in Europe , he helped negotiate the eventual  सलाम  treaty with Great Britain , and was responsible for obtaining vital  सरकारी   लोन  from Amsterdam bankers .
A political theorist and historian ,  एडम्स  largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780 ,  जिससे  together with his earlier Thoughts on Government , influenced American political thought .
One of his greatest roles was as a  न्यायधीश  of character :  in  1775 , he nominated  जार्ज  Washington to be commander-in-chief , and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States .
Adams '  क्रांतिकारी  credentials secured him two terms as George Washington 's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president .
During his one term , he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian Republicans , as well as the dominant faction in his  अपना  Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton .
एडम्स  signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts , and built  up  the army and navy especially in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War  ``  ) with France , 1798–1800 .
the  major accomplishment of his presidency was  उसके  peaceful resolution of the conflict in the face of  हैमिल्टन  's opposition .
In 1800 , Adams was defeated for re-election by Thomas Jefferson and  रिटायर्ड  to Massachusetts .
He later resumed his friendship with Jefferson .
He  और  his wife  ,  Abigail Adams  ,  founded  an  accomplished family line  of  politicians , diplomats ,  और  historians now referred to as the Adams political  परिवार  .
Adams was the father of John Quincy Adams , the sixth President  of  the United States .
His achievements have received greater recognition in modern times  ,  though his contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders  .
Adams was the first U.S. president to  reside  in the building that eventually became known as the White House .
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States currency .
the  first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95  )  , Alexander Hamilton , is  फिलहाल   प्रदर्शित  on  the  obverse of the bill , while the U.S. Treasury  भवन  is featured on the reverse .
( Hamilton is one of two non-presidents featured on currently issued U.S. bills .
The other is Benjamin Franklin , on the $ 100  विधेयक  .
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the  उपस्थित  ) who was not  born  in the continental United States , as he was from the West Indies .
The others are : Albert  gallatin  , Switzerland ( $  500   1862/63  Legal Tender ) ; George Meade , Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91  राजकोष  Note )  ;  and Robert  मॉरिस  , England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal  टेंडर   ;  $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ) .
In addition , Kamehameha I , appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter . )
All $ 10 bills issued today  हैं  Federal Reserve Notes .
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a  $  10 bill in circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear .
Approximately 6 % of  सब   us  banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills .
Ten dollar bills are delivered by  संघीय  Reserve Banks in yellow straps .
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of New York City  हॉल  .
The  $   10  bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces  to  the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left  ,  but  थी  used only for intra-government transactions ) .
a   सवार  on a Yamaha Waverunner XL performing  a   high-speed  turn .
A jetboat is a boat propelled by a jet of water ejected from the back of the craft .
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that uses  a  propeller in the water below or behind the boat , a jetboat draws the water from under the boat into  a  pump inside the boat , then expels it through a nozzle at  the  stern .
Jetboats were originally  designed  by Sir William Hamilton  (  who developed a waterjet  in  1954 ) for operation in the fast-flowing and shallow rivers of New Zealand , specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking rocks in such waters .
पिछला  attempts at waterjet propulsion had very short lifetimes , generally due to the inefficient design of the units  और   the  fact that they offered few advantages over conventional propellers .
Unlike these previous waterjet  developments  , such as Campini 's and the Hanley Hydrojet , Hamilton had a specific need for a  नोदन   प्रणाली  to  operate  in very-shallow water , and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution .
From this , the popularity of the jet  ईकाई  and jetboat  increased  rapidly  .
Through  further   developments  , it  थी   मिला  the waterjet offered several other advantages over propellers for a wide  दायरा  of vessel types , and as  ऐसे  , waterjets are used widely today for many high-speed vessels , including passenger ferries , rescue craft , patrol  नौकाएँ  and  offshore  supply vessels .
Jetboats are highly maneuverable , and many can , from full speed ,  be  reversed and brought to a stop within little more than their own length , in a maneuver known as a `` crash stop '' .
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is  a  high-speed maneuvre where the boat 's engine throttle is  काटें  , the steering is turned sharply and the throttle opened again , causing the boat to spin quickly around with a large spray of water .
There is no engineering  सीमा  to the size of jetboats , though the validity of their use depends a lot on the type of application  .
Classic prop-drives are  generally   अधिक  efficient and economical at low speeds , up to  परिचय  , but as boat speed increases beyond this , the extra hull resistance  उत्पन्न  by struts , rudders , shafts ( etc . ) means waterjets are more efficient in the 20-50 knot range ( up to ) .
Also , in situations with  बहुत  large propellers turning at slow speeds ( such as tug boats  )  ,  the  equivalent size waterjet would  be   too  big to be practical .
For these reasons , the vast majority of waterjet  इकाई   हैं  installed  in  high-speed vessels and in particular situations where shallow draught  ,  maneuverability , and  लोड  flexibility are main concerns .
The biggest jet-driven vessels are  मिला  in  सैन्य   उपयोग  or the high-speed  passenger/car   फैरी  industry .
South Africa 's s ( approximately long ) are the biggest jet-propelled vessels  so  far .
Even these German-built vessels  हैं  capable of performing ``  क्रैश  stops '' .
Uveitis is broadly defined as inflammation of the uvea .
The uvea consists of  the  middle , pigmented , vascular structures of the eye and includes the iris ,  ciliary  body ,  और   choroid  .
Uveitis requires an urgent referral and  thorough  examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist  साथ  with urgent treatment to control the inflammation .
Eric `` E  .  ''
Murphy is a fictional character on  the   comedy-drama  television series Entourage .
He  is  played by Kevin Connolly .
The Shining is a 1980 psychological horror film produced and directed by Stanley  kubrick  , co-written with novelist Diane Johnson , and starring  जोकर  Nicholson , Shelley  duvall  , Scatman Crothers , and Danny Lloyd .
The film is based on the Stephen King novel  the  Shining .
A writer , Jack Torrance , takes a job as an  off-season  caretaker at an  पृथक  hotel .
His young son possesses psychic abilities and is able to see  बाते  from the past and future , such  as  the ghosts who inhabit the hotel .
Soon after settling in  ,  the family is trapped in  the  hotel by a snowstorm , and Jack gradually becomes  बहकावे  by a supernatural presence ; he descends  into  madness and attempts  to  murder his wife and son .
Unlike previous Kubrick films , which developed an audience gradually by building on word-of-mouth , The  जगमगाता  was released as a mass-market film , opening at first in just two cities on Memorial  दिन  , then nationwide a month  बाद  .
Although initial response to the film was mixed , later critical assessment was more  अनुकूल  and it is now viewed  as  a classic of the horror genre .
Film director  मार्टिन  Scorsese , writing in The  रोज़   जानवर  , ranked it as one of  the  11  scariest   हॉरर  movies of all time .
Film critics , film students , and Kubrick 's producer , Jan Harlan , have remarked on the enormous influence the film has had on popular culture .
The initial European release of The  जगमगाता  was 25 minutes shorter than the American version , achieved by removing most of the scenes taking place outside the  environs  of the hotel .
Patio Cola Bottle
Patio Diet  कोला  was a brand of diet soda introduced by Pepsi in 1963 .
It was  निर्मित  in response to Diet Rite Cola  ,  which was the first  आहार  cola on the market .
Fitness promoter Debbie Drake was Patio Diet Cola 's spokesperson .
In 1964 , Patio released orange , grape , and root beer  जायका  .
This flavor line was not meant to compete with brands like Orange Crush ,  लकिन  rather fill out the line .
Patio sodas were available in the cold-bottle market : grocery and mom-and-pop stores .
Advertising for Patio was comparatively scarce ; at the time , bottlers were regionally franchised ,  और  related advertising was necessarily local .
In 1964 , Patio diet cola became Diet Pepsi .
The newly branded diet soda was advertised alongside Pepsi with the tagline `` Pepsi either way '' , which  replaced  the slogan  ``  Dances with flavor '' .
The short life span of Patio  आहार   कोला  makes it a great addition for  बोतल  collectors .
Most of the remaining Patio line of flavors were phased out by  the  early 1970s , while a few survived until the mid 70s
Infrastructure  is  basic physical and organizational structures needed for the operation of a society or enterprise , or the services and facilities necessary for an economy to function .
It can be  generally   पारिभाषित  as the set of  interconnected  structural elements that provide framework supporting  an  entire structure of development  .
It is  an  important term for judging a country or region 's development  .
The term typically refers to the technical  structures  that support a society , such as roads , bridges , water supply , sewers , electrical grids , telecommunications , and so forth  ,  and  can  be defined as `` the  शारीरिक  components of interrelated systems providing commodities and services essential to  enable  , sustain , or  बढ़ाएँ  societal living conditions . ''
Viewed functionally , infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and services , and also the distribution of finished products to markets , as well as basic social services such as schools and hospitals ; for example , roads enable the transport of raw materials to a factory .
in   सैन्य   parlance   ,  the  पद  refers to the buildings and permanent installations necessary for the support , redeployment , and operation of military forces .
To make it simple , infrastructure is  anything  that is  needed   रोज  , an everyday item .
a  graphical representation  of  the ideal human karyotype
Mitochondrial  डीएनए  .
Human genetic variation is the  जेनेटिक  differences both within  और  among populations .
There may be multiple variants of any given  जीन  in the human  जनसांख्यिकी  ( genes ) , leading  to  polymorphism .
Many genes are not polymorphic , meaning that only  a  single  allele  is  उपस्थित   in  the population : the gene is then said to be fixed .
No two humans are genetically identical  .
Even monozygotic twins  ,  who develop from one zygote , have infrequent genetic  मतभेद  due to mutations occurring  दौरान  development  और  gene copy number variation .
Differences  between  individuals , even closely related individuals , are the key to techniques such as genetic fingerprinting .
Alleles occur at different frequencies in different human populations , with populations that are more geographically and ancestrally  रिमोट  tending to differ more .
Causes of differences between individuals include the exchange of genes during meiosis and various mutational events .
There are at least two reasons why genetic variation exists between populations .
Natural selection may confer an  अनुकूली  advantage to individuals in a specific environment  if  an allele provides a competitive  लाभ  .
Alleles under selection are  संभावित  to occur only in those geographic regions where they  confer  an advantage .
The second main  कारण  of genetic variation  is  due to the  ऊँची  degree of neutrality  of  most mutations .
Most mutations do not appear to have any selective effect  एक  way or the other on the organism .
The main cause is genetic drift , this is the effect  of  random changes in the gene pool .
in  humans , founder effect and past small population  आकार  ( increasing the likelihood of genetic drift ) may have had an important  influence  in neutral differences between populations .
The theory that humans recently migrated out of Africa supports this .
The study  of  human genetic variation has both evolutionary significance  और  medical  अनुप्रयोग  .
It  can  help scientists understand ancient human  जनसांख्यिकी  migrations as well as how different human  समूह  are biologically related to one another .
For medicine , study of human genetic variation may be important because  कुछ  disease-causing alleles occur more often in people from specific  भौगोलिक  regions .
New findings show that each human has on average  60  new mutations compared to their parents .
Apart from  mutations  , many genes that may have aided  इंसानो  in ancient  टाइम्स  plague humans today .
For example  ,  it is suspected that genes  कि  allow humans to more efficiently process food are  those  that make people susceptible to obesity and diabetes today .
चाय  Party protesters on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol and the National Mall at  the  Taxpayer March on Washington on September 12 ,  2009  .
the  Tea Party movement is an American political movement that  अधिवक्ताओं  strict adherence to the United States Constitution , reducing U.S. government  बिता  and taxes , and reduction of the U.S.  नेशनल  debt and  संघीय  budget deficit  .
The movement has been called  partly  conservative , partly libertarian  ,  and partly populist .
The movement has sponsored protests and supported political candidates since 2009 .
the  name  of  the movement is derived from the Boston Tea Party of 1773 , an iconic event in American history .
Anti-tax  प्रदर्शनकारियों  in the  संयुक्त   राज्य  have often referred to the original Boston Tea Party for inspiration .
References to the Boston Tea Party  यहूद  part of Tax Day  विरोध  held throughout the 1990s and earlier .
By 2001  ,  a custom had developed among some conservative activists of  mailing  tea  बैग  to legislators  और  other officials as a symbolic act .
The currencies of Puerto Rico closely follow the historic development of Puerto Rico .
As a colony of Spain and the United States ,  प्यूर्टो  Rico was  granted  the use of both foreign and provincial currencies .
Following the Spanish colonization in 1502  ,  Puerto Rico became an important port , with its  अपना  supply  of  gold .
However , as the  खनिज   reserves  ran empty within the century , the archipelago 's economy  suffered  .
The Spanish Crown issued the Situado Mexicano , which meant that a semi-regular shipment of gold from the Viceroyalty of New Spain would be sent to the island , as a way to  provide  economic support .
between  1636  और  1637 , Philip  iv  of Spain imposed a tax which had to be paid using a  आय  stamp .
Inspired by this ,  प्यूर्टो  Rico began producing banknotes in 1766 , becoming  the  first colony to print 8-  रियल  banknotes  in  the Spanish Empire and  जिससे  in the Spanish government 's approval of subsequent issues .
The situado was discontinued during  the  19th century , creating  an  economic  संकट  , as a result  of  Mexico gaining its  स्वतंत्रता  from  स्पेन  .
Salvador Meléndez Bruna  ,  the colonial governor in office , ordered the issue of provincial banknotes , creating the Puerto Rican peso .
however  , printing of these banknotes ceased after  1815  .
दौरान  the following decades , foreign coins became the  फैली  currency .
In the 1860s and 1870s , banknotes  reemerged  .
On February  1  , 1890 ,  the  Banco Español de Puerto Rico was inaugurated and began issuing  banknotes   .
The bank designed four series and placed three in circulation under Spanish rule .
In 1895 ,  a  Royal Decree ordered the  उत्पादन  of provincial peso coins .
On August 13 , 1898 , the Spanish-American War ended with Spain ceding Puerto Rico to the United States .
The Banco Español  de   प्यूर्टो  Rico was renamed Bank of Porto Rico and issued  बिल्स  equivalent  to   the  United States dollar , creating the Puerto Rican dollar .
In 1902 , the First National Bank of Porto Rico issued banknotes in a parallel manner .
Two more series were issued until 1913 .
After Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary system was fully integrated into the United States  '  economic and monetary system , the Puerto Rican  डॉलर  were redeemed for those issued by the United States Treasury .
the  peso and  डालर  have been followed by other contemporary issues ,  सहित  commemorative banknotes , private currency ,  और  a quarter  सिक्का  designed with Fort San Felipe del Morro in the  फेस  .
Pepsi ( stylized in  लोअरकेस  as pepsi , formerly stylized in  अपरकेस   as  PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft drink that is produced and manufactured by  पेप्सिको   .
निर्मित  and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink ,  it   थी  renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28 , 1898 , then to Pepsi in 1961 .
The Book  of  Ezekiel is the third of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew  बाइबल  , following the books of Isaiah and Jeremiah and preceding the Book of the Twelve .
( The order is somewhat  अलग  in the Christian Old Testament ) .
It derives its name from  ,   और  records the visions of , the 6th century  bc  priest and  नबी  Ezekiel  .
According to the book , the prophet , exiled in Babylon , experienced a series of seven visions during the 22 years from 593 to 571 BC  ,   a  period which spans the final destruction of Jerusalem in 586 .
The visions , and the book  ,  are structured around three themes :  (  1 ) judgment on Israel ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) judgment on the nations  (  chapters 25-32 ) ; and future blessings for Israel ( chapters 33-48 ) .
New Orleans ( or , locally or ; ) is a major United States port and the largest city and metropolitan area in the  राज्य  of Louisiana .
The population of the city was 343,829  as  of  the  2010 U.S. Census .
The New  ऑरलियन्स  metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in  2010  and was the 46th largest in the  संयुक्त  States .
The New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa Combined Statistical Area , a larger trading  क्षेत्रफल  , had a 2010 population of 1,214,932 .
the  city is named after Orléans , a city located on the  loire  River in Centre , France ,  और  is well known for its distinct French Creole architecture , as well as its cross-cultural  और  multilingual heritage .
New Orleans  is  also famous for its cuisine , music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ) ,  और  its annual celebrations and festivals , most notably Mardi  ग्रा  .
The city is often referred to as  the  `` most unique  ''  in  अमेरिका  .
नई  Orleans is located in southeastern Louisiana , straddling the Mississippi River  .
The city  और   ऑरलियन्स  Parish ( ) are .
The city and parish are bounded by  the  parishes of St. Tammany to the north  ,  St. Bernard to the east , Plaquemines to  the  south  और   जेफरसन  to the south  और  west .
झील   pontchartrain  , part of which is included in  the  city limits , lies to the north and Lake  borgne  lies to the east .
The National Birth Control  लीग  was a birth  कंट्रोल  organization in the United States .
It was founded in March 1915 by Mary Dennett  ,  Clara Gruening Stillman and Jessie Ashley .
इसके  main purpose was to overturn the laws which banned contraceptives from the U.S. mails .
Campaigns were mounted in New York ,  लकिन  in  1919  the  लीग  was disbanded and reformed into the Voluntary Parenthood League .
Cancer , known medically as  a  malignant neoplasm , is  a  broad group of various diseases , all involving unregulated  कोशिका  growth  .
In cancer ,  कोशिकाएं  divide and grow uncontrollably , forming malignant tumors , and invade  आसपास  parts  of  the  देह  .
The cancer may also spread to more distant parts of the  देह  through the lymphatic system or bloodstream .
Not all tumors are cancerous .
Benign tumors do not grow uncontrollably , do not invade neighboring tissues , and do not spread  throughout  the body .
There are over 200  अलग  known cancers that afflict humans .
Determining  कया  causes cancer is complex .
Many things are known  to   बढ़ाएँ  the risk of cancer , including tobacco use  ,  certain infections , radiation , lack of physical activity , obesity , and  पर्यावरणीय  pollutants .
These can directly  क्षति  genes or combine with  मौजूदा  genetic faults within cells to cause the disease .
Approximately  पाँच   to  ten percent of cancers  हैं  entirely hereditary .
Cancer can be detected in a number of ways , including the presence of  निश्चित   लक्षण   और  symptoms , screening tests , or medical imaging .
Once  a  possible cancer is detected it is diagnosed  by  microscopic examination of a tissue sample .
Cancer is usually treated  साथ  chemotherapy , radiation therapy and surgery .
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the  प्रकार  and location of the cancer and the extent  of  disease at the start of treatment .
While cancer can  affect  people of all ages , and a few types of cancer are more common in children , the  रिस्क  of developing  कर्कट  generally increases with age .
In 2007 , cancer caused  परिचय  13 % of all human  मौतों  worldwide ( 7.9 million  )  .
दरों  are rising as more people live to an old age and as  द्रव्यमान  lifestyle changes occur in the  विकासशील  world .
Spring ski touring on  hardangervidda  , Norway
Skiing is a recreational activity and competitive sport in which  the   भागीदार  attaches long runners or  skis  to boots or shoes on the feet and uses them to travel on top of snow .
aside  from recreation and competition , skiing has  महरूम  used for military purposes  और  even  यात्राएं  in areas that  अनुभव  heavy  हिमपात  .
Many types of competitive skiing events are recognized by the International Olympic Committee , and the International Ski Federation .
जॉन  Maynard Keynes , 1st Baron Keynes , CB  ,  FBA ( ; 5  जून  1883 – 21 April 1946 ) was a British economist whose ideas have fundamentally affected the theory and practice of modern macroeconomics , and informed the economic policies of governments .
He built on and greatly refined earlier work on the causes of business cycles , and is widely considered to be one  of  the founders  of  modern macroeconomics and the most influential  अर्थशास्त्री   of  the 20th century .
His ideas are the basis for the school of thought known  as  Keynesian economics , as well as its various offshoots .
In many ways , subsequent  developments  in 20th century  अर्थशास्त्र  can be viewed  as  either building on Keynes ' ideas or reacting against  उन्हें  .
In the 1930s , Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic thinking , overturning the older ideas of neoclassical economics that held that free markets would  ,  in the short  to  medium term  ,  automatically provide full  नियुक्ति  , as long as  मजदूर  were  लचीली  in their wage demands .
keynes  instead argued that aggregate demand determined the  overall  level of economic activity , and that inadequate aggregate demand could lead to prolonged periods  of  high unemployment .
he  advocated  the  use of fiscal and monetary  उपायों  to  mitigate  the adverse effects of economic  recessions   और  depressions .
Following the  outbreak  of  the  Second World War , Keynes 's ideas concerning economic policy  यहूद  adopted by leading Western economies  .
In 1942 , Keynes was awarded a hereditary  peerage  as Baron Keynes  of  Tilton in the County of Sussex .
Keynes died in 1946 , but during the 1950s and 1960s the success of Keynesian economics resulted in almost all capitalist governments adopting its policy recommendations .
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s , partly as a result of problems that began to afflict  the  Anglo-American  economies  from the start of the decade , and partly because of  critiques  from Milton Friedman and other economists who were pessimistic about the ability of governments to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy .
however  , the advent  of  the global financial crisis  in  2007  caused  a resurgence in  keynesian  thought .
Keynesian economics provided the  सैद्धांतिक  underpinning for  आर्थिक  policies undertaken in  जवाब  to the crisis by  राष्ट्रपतियों  George W.  बुश  and Barack Obama of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  , Prime Minister Gordon  भूरा  of the United Kingdom , and other heads of governments .
in  1999 , Time magazine included Keynes in their  सूची   of  the 100 most important and influential people  of  the 20th century , commenting that : `` His  कट्टरपंथी  idea that governments  चाहिए  spend money they do n't  have  may have saved capitalism . ''
In addition to being  an  economist , Keynes was also a civil  नौकर  ,  a  director of the  अंग्रेजों  Eugenics Society , a director of the Bank of England , a patron  of  the  कला  and an art collector , a part of the Bloomsbury Group of intellectuals ,  an  advisor to several charitable trusts , a writer , a philosopher , a private investor ,  और  a farmer .
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by Jekuthiel Sofer emulated the 1675 Ten Commandments at the Amsterdam  esnoga  synagogue .
The Ten Commandments  ,  also known as the Decalogue , are a set of biblical laws relating to ethics and worship , which play a fundamental role in Judaism ,  islam  and Christianity .
They include instructions to worship only God , to keep the sabbath  पावन  and prohibitions against  idolatry  , blasphemy ,  हत्या  , theft , deception and adultery .
Different groups follow  थोड़ा  different traditions for  interpreting  and numbering them .
The Ten Commandments appear twice in the Hebrew Bible , in the books of Exodus and Deuteronomy .
According to  the   स्टोरी  in Exodus , God inscribed them on two stone tablets , which he gave to Moses on Mount Sinai .
Modern scholarship has found likely influences in Hittite and Mesopotamian laws and treaties , but is  विभाजित  over exactly when the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them  .
The discography of the  अंग्रेज़ी  alternative rock band The Smiths consists of four studio albums , one extended play ( EP ) , one live album , ten compilation albums , twenty singles , one video album and fourteen music videos on the Rough Trade , Sire and WEA record labels .
The band was formed in  1982  in Manchester by vocalist Morrissey , guitarist  जॉनी  Marr  ,  bass player Andy Rourke and drummer  माइक  Joyce .
Despite being championed by  बीबीसी  Radio 1 disc jockey John Peel , the  बैंड  's debut single ,  ``  Hand in Glove `` ( May 1983 ) , failed to chart .
Its follow-up , `` This Charming Man `` ( October 1983 )  ,  met with critical acclaim and reached  क्रमांक  twenty-five on the UK Singles Chart .
the  Smiths ' cult status was followed by mainstream success in 1984 , as they reached number twelve in the UK with the `` What Difference Does It Make ? `` single and reached number two on the UK Albums Chart with their debut album , The Smiths ( 1984 ) .
उनके  next three singles all reached the top twenty of  the  charts  in  the UK , helping to consolidate their previous chart success .
The next  स्टुडियो  album , Meat  is  Murder ( 1985 )  ,  reached the top of the British charts ; however ,  the  only single to  be  released from  the  album , `` That Joke Is n't Funny Anymore `` ( 1985 ) , failed  to  break the UK Top 40 .
Returning to form , The Smiths  '  next  छह  singles all reached the higher than number thirty  in  the UK and their third album , The Queen Is  मुर्दे  ( 1986 ) ,  पहुँचे  number two in  the  UK .
Despite the band  's  chart success , Marr left the group in August 1987 due to a strained relationship with  morrissey  .
Failing to find a replacement , The Smiths disbanded by the time  उनके  final  स्टुडियो  album , Strangeways , Here We Come , was released in September that year .
Strangeways , Here We Come reached number two in the UK  और  became the band 's  highest-charting  release in the United  राज्य  when it reached number fifty-five on the Billboard 200 .
In early 1992 , WEA acquired the entire  वापस  catalogue of  the   smiths  and produced two compilations – Best ... I and ... Best II – the first of which reached the top of the UK Albums Chart .
WEA released two  further  singles compilations  in  1995 and 2001 , with a further compilation , The Sound of The Smiths ,  released  in November 2008 .
Gone with the Wind is a novel written by Margaret Mitchell , first published in 1936 .
It is often placed in  the  literary sub-genre of  the   ऐतिहासिक  romance novel .
However ,  it  has been argued the novel is a `` near miss '' and does  नहीं  contain all of the elements of the romance genre , making it simply a historical novel  .
The story is set in Clayton County , Georgia ,  और  Atlanta during the American Civil War and Reconstruction .
It depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara , the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do plantation owner , who must use every means at her disposal to  आइये  out of the poverty she finds  herself  in  बाद  Sherman 's `` March to the Sea '' .
मार्गरेट  Mitchell began writing Gone with the Wind in  1926  to pass the time while recovering from an auto-crash injury that refused to heal  .
In April 1935  ,  Harold Latham of  macmillan  , an editor who was  looking   लिये  new  fiction  , read what she had written and saw that it could be  a  best-seller .
After Latham  सहमत  to  प्रकाशित  the book , Mitchell worked for another six months checking the historical references , and rewrote the opening chapter  अनेक  times .
Mitchell and her husband John Marsh  ,  a copy editor by trade ,  संपादित  the final version of the novel .
Mitchell wrote the book 's final moments first , and  तब  wrote the events that led up to it .
As to what became of her lovers , Rhett and Scarlett , after the novel ended , Mitchell did not know , and said ,  ``  For all I know , Rhett  may  have found someone else who was less difficult . ''
Mitchell received the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for the book in 1937 .
The  किताब   थी  adapted into  a  1939 American film  .
Gone with the Wind is the only novel by Mitchell published during  उसके  lifetime .
Endodontics ( from the Greek  endo  `` inside '' ; and odons `` tooth '' ) is one of the dental specialties recognized by  the  American Dental Association , Royal College of Dentists  of   कनाडा  , and Royal Australasian  कॉलेज  of Dental Surgeons , and deals  साथ  the tooth pulp and  the  tissues  surrounding  the root of a tooth .
Endodontists perform  a  variety of procedures  सहित  endodontic therapy ( commonly known as `` root canal therapy '' ) , endodontic retreatment , surgery , treating cracked teeth , and treating dental trauma .
Root canal therapy is one  of  the most common  प्रक्रियाओं  .
If the pulp ( containing nerves , arterioles , venules ,  lymphatic  tissue ,  और  fibrous tissue ) becomes diseased or injured , endodontic treatment is  जरूरी  to save the tooth .
Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) is a  point-to-point  serial  प्रोटोकॉल   कि  moves data to  और  from computer storage devices such as hard drives and tape drives .
sas  replaces the older Parallel SCSI ( pronounced `` scuzzy '' ) bus  प्रौद्योगिकी  that first appeared in the  mid-1980s   .
SAS , like its predecessor  ,  uses the standard SCSI  कमांड  set .
SAS offers  पिछड़ा   संगतता  with second-generation SATA drives .
SATA  3   gbit/s  drives may be connected to SAS backplanes , but SAS drives can not connect to SATA backplanes .
The T10 technical committee of  the  International Committee for Information Technology Standards ( INCITS ) develops and maintains  the  SAS protocol ; the SCSI Trade Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the  प्रौद्योगिकी  .
Part of the constitutional provision as it  appeared  in 1787
Status  as  a natural-born  नागरिक  of the United States is one of the eligibility requirements established in the  संयुक्त  States Constitution for election to the office of President or Vice President .
इस  requirement was intended to protect the nation from foreign influence .
The Constitution does not define the phrase natural-born citizen , and various opinions have  महरूम  offered over time regarding its precise  अर्थ  .
A 2011 Congressional Research Service report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been mentioned in passing in several  निर्णय  of the United States Supreme Court and lower courts dealing with the question of eligibility for citizenship by birth , but the Supreme  अदालत  has never directly addressed the  सवाल  of a specific presidential or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born citizen .
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' Warner ( born June 22 , 1971 ) is a  पूर्व  American football player .
He played quarterback for three National  फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL ) teams  :  the St. Louis Rams , the New York Giants , and the Arizona Cardinals .
he  was originally signed by the Green Bay Packers as an undrafted  फ़्री  agent in 1994 after playing college  फ़ुटबॉल  at Northern Iowa  .
warner   होता  go on to be considered  the  best undrafted player of all time ,  following  a 12-year career regarded as one of the greatest stories in NFL  इतिहास  .
Warner first attained stardom while playing for  the   st.  Louis Rams from 1998 to 2003  ,  where  he  won two NFL MVP awards in 1999 and 2001 as well as the Super Bowl MVP award  in  Super Bowl XXXIV .
He led the 2008  एरिज़ोना  Cardinals to Super Bowl XLIII  (  the franchise 's  पहला   सुपर  Bowl berth ) , and owns the three highest single-game passing yardage totals in Super Bowl history .
Warner currently holds the seventh-highest career passer rating of all-time ( 93.7 )  ,  and the third-highest career completion percentage in NFL history  साथ  65.5 % .
In 13 career  playoff  games , Warner ranks first all-time in completion percentage ( 66.5  %  ) , yards per attempt ( 8.55 ) , and  दूसरी  in passer rating ( 102.8 ) .
He also holds  the  highest completion percentage for a single game during the regular season  ,  at 92.3 percent (  24/26  ) , on September 20 , 2009 , against the Jacksonville Jaguars .
He announced his retirement on January 29 , 2010. < ref name='CNN 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay Ruthven Hagan ( ;  born  May 26 , 1953 ) is the  जूनियर  United States Senator  इससे  North Carolina , in office since January 2009 .
Previously she served in the North Carolina Senate from 1999 to 2009 .
She is a member of  the   लोकतांत्रिक  Party and is viewed as a moderate member of her party .
When  hagan  defeated Republican incumbent Elizabeth Dole in the 2008 United States  सीनेट  election , she became the first woman to defeat an incumbent woman in a Senate election .
the  Heisman Memorial Trophy Award ( usually  ज्ञात  colloquially as the  heisman  Trophy or the Heisman ) , is awarded annually to the player deemed the most outstanding player in collegiate football .
It was created in 1935 as the Downtown Athletic Club trophy  और  renamed in  1936  following  the  death  of  the Club 's athletic director , John  heisman  ( former Brown University and University of Pennsylvania player ; head football  कोच   at  Oberlin College ,  auburn  University , Clemson University , Rice University , and the University of Pennsylvania ; and football , basketball , and baseball head coach  और  athletic director at Georgia Tech ) .
The award is presented by the Heisman Trophy Trust in early December before the postseason bowl games .
It is the oldest of several overall  पुरस्कार  in college  फ़ुटबॉल   ,  including the Maxwell Award , Walter  शिविर   पुरस्कार  ,  और  the AP Player of the Year .
The Heisman and  the  AP Player  of   the  Year  हैं  the only awards to honor the most outstanding player , while  the  Maxwell Award and Walter Camp Award recognize the best player , and the Archie Griffin Award recognizes  the  most valuable  खिलाड़ी   .
The  संयुक्त  Nations Command ( UNC  )  is the unified command structure for the multinational military  शक्तियां  supporting the Republic of Korea  (  South Korea or ROK )  दौरान  and after  the  Korean War .
After troops of the Democratic People  's  Republic of Korea  (  North  कोरियाई  or DPRK ) invaded South Korea on June 25 , 1950 , the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 82 calling  on  North Korea to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel .
On June 27 , 1950 ,  it   अपनाया  Resolution 83 , recommending that  सदस्यों  of the United Nations provide  सहायता  to the Republic of  कोरियाई  `` to repel the armed attack and to restore  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  peace and  सुरक्षा  to the area '' .
Security Council Resolution 84 , adopted on July 7 , 1950 , recommended that members providing military forces and  अन्य   सहायता  to South Korea `` make such forces and other assistance available to a unified command under the United States of America '' .
Although the  रिज़ॉल्यूशन  suggested the forces under the UNC were `` United Nations forces '' , and United Nations itself could be considered a belligerent , in practice the United Nations exercised no control over the combat forces ,  जिससे  were controlled by the United States .
Most observers concluded that the forces under the UNC were not in  विधि   संयुक्त  Nations troops , and the acts of  the  UNC were not the acts of  the  United Nations .
The UNC can be regarded as an alliance of national armies , operating under the collective right of self-defense .
On August 29  ,  1950  ,  the  अंग्रेजों  Commonwealth 's 27th Infantry Brigade arrived at Busan to join the UNC  ,  which  जबतक  then included only ROK and U.S. forces .
The 27th Brigade moved into the Naktong River line west of Daegu .
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed in rapid succession ; Australia , Belgian United Nations Command , Canada , Colombia , Ethiopia , France ,  यूनानियों  , Luxembourg ,  the  Netherlands , New Zealand , the Philippines , Thailand and Turkey .
The Union of South Africa provided air units which  लड़ा  alongside the air forces of other member nations .
Denmark , India  ,   नार्वे  , and Sweden provided medical units .
Italy provided a hospital , even though it was not a UN member .
the  United Nations Command and the Chinese-North Korean Command signed  the  Korean Armistice Agreement on 27 July 1953 , ending the heavy fighting .
The armistice agreement established the  सैन्य   armistice  Commission ( MAC ) , consisting of representatives of  the  two signatories , to supervise the implementation of the armistice  शर्तें  .
the  North Korean-Chinese MAC has been replaced by Panmumjon  प्रतिनिधि   अंतर्गत  exclusive North Korean management .
Regular meetings have been stopped , although duty officers of Joint Security Area , commonly known as the Truce Village of Panmunjom , from each  पक्ष  meet regularly .
Lincoln Heights is an American family drama television series about Eddie Sutton , a Mission Vista police officer who moves his family back to  उसके  old neighborhood , Lincoln Heights , to start a new  जीवन  and to help out his old neighborhood .
it  is a dangerous place to raise a family , and through the many trials the family goes through , they soon learn that settling in is not as easy as it  seems  .
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope with every day life as a street cop in Los Angeles  ,  his kids try to fit in at their new  स्कूलों  and with their  नई  neighbors .
the  show premiered January 8 , 2007 on the ABC Family network with 13 episodes ordered for the first season .
It was approved for a second season , which premiered September 4 , 2007 .
Vanessa Hudgens ' song , Say OK had  महरूम  used in a commercial to promote the second season .
To promote the third season , they showed clips  of  Cassie and Charles 's relationship to the song , Crush by the American Idol 's seventh season runner-up , David Archuleta  .
To promote season 4 , they 're using  the  song  ,  Avalanche by  मारी  Digby .
The show 's theme  सोंग  was written and performed by  bassist  Stanley Clarke and singer-songwriter Blaire Reinhard .
On January 29  ,  2010 ,  एबीसी  Family announced the cancellation of the series after four seasons  .
A Christian denomination  is  an identifiable religious body under a common name , structure , and doctrine within Christianity .
In the Orthodox tradition , churches  हैं  divided  प्रायः  along  जातीय  and linguistic lines ,  into  separate churches and traditions .
Technically , divisions between one group and another are defined by doctrine and church authority .
Issues such as the nature of Jesus , the authority of apostolic  उत्तराधिकार  , eschatology , and papal primacy separate one denomination from another .
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest denomination with over 1.1 billion members , over half of all Christians worldwide , making it the largest denomination for  कोई  religion worldwide  (  although the church does not view itself  as  a denomination  ,   लकिन  as the  असली  pre-denominational church  )  .
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of Christians worldwide , and together the Catholics , Protestants , Anglicans , and other closely related denominations comprise Western Christianity .
The Eastern Orthodox Church , Oriental Orthodox Churches and the Assyrian Church of the East are considered Eastern Christian denominations .
Western Christian denominations prevail in Western Europe and its former colonies .
Eastern Christian denominations are represented mostly in Eastern Europe , the Middle  ईस्ट  and North Africa  .
Christians have various doctrines about the Church ,  the   देह  of faithful that they believe was established by Jesus Christ , and how the  दैवी  church  corresponds  to Christian denominations .
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider  प्रत्येक  of themselves solely to faithfully represent the One Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church to the exclusion of the other .
protestants  separated from the Catholic  गिरिजाघर  because of theologies and practices that they considered to be in violation of their interpretation .
Generally , members of the various denominations acknowledge each other as Christians , at least to the extent that they have mutually recognized baptisms and acknowledge historically orthodox views including  the   देवत्व  of Jesus and doctrines of sin and salvation , even though doctrinal and ecclesiological  बाधाएं  hinder full communion  between  churches .
Since the reforms surrounding  वेटिकन  II , the Catholic  गिरिजाघर  has referred to Protestant communities as `` denominations '' , while reserving the term `` church '' for apostolic churches , including the Eastern  परंपरागत   (  see subsistit in and branch theory ) .
There are however some non-denominational Christians who do not follow any particular  शाखा  .
The panda  (  Ailuropoda melanoleuca , lit .
``  black and white cat-foot '' ) , also known as the giant panda to distinguish it from the unrelated red panda , is a bear native to central-western and south western China .
It is easily recognized by the large , distinctive black patches around its eyes , over the ears , and across its round body .
Though  it  belongs to the order  carnivora  ,  the  panda  's  diet  is  99 % bamboo .
Pandas in the wild will  occasionally  eat other grasses ,  जंगली  tubers , or even meat in the form of birds  ,  rodents or carrion .
in  captivity , they may receive honey , eggs , fish  ,  yams , shrub leaves  ,  oranges , or bananas  साथ  with specially prepared food .
The giant panda lives in  a   few  mountain ranges in central China , mainly in Sichuan province , but also  in   the  Shaanxi and Gansu provinces .
As a result of farming , deforestation and other development , the panda has been driven out of the lowland areas where it  एकबार   जिया  .
The panda is a conservation reliant endangered species .
A 2007 report  shows  239 pandas living in captivity inside China  और  another 27 outside the country .
Wild population estimates vary ; one estimate shows that there are about 1,590 individuals living in the wild , while a 2006 study via DNA analysis estimated that this figure could be as high as 2,000 to 3,000 .
Some  रिपोर्ट्स  also show that the number of pandas in  the  wild is on the rise .
However , the IUCN does not believe there is enough certainty yet  to  reclassify the species from Endangered to Vulnerable .
While the dragon has often served as China 's national emblem , internationally the panda appears at least as  commonly  .
As  ऐसे  , it is becoming widely used within China in international contexts , for example the five Fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics .
The Kite  धावक  is a 2007 American drama film directed by Marc Forster based on the novel of the same name by Khaled Hosseini .
It tells the story of Amir , a well-to-do boy from the Wazir Akbar Khan district of Kabul , who is tormented by the guilt of abandoning his friend Hassan , the son of his father 's Hazara servant .
The story is set  विरूद्ध  a backdrop of tumultuous events , from  the   पतन  of the monarchy in Afghanistan through the Soviet  सैन्य  intervention , the mass exodus of Afghan refugees to Pakistan and the United States , and the Taliban regime .
Though most of the film is set in  अफगानिस्तान  , these parts were mostly shot in Kashgar ,  चीन  , due to the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the time .
The majority of the film 's dialogue is in Dari , with the remainder spoken  in  English .
The child actors are native speakers , but several adult actors  था  to learn Dari .
Filming wrapped up on December 21 ,  2006  , and  the  film was expected to be released on November 2 , 2007 .
However  ,  after concern for  the  safety of the  यंग   अभिनेताओं  in the film due to fears of violent reprisals to the sexual nature of some scenes in which  वे  appear , its release date was pushed back six weeks to December 14 , 2007 .
The Kite Runner was released on DVD on March 25 , 2008 .
A HD DVD release was announced for the same date , but was canceled following the format 's demise .
The film was nominated for  the  Golden Globe Award for Best Foreign  भाषा   फिल्मी  in 2007 .
The film 's score by Alberto Iglesias was nominated for Best Original Score  at  the Golden Globes and the  अकादमी  Awards .
The legality of cannabis varies from country  to  country  .
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has  महरूम  since the beginning of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s  .
However , many countries have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of cannabis , particularly in North  अमेरिका  , South America  और  Europe .
Furthermore , possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands , North Korea and  होता  be in the U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it were not for federal law , which governs persons in all states .
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in  a  number of countries , including Canada , the Czech Republic and Israel .
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis , enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have established medicinal marijuana programs in that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and  वॉशिंगटन  ) have repealed  उनके  laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them  साथ  a regulatory regime , also contrary to federal statute .
कुछ  countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but , apart from the  देशों  that offer access  to  medical  मारिजुआना  , most countries have  विभिन्न  penalties ranging  इससे  lenient to very severe .
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in  लिहाज़  to the cultivation , use , possession or transfer of cannabis for recreational use .
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis , making it punishable by  confiscation   और  a fine , rather than imprisonment .
कुछ  jurisdictions/  ड्रग  courts use mandatory treatment programs for young  or  frequent users ,  साथ  freedom from narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes .
There  हैं  also changes in a more restrictive direction as in Canada .
Drug  परीक्षण  to detect cannabis are increasingly common in many countries and have resulted in jail sentences and  लोगों  losing  उनके  jobs .
However , simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries , particularly in parts  of  East Asia and  southeast  Asia where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or  भी  execution .
Loxahatchee is a community located in Palm Beach County , Florida , United States .
It is located in the areas north of Wellington and west and northwest  of  Royal Palm Beach , Florida  और  approximately west of West Palm Beach .
loxahatchee  is  भी  the name of the Post Office that serves  इस  area , which is under  the  zip code of 33470 .
The name Loxahatchee  अर्थात्  `` turtle river . ''
Loxahatchee is located within the Indian Trails Improvement District  और  the Loxahatchee Groves Water  कंट्रोल  District .
Lion Country Safari , a  drive-through  safari park , is located  in  Loxahatchee .
In 2006 , the state of Florida approved incorporation of part of Loxahatchee  as  the Town of Loxahatchee Groves to become the 38th municipality in Palm Beach County .
The main reason for  incorporating  was to better  protect   the  area from encroaching growth and to preserve the rural character  of  the neighborhood .
Perhaps the most rural area within a close proximity to West Palm Beach , with lot sizes range from 1-20 acres  .
Along with The Acreage  ,  it is notable for loose land restrictions and the native and exotic animal presence is quite notable .
seminole  Ridge High  स्कूल  serves the area .
The Canadian  नागरिकता  Test is a test , administered  by  Citizenship and Immigration Canada ( CIC ) , that is required for all applicants for Canadian citizenship who are aged  between  18 and  54  and who meet the basic requirements for citizenship .
The test  is  available in  दोनो   फ्रेंच  and English ,  the  official  भाषाएं  of Canada .
पुनर्जागरण  Cruises , originally founded in 1989 owned by Fearnley  &  Eger Rederi  in  Oslo - Norway  ,  later purchased by Edward Rudner  (  founder of Alamo Car Rental ) as the company faltered  दौरान  the Gulf War .
They operated  year-round  cruise itineraries to the Mediterranean ,  the  Greek Isles , Tahiti and  the  South Pacific , Northern Europe and Scandinavia  .
The company ceased operations on 25 September 2001 and accommodated up to 220,000  अतिथि  in 2000 .
While the company had been in poor financial health for quite some time , the economic decline resulting from  the  September 11th terrorist attacks are credited with the demise of this cruise line .
The fleet is listed under List of cruise ships .
It was headquartered in Fort Lauderdale  ,  Florida .
Epithelium  is  one  of  the four basic types of animal tissue , along with connective tissue , muscle tissue and nervous tissue .
Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of structures throughout the body , and also form many glands .
Functions of epithelial cells include secretion , selective absorption , protection , transcellular transport and detection of sensation .
in  Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) means `` on ''  or  `` upon '' , and `` θηλή '' (  ``  thēlē  ''  ) means `` nipple  ''  .
Epithelial layers are  avascular  , so they must receive nourishment  via  diffusion of substances from the underlying  संयोजी  tissue , through the basement membrane .
epithelia  can also be organized into clusters of cells that function as exocrine and endocrine glands .
Kent E. Hovind ( born  जनवरी  15 , 1953 ) is an American young  धरती   creationist  .
Hovind has spoken  on  creation science and has aimed to convince  श्रोता  to reject theories of evolution ,  भूभौतिकी   ,  and cosmology  in  favor of his interpretation  of   the  Genesis  सृष्टि  narrative from the Bible .
Hovind 's views are contradicted by scientific evidence and some of his ideas have  भी  been criticized by young Earth creationist organizations such as Answers  in  Genesis .
Hovind established  the  Creation Science  इंजीलवाद  in 1991 , and frequently spoke on young Earth creationism at seminars at private schools and churches , debates , and on radio and television broadcasts .
Since January  2007  , Hovind has  महरूम  serving a  ten-year  prison sentence after being  convicted  of 58 federal counts , including 12 tax offenses , one count of obstructing federal agents , and 45 counts  of  structuring cash transactions .
He is incarcerated at  the  Federal Correctional Institution at Berlin , New Hampshire .
Bride with Bindi decorated forehead
A bindi ( , from Sanskrit bindu , meaning `` a drop  ,  small particle , dot '' ) ,  or  a pottu/bottu (  in   तमिल  , Telugu  ,  and Malayalam ) is a forehead decoration worn in South Asia ( particularly India , Bangladesh , Nepal , Sri Lanka and Mauritius  )  and Southeast Asia .
Traditionally it is a bright dot of red color applied in  the  center  of  the forehead close to the eyebrows , but it can also consist of a sign or  टुकड़ा  of jewelry worn at this location .
The New York gubernatorial election of 2010 was held on Tuesday , November 2 , 2010 , to elect the Governor  of  New York , to serve a four-year term that  began  in January 2011 .
Incumbent Democratic Governor David Paterson , elected  as  Lieutenant Governor in  2006  as  the  running mate of former Governor  एलियट  Spitzer , chose not to run for a full-term .
On November 2 , New York Attorney General and Democrat Andrew  cuomo  defeated Republican Carl Paladino  .
Green Party candidate Howie  हॉकिन्स  received  over   57,000  votes , allowing the  नई  York Green Party to be listed on the ballot for the next  4  years .
The  प्रमुख  cast of Dragon Ball at the end  of   the  manga .
The Dragon Ball manga  और  anime series features an extensive cast of characters created by Akira Toriyama .
The series takes place in a fictional universe , the same as  toriyama  's previous series Dr. Slump , and follows  the  adventures of martial artist Son Goku from childhood  to  adulthood as he searches for the seven spheres known as the Dragon Balls , used  to  summon a  wish-granting  dragon .
During the course of the story , he encounters allies such as Bulma , Yamcha , Kuririn and Trunks ,  विरोधियों  such as Tenshinhan , Piccolo and Vegeta , and enemies such as Freeza and Cell .
While  अनेक  of  the  characters are humans with superhuman strength and/or supernatural  abilities  , the cast also includes anthropomorphic  पशु  and later , extraterrestrial  lifeforms   .
The series also includes depictions of the afterlife , with several characters being gods that  govern   the  universe .
250px
The Comanche  हैं  a Plains Indian tribe whose  ऐतिहासिक  territory , known as Comancheria , consisted of present day eastern New Mexico , southern Colorado  ,  northeastern Arizona , southern Kansas , all of Oklahoma , and most of northwest Texas .
The Comanche people are enrolled  in  the federally  पहचाना  Comanche Nation  ,  in Oklahoma  .
Historically , the Comanches were  hunter-gatherers   साथ  a horse culture .
There may have been as many as 45,000 Comanches in the late 18th century .
Today , the Comanche Nation Comanche tribal enrollment numbers 15,191 with approximately 7,763  सदस्यों   residing  in the Lawton – Fort  sill  and surrounding  क्षेत्रों   of  Southwest Oklahoma .
The  comanche  Nation  homecoming  Powwow is held annually  in  Walters , Oklahoma in mid-July .
The Comanche spoke the Comanche language ,  a  Numic language of the Uto-Aztecan family , sometimes classified as a Shoshone dialect ; however , only about 1 % of Comanches speak it today .
Ethan Frome is a novel published in  1911  by the Pulitzer  पुरस्कार  -winning American author Edith Wharton .
It is set in the fictitious town of Starkfield , Massachusetts .
The novel was adapted into a film , Ethan Frome , in 1993 .
Times Square Studios ( TSS ) is an American television studio located in  the  Times  वर्गाकार  neighborhood of the Manhattan borough of New  यॉर्क  City , New York .
The studio is best known as the production home of ABC News ' Good Morning America ( GMA ) , a morning news and talk program  और   खण्ड  for GMA on ABC News Now .
The Las Vegas Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink  बेची  in stores , restaurants , and vending machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea .
It is  उत्पादित  by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia ,  और  is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered  ट्रेडमार्क   of  The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March  27  , 1944 ) .
Originally intended  as  a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler , whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the  संसार  soft-drink market  throughout   the  20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world .
The bottlers  ,  who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company , produce finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then sell  ,   वितरित  and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines .
Such bottlers  शामिल  Coca-Cola Enterprises  ,  which is the largest single  coca-cola  bottler in North America  और  western Europe .
the  Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for soda fountains to major  रेस्तरां  and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company has ,  on   अवसर  , introduced other cola  पेय  under the Coke  ब्रांड  name .
The  सबसे  common of these is Diet Coke , with others including Caffeine-Free  coca-cola  , Diet Coke Caffeine-Free , Coca-Cola Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero ,  coca-cola  Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on  interbrand  's  बेहतरीन  global  ब्रांड  2011 , Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand .
Types of bar-lines
In musical  संकेतन  , a bar ( or  माप  ) is a segment of time defined by a given number of beats , each of which are assigned a particular note value .
Dividing music into bars provides regular reference points to pin  पाइंट  locations within a piece of music .
It also makes written music  easier  to follow , since each bar of  स्टाफ  symbols can be read and played as a batch .
Typically , a piece consists of several bars of the same length , and  in  modern musical notation the number of beats in each bar is specified  at  the beginning of the score by the  शीर्ष  number of a time signature ( such as 3/4 ) , while the  नीचे   क्रमांक  indicates  the  note  मान  of the beat ( the beat has a quarter note  मान  in the 3/4 example ) .
The word bar is more common in  अंग्रेजों  English , and the word measure is more common  in  American English ,  हालांकि  musicians generally understand both usages .
In American English , although the  शब्द  bar and measure are often used  interchangeably  the correct use of the  शब्द  'bar ' refers  तभी  to the vertical line itself , while the word 'measure ' refers to the beats contained between bars .
In international usage , it is equally correct to speak  of  bar numbers and measure numbers , e.g .  ‘bars  9–16’ or ‘mm  .  9–16’ .
Along the same lines , it is wise to  आरक्षित  the abbreviated form ‘bb .
3–4’ etc  .  for beats only ; bars should be  referred  to by name in full .
The first metrically complete measure within a piece of music is called ‘bar 1’ or ‘m . 1’ .
When the piece begins  साथ  an  anacrusis  ( an incomplete  माप  at the head of a piece  of  music ) ,  ‘bar  1’ or ‘m  .  1’ is the following measure .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar  सौर  plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply  शक्ति  24 hours a day .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from the sun , has  महरूम  harnessed by humans  चूंकि  ancient times using a range of  ever-evolving   technologies   .
Solar  उर्जा  technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity , solar architecture and  कृत्रिम  photosynthesis , which  can  make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the  संसार   अभी  faces  .
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending  on  the way they capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active solar techniques include the use of  photovoltaic  panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun , selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International  उर्जा  Agency said that `` the  विकास  of affordable , inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase  countries’  energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible  और   ज़्यादातर  import-independent resource ,  बढ़ाएँ  sustainability ,  reduce  pollution , lower the costs  of  mitigating  जलवायु  change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
ये  advantages are global  .
hence  the additional costs  of  the incentives for early deployment should be considered  सीखना   निवेश  ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
प्राथमिक  care may  be  provided in community health centres .
Primary care is the health care given  by  a health care provider .
Typically this provider acts  as  the principal point of consultation for patients within a health  परवाह  system  और  coordinates other specialists that the patient may need .
Such a professional can be a primary care physician , such as a general practitioner or family physician , or depending on  the  locality ,  स्वास्थ्य  system organization , and patient 's discretion , they may see a pharmacist , a physician assistant  ,  a  नर्स  practitioner , a nurse (  ऐसे  as in the United Kingdom ) , a clinical officer  (  such as in  भाग  of Africa ) ,  or   an  Ayurvedic or other traditional medicine professional  (  such as in parts of Asia  )  .
Depending on the nature of the health condition , patients may  तब  be referred  लिये  secondary or  tertiary   परवाह  .
`` Ocean Avenue '' is a song recorded by American pop punk group Yellowcard .
It was released  in  February 2004 as the second single from  समंदर   एवेन्यू   और  the third track .
It is known for bringing them into the mainstream ,  as  it received numerous spins on MTV and increasing radio airplay .
समंदर  Avenue is a  गली   in  Jacksonville , Florida , the band 's stomping grounds near their high school , Douglas Anderson School of the Arts ,  और  another street  उल्लेखित  in the song , Cherry Street .
The name of Ocean  एवेन्यू  in Jacksonville is  दरअसल  Beach  boulevard  .
वे  left their original base behind when they moved to Los Angeles .
The song was featured on the Much Music compilation album Big Shiny Tunes 9 .
A psychiatrist is a physician who  specializes  in psychiatry .
A psychiatrist  specializes  in the  उपचार  of mental disorders .
Psychiatrists are authorized to prescribe medicine , conduct physical examinations ,  अनुक्रम  and interpret laboratory tests ,  उपयोग   मनोचिकित्सा  and may order brain imaging studies such as computed  टोमोग्राफी  ( CT/CAT Scan )  ,  magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , and positron emission tomography ( PET ) scanning  .
Within  the  framework of the World Health Organization 's ( WHO ) definition of health as a state of  पूरा  physical , mental and social  well-being  , and  नहीं  merely the absence of disease  or  infirmity ,  reproductive  health , or  यौन  health/hygiene , addresses the reproductive processes , functions and  प्रणाली  at all stages of life .
Reproductive health , therefore , implies that people are able to have  a  responsible , satisfying and  safer  sex life and that they have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if , when  और  how often to do so .
One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be informed of and to have access to safe , effective , affordable and acceptable methods of birth control ; also access to appropriate  स्वास्थ्य  care services of sexual  ,  reproductive medicine and implementation of health  शिक्षा  programs to stress the importance of women to go safely  through  pregnancy and childbirth could provide  युगल  with the best chance  of  having a healthy infant .
On the other hand  individuals  do face inequalities in reproductive health services .
Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic  औकात   ,  education level , age , ethnicity , religion ,  और  resources available in their environment .
It is possible  लिये  example , that  कम   आय  individuals lack the resources for appropriate health services and the knowledge to  जान  what is appropriate for maintaining reproductive health .
According to the WHO , `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health accounts for 20 % of the global burden of ill-health for women , and 14 % for men . ''
Reproductive health is a part of Sexual and reproductive health and rights .
This  is  a list of episodes for the Disney Channel original series The Suite Life on Deck ,  जिससे   aired  for three seasons on Disney Channel from September 26  ,   2008  to May 6 , 2011 .
Core 2 is  a  brand encompassing a range of Intel 's consumer 64-bit x86-64 single- , dual- , and quad-core  microprocessors   आधारित  on the Core microarchitecture .
The single- and dual-core models are single- die ,  whereas  the quad-core models comprise two dies , each containing two cores , packaged  in  a multi-chip module .
the  introduction of Core 2 relegated the Pentium brand to the mid-range market , and reunified  लैपटॉप  and desktop  cpu   लाइनों  , which previously had been divided into the Pentium 4 , Pentium D , and Pentium M brands .
The Core 2 brand was  introduced   on  27 July 2006 , comprising the  सोलो  ( single-core ) , Duo ( dual-core ) , Quad (  quad-core   )  , and in 2007 , the Extreme ( dual- or  quad-core  CPUs for enthusiasts )  subbrands  .
Intel Core 2 processors  साथ  vPro technology ( designed for businesses ) include the dual-core and quad-core branches .
The Super Bowl is the annual  चैंपियनशिप  game of the National Football League  (  NFL ) , the highest level of professional American football in the United States , culminating a season that begins in  the  late  गर्मियाँ  of the previous calendar year .
The Super Bowl uses Roman numerals to identify  प्रत्येक  game , rather than the year in which it is held .
लिये   उदाहरण  , Super Bowl  i  was played on January 15 , 1967 ,  following  the 1966 regular season  ,  while Super Bowl XLVII was played on February 3 , 2013 , following the 2012 season .
The game was created as  भाग  of a merger agreement between the NFL and its then-rival league , the  अमरीकी  Football League ( AFL ) .
It was agreed that the two leagues ' champion teams would play in an AFL–NFL World Championship  खेल  until the merger was to officially begin in  1970  .
After the merger , each league was redesignated as a `` conference `` , and the game was then played between  the  conference champions .
Currently , the National Football Conference ( NFC ) leads the series with 25 wins to 22  विन्स  for the American  फ़ुटबॉल  Conference  (  AFC ) .
The day on which the  सुपर  Bowl is played , now considered by some a  de  facto American national holiday , is called `` Super Bowl Sunday ``  .
It is the second-largest day for U.S. food consumption , after Thanksgiving  दिन   .
In addition ,  the   सुपर  Bowl has frequently been the most watched American television broadcast of the year .
Super Bowl XLV , played in 2011 , became the most-watched American television program in history , drawing an average audience  of  111 million viewers and taking over the spot held by  the  previous year 's Super  कटोरी  , which itself had taken over the # 1 spot held for  twenty-eight  years by the final  एपीसोड  of M*A*S*H  .
The Super  कटोरी  is also among the most watched sporting events in the world  ,  almost all being North  अमरीकी   ऑडियंस  , and is second to association  फ़ुटबॉल  ’s UEFA Champions League final as the  सबसे  watched  सालाना  sporting event worldwide .
Because of its high viewership  ,  commercial airtime during the Super Bowl broadcast is the most expensive of the year .
due  to the high cost of investing in advertising on  the  Super Bowl , companies regularly develop their  सबसे  expensive advertisements for this broadcast .
As a result ,  watching  and discussing the  ब्रॉडकास्ट  's commercials has become a significant aspect of the  इवेंट   .
In addition , many popular singers and  संगीतकारों   have  performed during the event 's pre-game and halftime ceremonies because of the exposure .
Fiona is a feminine given name .
The name Fiona was invented , and first used , by the Scottish poet James Macpherson (  1736–96  ) , author of the Ossian poems , which he claimed  यहूद  translations from ancient  गैलिक  sources ( sources , when  challenged  ,  he  never produced ) .
The name was subsequently used as a pseudonym by William Sharp (  1855–1905  ) , who authored several romantic works under  the  name `` Fiona Macleod  ''  .
The name  रै  since become popular in  इंग्लैण्ड  , Scotland and Ireland .
The name is  माना  to  be  a Latinised  रूप  of the Gaelic word fionn , meaning `` white '' , `` fair '' .
The name Fiona is also sometimes used as  an  Anglicisation  of  the Irish-language name Fíona  ,  although these names are otherwise  unrelated  (  as  Fíona  is  derived from an element  अर्थ  `` vine '' ) .
There is also a modern tendency to equate the authentic Scottish Gaelic feminine name Fionnghal with Fiona .
the  name Fiona is rising in popularity particularly in German -speaking countries  .
Fiona  थी  the  49th  most popular name for baby girls born in 2008 in Germany .
Fiona was tied for third place in the ranking of most popular names for baby girls born in the tiny principality of Liechtenstein  in   2008   .
The name  थी  the 347th most  लोकप्रिय  name for girls born in the United States in 2008 , where it  रै  ranked among the top 1,000 most popular names for girls since 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999 .
The name Fiona has been particularly popular for girls of Asian or Pacific Islander descent in New York City , where Fiona ranked as the ninth most popular name for girls from  those  groups in 2007 .
अनेक  languages  हैं  used , or historically have been used in  the  United States .
The most commonly used language is English .
There are also many  भाषाएं  indigenous to  उत्तर  America  or  to  u.S.  states or holdings in the  प्रशांत  region .
Languages brought to  the  country by colonists or immigrants from  यूरोपीय  , Asia , or other parts of the world make up  a  large  portion  of the languages currently used ; several languages , including creoles and sign languages , have also developed in the United States .
लगभग  337 languages are spoken or signed by the population , of which 176 are indigenous to the area .
fifty-two  languages formerly spoken in the  देश  's territory are now extinct .
The variety of English spoken in the United States is known as American English .
English is  the  de facto national language of the  संयुक्त  States , with 80 % of the population claiming  it  as a mother tongue  ,   और  some 95 % claiming to speak it `` well ''  or  `` very well '' .
However , no official language exists at the federal level .
There have been several proposals to make English the national language in amendments to immigration reform bills , but none of these bills has become law with the amendment  बरकरार  .
The situation is quite varied  at   the  state and territorial levels , with some states mirroring the federal policy of adopting no official language in a de jure capacity  ,  others adopting English alone , others officially adopting English as well as local languages  ,  and still others adopting a policy of de facto bilingualism .
Spanish is the  दूसरी  most common language  in  the country , and is spoken by over 12 % of the population .
The United States holds the world 's  पांचवां  largest Spanish-speaking population , outnumbered only by Mexico , Spain , Colombia , and Argentina .
Throughout the Southwestern United States , long-established Spanish-speaking communities coexist  साथ  large numbers of more recent Hispanophone immigrants  .
Although  अनेक  new Latin American immigrants are  कम  than fluent in  अंग्रेज़ी  , nearly all second-generation  हिस्पैनिक   अमेरिकी  speak English fluently , while only about half still speak Spanish .
According to the 2000 US census , people of German ancestry make up the largest single ethnic group in the United States , and the German language ranks fifth .
Italian , Polish , and French are still widely spoken among populations descending from immigrants from  those  countries in the early 20th century , but the use of these languages is dwindling as the older generations  die   .
Russian is also spoken by immigrant populations .
Tagalog and  वियतनामी  have over one million speakers each in the United States , almost entirely within recent  अप्रवासी  populations .
Both languages ,  साथ  with the varieties of the Chinese language ,  जापानी  , and Korean , are now used in elections in Alaska , California , Hawaii , Illinois ,  नई  York  ,   टेक्सास  , and Washington .
देशी  American languages are spoken in smaller pockets of the country , but these populations  हैं  decreasing , and the languages are almost never widely used outside of reservations .
Hawaiian , although having few native speakers , is an official language along with English  at  the state level in Hawaii .
The state government of Louisiana offers services and documents in French , as  करता  New Mexico  in  Spanish .
Besides English , Spanish ,  फ्रेंच  , German , Navajo and other  देशी  American languages ,  सब  other languages are usually learned from immigrant ancestors that came after the time of independence or learned  through  some form of education .
1990 's Pontiac  ग्रैंड  Am  सेडान  fender  और  quarter panel
On  an  automobile , a quarter panel  (  or rear wing as it is known in  अंग्रेजों  English ) is usually  माना  the body panel which goes between the  पश्च  door and the trunk and typically wraps around the wheel  खूब  ; however , the similar front section Fender ( vehicle ) , between the door and the hood , is sometimes incorrectly referred  to  as a quarter panel .
The quarter panel  is  typically made of Sheet metal , but is sometimes made of fiberglass or  fiber-reinforced  plastic ; although , this varies with different makes and models .
A quarter panel is typically a welded  on  component of  the  uni-body structure or Monocoque .
Replacement of a sheet metal quarter  फलक  typically requires it to be cut off the vehicle and a replacement part to be welded ( or sometimes  बंधुआ  ) to  the  Vehicle .
Due to this high amount  of   specialized   मजदूर  , a quarter panel may often be repaired rather  than  replaced by hammering out the damage , and a body  फिलर   sometimes   referred  to as bondo to be applied to finalize the  असली  surface  .
Shropshire ( or ; alternatively Salop ; abbreviated , in print only , Shrops  )  is a county in the West Midlands region of England .
It borders Wales to the west , Cheshire to the north  ,  Staffordshire to the east , Worcestershire to  the  south-east and Herefordshire  to  the south .
a   एकात्मक  authority ( Shropshire Council ) was created on 1 April 2009 , taking over from the previous county  परिषद  and 5 district councils , and covers  सबसे  of the county .
The borough of Telford and Wrekin has been a separate unitary  प्राधिकार  since 1998  लकिन  continues to be included in the  ceremonial  county .
the   काउंटी  's population and economy is centred on five towns : the county town of Shrewsbury , which is culturally  और   historically  important and is located  in  the centre of  the  county  ;  Telford , a  नई  town in the east which was constructed around a number of older  कस्बों  , most notably Wellington , Dawley  और  Madeley , which is today the most populous ; and Oswestry in the  north-west  , Bridgnorth just to the south of Telford , and  ludlow  in the south .
The county has many further market towns , including Whitchurch in the  उत्तर  , Newport  बस  to the north-east of Telford , and Market Drayton in the north-east of the  काउंटी  .
The Ironbridge Gorge area is  a  UNESCO World Heritage Site , covering Ironbridge  ,   coalbrookdale  and a part  of  Madeley  .
There  हैं   ,  additionally , other notable historic industrial sites located around the county , such as at Shrewsbury , Broseley , Snailbeach and Highley as well as the Shropshire Union Canal .
The  shropshire  Hills  क्षेत्रफल  of  बकाया  Natural Beauty covers  परिचय  a quarter of the county , mainly  in  the south .
Shropshire is one of England 's most rural and sparsely  आबादी  counties  ,  with the population  घनत्व  of the Shropshire Council  क्षेत्रफल  being just 91/km2 (  337/sq  mi  )  .
The Wrekin is one of the most famous natural landmarks in the county , though the highest hills are  the   clee   पहाड़ियाँ  , Stiperstones  और  the Long Mynd  .
Wenlock Edge is another significant geographical and geological landmark .
In the low-lying northwest of the  काउंटी   (  and overlapping the border with Wales ) is the Fenn 's , Whixall and Bettisfield Mosses National Nature Reserve , one of the most important and best  preserved  bogs in Britain .
The River Severn , Great Britain 's longest river , runs through the  काउंटी  ,  exiting  into Worcestershire via the Severn Valley .
Shropshire is landlocked , and with an area of , is England 's  largest  inland county .
The county flower is the round-leaved sundew .
For Eurostat purposes ,  the  county ( less the unitary district  of  Telford and Wrekin )  is  a NUTS 3  प्रदेश  ( code UKG22 ) .
the  two Shropshire  एकात्मक  areas ( covering all of the ceremonial county  )  , together with the authorities covering the ceremonial county of  staffordshire   ,  comprise the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region  .
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con 2009 , from left :  कुणाल  Nayyar , Simon Helberg , Kaley Cuoco , Jim Parsons , and Johnny Galecki
The American  sitcom   the  Big Bang Theory , created and  कार्यपालिका  produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady , premiered on CBS on September 24 , 2007 .
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter ,  दो  Caltech physicists  ;  Penny , a waitress  और  aspiring actress who lives across the hall  ;  and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz  ,  and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali .
Over time , several supporting characters have been promoted to starring  भूमिकाएँ  : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ) ,  a   physicist  colleague , and , at different times , a lover of both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette  rostenkowski-wolowitz  ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , a microbiologist , Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife , and  पूर्व  part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , who joins the  समूह  after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner , Stuart Bloom ( seasons  2–5  recurring  ;  season 6-present regular  )  , who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend  जब  Howard is in space .
The show  भी  features numerous supporting characters , each of  जिसको  plays a prominent role in a small group of episodes .
The A-Team is an American action-adventure television series , running from  1983  to 1987 ,  परिचय  a fictional group of ex– United States Army Special Forces personnel who work as  सैनिको  of fortune , while on the run  इससे   the  Army after being branded as war criminals for a `` crime they did n't commit `` .
a   विशेषता  film based on the series was released by 20th Century Fox on June 11 , 2010 .
A comic book series , A-Team :  shotgun  Wedding  ,  began March  9  , 2010 .
Diana Prince is  a  fictional character appearing regularly in stories published by DC Comics .
She debuted in Sensation Comics # 1 ( January 1942  )  and serves as the civilian and secret identity of the superhero Wonder Woman  .
The character was created by Charles Moulton and Harry G. Peter  .
Wat Phra Kaew , Bangkok ,  थाईलैंड
There  is  no official state religion in the Thai constitution , which guarantees  धार्मिक  freedom for all Thai citizens , though the king  is  required by law to  be  Buddhist .
According to  the  last census ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of Thais are Buddhists of the Theravada tradition .
Muslims are the second largest religious group in Thailand at 4.6 % .
Thailand 's southernmost provinces  -  Pattani , Yala  ,   narathiwat  and  भाग  of Songkhla Chumphon  have  dominant Muslim populations , consisting of both ethnic Thai and  मलय  .
The southern tip of Thailand is mostly ethnic Malays .
Christians , mainly Catholics ,  represent  0.7 % of the population .
A  छोटी  but influential community of Sikhs in Thailand and some Hindus also live in the country 's cities , and are heavily engaged in  खुदरा  commerce .
There is also a small Jewish community in Thailand , dating back to the 17th century .
Since 2001  ,  Muslim activists , generally described  by   the   थाई  government as terrorists or separatists  ,  have rallied against the central  सरकारी  because of alleged  भ्रष्टाचार  and ethnic bias  on  the part of officials .
Thailand 's Department of Religion , currently under the  मंत्रालय  of Culture , is formally responsible for the registration of religious groups in Thailand URL_http which hold properties through legally established foundations .
It has oversight ,  साथ  with the Immigration Police , over the  कार्य  permits of missionaries  जो  are `` expatriate  धार्मिक  workers ''  of  all  धर्मों  .
A value added tax ( VAT ) is a form of consumption tax .
From the perspective of the buyer , it is a tax on  the   खरीदें  price .
From that of the seller  ,  it is a tax only on the value added to a  उत्पाद  , material , or service , from an accounting point of view  ,  by this stage of its manufacture or distribution .
The manufacturer remits to the  सरकारी  the difference between these  दो  amounts , and retains the rest for themselves to offset the taxes they had previously paid on the inputs  .
The value added  to   a  product by or  साथ  a business is the sale price charged to  इसके  customer , minus the cost of  सामग्री  and other taxable inputs .
A VAT is like a sales tax in that ultimately only the end consumer  is  taxed .
it  differs from the  बिक्री  tax in that , with the latter , the tax is collected and remitted to the government only once ,  at  the point of purchase by  the  end consumer .
With the VAT , collections  ,  remittances to the government , and credits for taxes already paid occur each time a business in the supply chain purchases products .
A referee calling a high-sticking penaltyHigh
-sticking  is  the name  of  two infractions in the sport of  बर्फ  hockey that may occur when  a  player intentionally or inadvertently plays with his or her stick above the height of the shoulders or above the cross bar of  a  hockey goal .
This can result in a stoppage of play  or   in  a penalty  .
in  the rules of the National  हॉकी  League , high-sticking is defined as a  दंड  in Rule 60 and as a non-penalty foul in  नियम  80 .
A stoppage  in  play results if a high  स्टिक   आता  in contact with the puck and the team who  छुआ  it regains control of  the  puck .
However , play usually continues if a  खिलाड़ी  touches the puck with  a  high stick and the opposing team gains control  of  the puck .
If the puck goes into the opposing net  बाद  coming into contact with a high stick , the goal is disallowed .
The level at which a stick is considered too  ऊँची  for a goal is the crossbar of the net .
however  , if a player knocks the puck into his own  जाल  with  a  high  स्टिक  , the goal is allowed .
A penalty is assessed if a  खिलाड़ी  strikes another player with a high stick .
The player is given a minor penalty unless his high stick caused an injury , in which  मामला  the referee has the option to assess a double-minor , major or match penalty .
It is the referee 's discretion  जिससे  penalty to  assess  : the rule calls for a double minor for an accidental injury , or a match penalty for a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition player was actually injured ) .
Injury is usually decided by the high stick causing bleeding  ,  but the presence of blood  करता  not automatically mean an  अतिरिक्त  penalty is awarded .
Some referees have been known to award an extra penalty without  the  presence of blood if the referee determines that the injury sustained was sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty .
Typical modern memory card reader , compatible with many common formats
A memory card reader is a device ,  typically  having a  usb  interface , for accessing the data on a memory card such as  a  CompactFlash (  cf   )  , Secure Digital ( SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ) .
Most card readers also offer write capability , and together with the card , this can function as a pen drive  .
Some printers and personal computers  have   a   built-in   कार्ड  reader  .
A multi card reader is used for  संचार  with more than one type  of  flash memory card .
मल्टी  card readers do not have built-in memory capacity , but are able to accept multiple types and styles of memory cards .
The number of compatible memory cards varies from reader to reader and can include  अधिक  than 20 different types .
The number of different memory cards that a multi card reader can accept is expressed as x-in-1 , with x being a figure  of  merit indicating the number of  मेमोरी  cards accepted , such as  35-in-1  .
वहीँ  are three categories of card readers sorted by the type and quantity  of  the card slots : single card reader ( e.g . 1x SD-only ) , multi  कार्ड  reader ( e.g .  9-in-1  ) and series card reader ( e.g . 4x SD only ) .
Some kinds of memory cards with their own USB functions do not need the card reader , such  as  the Intelligent  स्टिक  memory card , which can plug directly into a USB slot .
The USB device class  प्रयुक्त  is 0x08  .
Bullying is detrimental to students '  well-being  and development  .
Bullying is the use of force or coercion to abuse  or   intimidate  others .
The behavior can be habitual and involve an imbalance of social  or  physical power .
It can include verbal harassment or threat , physical assault or coercion and may be directed repeatedly towards  particular  victims , perhaps on grounds of race , religion , gender  ,  sexuality , or ability  .
If bullying is done by a group , it is  पुकारा  mobbing .
The victim of bullying is sometimes referred to as  a  `` target '' .
Bullying can be defined in many different ways .
The UK currently has no legal definition  of  bullying , while  कुछ  U.S. states have laws against  it  .
Bullying consists  of  three basic types of abuse – emotional , verbal , and physical  .
It typically involves subtle methods of  coercion  such as intimidation .
Bullying ranges from  सरल  one-on-one bullying to more complex bullying in  जिससे  the bully may have one or more `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing  to  assist the primary bully  in  his or  उसके  bullying activities .
Bullying in school and the workplace is also referred to as  पीर  abuse  .
Robert W. Fuller has analyzed bullying in the context of rankism .
A bullying culture can develop in any  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  in which human beings interact with each other .
This includes school , church  ,  family , the workplace  ,  home , and neighborhoods .
Happy slapping  in  the Instituto Regional Federico Errázuriz , Santa Cruz , Chile
Laura Bush and Rae Leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on April 4 , 2007 , in Austin , Texas  ,  after the  8-year-old   introduced  Mrs. Bush during announcement of the future  खोलने  of the Texas  क्षेत्रीय  Office of  the  National Center for Missing and Exploited Children .
Rae Leigh  थी  the first child in the U.S. to be recovered as a result of an AMBER Alert when she was 8 weeks  बूढ़ा   in  November 1998  .
An AMBER  चेतावनी   or   a  Child Abduction Emergency ( SAME code  :  CAE ) is a child abduction alert  प्रणाली  originating in  1996  , now employed in 9 countries .
AMBER is officially a backronym for  अमेरिका  's Missing : Broadcasting Emergency Response , named for  एम्बर  Hagerman ,  a  9-year-old  abducted  and  murdered  in Arlington , Texas in 1996 .
Alternate regional alert names were once used ;  in  Georgia  ,  `` Levi 's Call '' ( named after Levi Frady )  ;  in Hawaii , `` Maile Amber Alert '' ( after Maile Gilbert ) ; and  अरकंसास  , ``  मॉर्गन  Nick Amber Alert '' ( in memory of Morgan Chauntel Nick ) .
AMBER Alerts are distributed via commercial radio stations  ,  Internet radio , satellite radio , television stations , and cable TV by the Emergency Alert System and NOAA Weather Radio ( where they are termed `` Child Abduction Emergency '' or `` Amber  चेतावनियाँ  '' ) .
The  चेतावनियाँ  are also issued via e-mail , electronic traffic-condition signs , the LED billboards which are located outside of newer Walgreens locations , along with the LED/LCD signs of billboard companies such as  साफ   चैनल  Outdoor ,  सीबीएस  Outdoor and Lamar , or through wireless device SMS  टेक्स्ट  messages .
AMBER Alert has also  teamed  up with Google and Facebook to relay information regarding an AMBER Alert to  an   कभी  growing demographic .
Those interested in subscribing  to  receive AMBER Alerts in their area via SMS messages can visit Wireless Amber Alerts , which are offered by law as free messages .
In some states , the display scrollboards  in  front of lottery terminals are also used .
the  decision to declare an AMBER Alert is made by each  पुलिस  organization ( in many cases , the state police or  राजमार्ग  patrol ) which investigates each of  the  abductions .
Public information in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the name  और  description of the abductee , a description of the suspected abductor , and a description and  अनुज्ञा  plate number of the abductor 's vehicle  ,  if available .
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born  जुलाई  23 ,  1973  ) is an American woman with whom United States President Bill  क्लिंटन  admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its  परखना  ( which included Clinton  's  impeachment ) became known  as  the Lewinsky scandal .
House of Night is a series of vampire -themed fantasy  novels  by American author  P.  C. Cast and her daughter  kristin  Cast .
It follows the adventures of Zoey Redbird , a sixteen-year-old girl who has just become a ``  fledgling  vampyre '' and is required to attend the House of Night boarding school in  तुलसा   ,  Oklahoma .
The series  रै   महरूम   on  the New York Times Best Seller list for 63 weeks and there are over seven million copies in  छपाई  in North America alone .
The sixth novel , Tempted ,  जिससे  went on sale on October 27 , 2009 with a first printing of a million copies , entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at  #  1 .
In  जनवरी   ,  2010 ,  gezeichnet  ,  a  German translation of Marked  ,  reached the # 1 spot  on  the  der  Spiegel bestseller list .
The  श्रेणी  has so far sold more than ten million books in  39  countries .
Burned was released  on  April 27 , 2010  ,  and like Tempted , it entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1 .
Awakened , released in January , 2011 ,  भी  entered the list at # 1 .
The series , which is published by St Martin 's Press is  नियोजित  to include twelve books .
In  2008  , plans for a film  अनुकूलन   यहूद  also announced .
The tenth book in the series , Hidden , was released on October 16 , 2012 .
The second book in the novellas ( which give backgrounds on supporting characters ) , Lenobia 's  प्रण  , was released January  31  ,  2012  .
Book eleven is currently called Revealed , and the Casts have announced that two more novellas , Neferet’s Curse , planned to be  released  February 19 ,  2013  , and a prequel novel about Kalona , are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and twelfth books .
In Greek mythology , the Trojan War was waged against the city of Troy  by  the Achaeans ( Greeks  )  after Paris of  ट्रॉय  took Helen from her husband Menelaus king of  स्पार्टा  .
The war is one of the most  महत्वपूर्ण  events in Greek mythology and has been narrated through many works of Greek literature , most notably through Homer 's Iliad and the Odyssey .
The Iliad relates a part  of  the last year of  the  siege of Troy ; the Odyssey describes Odysseus  's  journey home .
Other parts of the war are contained in a  साईकिल  of epic poems , which have  बच  through fragments .
एपीसोड  from the war provided material for Greek tragedy and other works of  यूनानी  literature ,  और  for  रोमन  poets including Virgil and Ovid .
The war originated from a quarrel between the goddesses Athena , Hera  ,  and  aphrodite  , after Eris ,  the  goddess of strife and discord , gave them a golden apple , sometimes known as the  ठहराना  of Discord , marked  ``  for the fairest '' .
Zeus sent the goddesses  to  Paris , who  judged  that Aphrodite  ,  as the ``  fairest   ''   ,  should receive  the  apple .
in  exchange , Aphrodite made Helen , the most beautiful of all women and wife of  menelaus  , fall in love with Paris , who took her to Troy .
Agamemnon , king of Mycenae and the brother of Helen 's husband Menelaus , led an expedition of Achaean troops to Troy and besieged the city  लिये  ten years because of Paris ' insult .
After the deaths of many heroes , including the Achaeans  achilles  and Ajax ,  और  the Trojans Hector and Paris  ,  the city fell to the ruse of the Trojan Horse .
The Achaeans slaughtered the Trojans ( except  लिये  some of the women and children whom they kept  or  sold as slaves ) and desecrated the  मंदिरों   ,  thus earning the gods  '  wrath .
Few of the Achaeans returned safely to their homes  और  many founded colonies in distant shores .
The Romans later traced their  उत्पत्ति  to Aeneas ,  एक  of the  ट्रोजन्स  , who was said to  have  led the  surviving  Trojans  to  modern-day Italy .
The ancient Greeks thought that the Trojan  युद्ध  was a historical  इवेंट  that had taken place in the 13th  or  12th century BC , and believed that Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles  .
By  आधुनिक   टाइम्स  ,  दोनो  the war and the city were  widely  believed to be non-historical .
In 1868 , however ,  the  German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann met  फ़्रैंक  Calvert , who convinced Schliemann that Troy was at Hissarlik and Schliemann took over Calvert 's excavations on property belonging to Calvert ;  इस  claim is now accepted by most scholars .
Whether there is any historical reality behind the  trojan  War is an  खोलें  question .
Many scholars believe that there is  a  historical core to the tale , though this may simply mean that the Homeric stories  हैं  a fusion of various tales of sieges and  रिझाने  by Mycenaean  यूनानियों  during the Bronze Age .
Those who believe that the stories  of  the Trojan War are derived from a  विशिष्ट  historical conflict usually date it to the 12th or 11th centuries BC ,  प्रायः  preferring the dates  दिए  by Eratosthenes  ,   1194–1184  BC , which roughly  corresponds  with archaeological evidence of a catastrophic burning of Troy  viia  .
Anarchists have employed certain symbols  लिये  their cause ,  सहित  most prominently the circle-A and the black flag , although anarchists have historically largely denied the importance of  प्रतीकों  to political movement .
Since the revival of anarchism  around  the start of the 21st-century concurrent with the rise of the anti-globalization movement , anarchist  सांस्कृतिक  symbols are widely present  .
The greater palatine  कनाल  ( or pterygopalatine canal  )  is a passage in the skull that transmits the greater palatine artery , vein  ,  and  तंत्रिका  between the pterygopalatine fossa and  the  oral cavity .
Surface temperature of Antarctica in winter and  गर्मियाँ  from the European  केन्द्र  for Medium-Range Weather  forecasts
The climate  of  Antarctica is the coldest on the whole of Earth .
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring  तापमान  ever recorded on the ground on Earth  :  −89.2 °C ( −128.6 °F ) at Vostok Station .
It is also extremely dry ( technically a desert ) , averaging 166 mm (  6.5  in ) of precipitation per year .
Even so , on most parts  of  the continent the snow rarely melts and  is   आखिरकार  compressed to become the  glacial   बर्फ  that makes up the ice sheet .
Weather fronts rarely penetrate far into the continent .
Most of Antarctica has an ice cap climate ( Köppen EF )  साथ  very cold , generally extremely dry weather throughout the year  और  no month averaging above 0 °C ( 32  °f  ) .
Some fringe coastal areas have a tundra climate ( Köppen ET  )  with a short summer averaging above freezing  ,  and much higher precipitation .
Current head coach Mike Tomlin , during  the  2007 season
The Pittsburgh Steelers franchise has had 16 head coaches throughout its history .
Founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates in , the name was changed to the Steelers prior to  the  season to celebrate the city 's heritage of producing steel .
Joe Bach  परोसा  two separate terms as head coach and Walt Kiesling served three separate terms .
During the and seasons , due to the amount of players who fought in World  युद्ध  II , the Steelers combined their team with Philadelphia and Chicago ,  क्रमशः  .
During these seasons , Steelers ' coach  वॉल्ट  Kiesling shared coaching duties with  चिकनी  Neale and Phil Handler , who have not been included within this list .
Struggling for much of the franchise 's early years , the team 's first  ऋतु  with more wins than losses was coached by Jock  sutherland  in  .
In , under Sutherland , the Steelers played  उनके  first playoff game against the Philadelphia Eagles .
Ten of the 16  सिर  coaches  खर्च  their entire professional coaching careers with the franchise , including John  mcnally  ,  वॉल्ट  Kiesling and Chuck Noll , who have also been voted into  the   प्रो  Football Hall of Fame .
One of only  चार  men to coach the same team for 23 years ,  चक  Noll retired in .
Noll is  भी  the  तभी  coach in National Football League history to  जीत  four Super Bowls .
Bill Cowher , Noll 's replacement , coached the Steelers to their fifth Super Bowl victory  ,  in 2005 .
The Steelers sixth Super Bowl win came in Super Bowl XLIII ,  जबकि  head coached by Mike Tomlin , the team 's current head coach .
In criminal law , fraud is  जानबूझकर  deception made for personal gain or to damage another  व्यक्तिगत   ;  the related adjective is fraudulent , and verb is defraud  .
धोखाधड़ी  is a crime and a civil  विधि  violation , though the  विशिष्ट  criminal law definition varies by legal jurisdiction .
Defrauding people  or   entities  of money  or  valuables  is  a common purpose of fraud .
A hoax also  involves  deception , but without the intention of gain or of damaging or depriving the victim .
धोखाधड़ी   is  a defense in a civil action  लिये  breach of contract or specific performance of a contract .
Fraud is a basis for equitable jurisdiction .
passover  , or Pesach ( from  :  in  यहूदी  , Yiddish ) ,  tiberian  : , Modern Hebrew : /ˈpesaχ/ Pesah , Pesakh , Yiddish :  peysekh  , Paysakh , Paysokh ) is an important  biblically  -derived Jewish festival .
Historically ,  साथ   साथ  Shavuot ( `` Pentecost ''  )  and Sukkot ( `` Tabernacles ''  )  , Passover is one of the three pilgrimage festivals ( Shalosh Regalim ) during which the entire population of the kingdom of  यहूदा  made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem .
Samaritans still make this pilgrimage to Mount Gerizim , but only men participate in public worship  .
Passover commences on  the  15th  of  the Hebrew month of Nisan and lasts for either seven  दिनों   (  in Israel )  or  eight  दिनों  ( in the diaspora ) .
In Judaism , a day commences at dusk and  lasts  until the following dusk , thus the first day of Passover  तभी  begins  बाद  dusk of the 14th of Nisan and ends  at  dusk of the 15th day of  the  month of Nisan .
The rituals unique to the Passover celebrations commence with the Passover Seder when the 15th of Nisan has begun .
In the Northern Hemisphere Passover takes place  in  spring as the Torah prescribes it : `` in the month of [  the  ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ) .
It is one of the most widely observed Jewish holidays .
The  यहूदी  people celebrate Passover as a commemoration of  उनके  liberation over 3,300 years ago by God from slavery  in  ancient Egypt that was  शासित  by the Pharaohs  ,  and their birth as a nation under the leadership of Moses .
It commemorates the story of the Exodus as described in the Hebrew Bible especially in the Book of Exodus  ,  in which the Israelites were freed from slavery in Egypt .
In the narrative of the Exodus , the Bible tells that God helped the Children of Israel escape  इससे  their slavery in Egypt by inflicting ten plagues upon the ancient Egyptians before the Pharaoh would release his Israelite slaves  ;  the tenth and worst of the plagues was the death of the Egyptian first-born .
The Israelites were instructed to mark the doorposts of their homes with the blood of a slaughtered spring lamb and , upon seeing this , the spirit of the  रब  knew to pass over the first-born in these homes , hence the name of the holiday .
There is some debate over where the term is actually derived from .
When the Pharaoh freed the Israelites  ,  it is said that they left in such a hurry that they could not wait for bread dough to rise ( leaven ) .
in  commemoration , for the duration of Passover no leavened bread is eaten  ,  for which reason it  is  called `` The Festival of the Unleavened Bread '' .
Thus Matzo ( flat unleavened bread ) is eaten during Passover and it is a symbol of the holiday .
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ) , officially designated 1P/Halley , is the best-known of the short-period  धूमकेतुओं  and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years  .
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye from Earth , and thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear  twice  in  a  human lifetime .
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter and more spectacular , but  होगा   appear  only once in thousands of years .
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have been observed  और  recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE .
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were  बना  by Chinese , Babylonian , and  मध्यकालीन  European chroniclers , but were not recognized as reappearances of  the  same  ऑब्जेक्ट  at the time .
The  धूमकेतु  's periodicity was  पहला  determined in 1705 by English astronomer Edmond Halley , after whom it is now named .
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner Solar  प्रणाली  in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061 .
During its 1986 apparition , Halley became the first comet to be observed  in  detail by spacecraft , providing the first  observational  data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation .
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction , particularly Fred Whipple 's  ``  dirty snowball '' model , which correctly predicted that Halley would  be  composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water  ,  carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust .
the  missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured  ये  ideas ; for  उदाहरण  it is now  समझा  that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty , non-volatile materials , and that only a small portion  of  it  is  icy .
Anti-communism is opposition to communism .
Organized  anti-communism   विकसित   in  reaction  to  the rise of communism , especially after the 1917 October Revolution in Russia and reaching global dimensions during the Cold War  .
Most anti-communists reject the concept of historical materialism , which is a central idea in Marxism .
Anti-communists reject the Marxist belief that capitalism will be  followed  by socialism and communism , just as feudalism was  followed  by  पूंजीवाद   .
Anti-communists question the validity of the Marxist  अर्जी  that the socialist state will `` wither away '' when it becomes unnecessary in a true communist society .
anti-communists  argue that the repression in  the  early years of Bolshevik rule , while not as extreme as that during Joseph  स्टालिन  's rule ,  थी  still severe by reasonable standards , citing examples such as Felix Dzerzhinsky 's secret  पुलिस  , which eliminated numerous political opponents by extrajudicial executions ,  और  the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov  विद्रोह  .
Some anti-communists refer to both Communism and fascism as totalitarianism , seeing similarity between  the   क्रियाएँ  of communist and fascist governments .
Historian Robert Conquest has  argued  that Communism was responsible for tens of millions of deaths during the  20th  century .
Opponents argue that Communist parties that have come to power have tended to be rigidly intolerant of political opposition .
ये  opponents claim that most Communist countries have shown no signs  of  advancing from Marx 's socialist  स्टेज  of economy to an ideal communist stage .
Rather , Communist governments have been accused of creating a  नई  ruling  क्लास  ( a Nomenklatura ) , with powers and  privileges  greater  than  those previously enjoyed by the upper  वर्ग  in the non- communist regimes .
Gil Heron  (  9 April 1922 – 27 November 2008 ) was a Jamaican professional footballer .
He was the first black player to play for Scottish club  सेल्टिक  , and was the father of poet and musician Gil  scott-heron   .
He died in Detroit of a heart attack on 27 November 2008 .
The soybean ( US ) or soya bean ( UK )  (  Glycine max )  is  a species of legume native to East Asia , widely grown for its edible bean which has numerous uses .
The plant is classed as an  oilseed  rather  than   a  pulse  by  the  un  Food and Agricultural Organization ( FAO ) .
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean meal is a significant  और  cheap source of protein for  एनिमल  feeds and  अनेक  prepackaged meals ; soy vegetable oil is  another  product of processing the soybean crop .
लिये  example , soybean products such as  textured  vegetable protein ( TVP ) are ingredients in many meat and dairy analogues .
Soybeans produce significantly more protein  प्रति  acre than most other uses of land .
Traditional nonfermented food uses of soybeans include soy milk , and from the latter tofu and  टोफू  skin .
Fermented  भोजन  include soy sauce , fermented bean paste , natto , and tempeh , among others  .
The oil is used in many industrial applications .
the  main producers of  सोया  are the United States ( 35 % ) , Brazil ( 27 % ) ,  अर्जेंटीना  ( 19 % ) , China (  6  % ) and India ( 4 % ) .
The beans  contain  significant amounts of phytic acid , alpha-linolenic  एसिड  ,  और  isoflavones  .
Harrison Ford (  born  July 13 ,  1942  ) is an American film actor and producer .
He is famous for his  प्रदर्शन  as Han Solo in the original Star Wars trilogy and the title character  of   the  Indiana Jones film series .
Ford is also known for his roles as Rick Deckard in Blade Runner , John Book in Witness and Jack Ryan in Patriot  खेल  and Clear and Present  खतरे  .
His career  रै   spanned  six decades and includes roles in several Hollywood blockbusters , including Presumed Innocent ,  the  Fugitive , Air Force One  ,  and What Lies Beneath .
At one  पाइंट  ,  चार  of the top six box-office hits of all time included one of his roles .
Five of his films have been inducted into the National Film Registry .
In 1997 , Ford was ranked No . 1 in Empire `` The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time  ''  list .
, the United  राज्य  domestic box office grosses of Ford 's  films  total over US $ 3.5 billion , with worldwide grosses surpassing  $  6 billion , making Ford the third highest grossing  u.S.  domestic box-office star .
Ford is the husband  of  actress Calista Flockhart .
a  tube  of  ChapStick
ChapStick is a brand name  लिये  lip balm  manufactured  by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare and used in many countries  विश्वव्यापी  .
it  is  intended  to help treat and prevent chapped lips ; hence the name .
Many varieties also  शामिल   सनस्क्रीन  in order to prevent sunburn .
Due to its popularity  ,  the term has become a  genericized  trademark .
It popularly refers to any  लिप  balm contained in  a  lipstick-style tube and applied in the same manner as lipstick .
However ,  the  term is still a  पंजीकृत  trademark , with rights exclusively owned by Pfizer  .
in  Sweden and in the United Kingdom , the product 's main competitor is Lypsyl , made by Novartis Consumer Health  ,  which is distributed in similar packaging to ChapStick .
George Berkeley (  ;  12  कूच  168514 January 1753  )  , also  ज्ञात  as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of Cloyne ) , was an Anglo-Irish philosopher whose primary achievement was the advancement of a theory he called `` immaterialism '' ( later  referred  to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ) .
This theory denies the existence of material substance and instead contends that familiar  वस्तुएँ  like tables and chairs are only ideas in the minds of perceivers , and as  a  result can not exist without being perceived .
Thus , as Berkeley famously put it , for physical objects `` esse est percipi '' ( `` to be is to be perceived `` ) .
Berkeley is also known for his critique of abstraction  ,  an important premise in his argument for immaterialism .
In 1709 , Berkeley published his  पहला  major work , ,  in  which he discussed the limitations of human vision and advanced the  सिद्धान्त  that the proper objects of sight are not material objects  ,  but light and colour .
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise Concerning the Principles  of  Human Knowledge in 1710 which , after its  ग़रीब  reception ,  he  rewrote in dialogue form and published under  the  title Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous in 1713 .
in  this book , Berkeley 's views were represented by Philonous ( Greek : 'lover of mind '  )  ,  जबकि  Hylas (  यूनानी  : 'matter  '  ) embodies the Irish thinker’s opponents ,  in  particular John Locke .
Berkeley argued against Sir  इसहाक़  Newton  's  doctrine of absolute space , time and motion in  de  Motu ( on Motion ) , published  1721  .
उसके  arguments were a precursor  to  the views of  mach  and Einstein .
In 1732 , he published  alciphron  ,  a  Christian apologetic against the free-thinkers ,  और  in 1734 , he published The Analyst , an empiricist critique of the foundations of infinitesimal  कलन   ,  which was influential in the development of mathematics .
उसके  last major philosophical work  ,  Siris ( 1744 )  ,  begins by advocating the medicinal use of tar water , and then continues to discuss a wide range of topics including science  ,  philosophy , and theology .
Interest  in  Berkeley 's work increased after World War II , because he tackled many  of  the issues of paramount interest to philosophy in the 20th century such  as  the problems of perception , the difference between primary  और  secondary qualities , and the importance of language .
Qingdao ( ) ,  historically  known as Tsingtao , is a major city in  पूर्वी  Shandong province , Eastern China , with a population of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ) .
Its built up area , made of  6  urban districts and 4 county-level cities , is home to about 4,896,000 inhabitants  in  2010 .
It borders Yantai to the northeast , Weifang to the  वेस्ट  and Rizhao to the southwest  .
Qīng (  )  in Chinese means ``  ग्रीन  '' or `` lush '' , while dǎo ( ) means `` island '' .
Qingdao is administered at the sub-provincial level .
Lying  आरपार  the Shandong Peninsula while looking out to the Yellow Sea , Qingdao is a major seaport , naval base  ,  and industrial  केन्द्र   .
It is also the site of the Tsingtao Brewery .
The world 's  longest  sea bridge , the Qingdao Haiwan Bridge , links the main urban area of Qingdao with Huangdao  ज़िला  , straddling the Jiaozhou  खाड़ी  sea areas .
Qingdao is named China 's most livable city .
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single identified species named Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( APMV ) ,  or  is a group of phylogenetically related large  वाइरस  ( designated usually MimiN ) .
in  colloquial speech , APMV is  अधिक  commonly referred to as just `` mimivirus '' .
Until October 2011 , when a larger virus Megavirus  chilensis  was described  ,  it had the largest capsid diameter of all known viruses .
Mimivirus has a  विशाल  and complex genome compared with most other viruses .
Mimivirus , short for `` mimicking microbe '' , is so called to reflect its large  आकार  and apparent Gram-staining properties  .
The Mexican  युद्ध  of Independence ( 1810–1821 ) was an armed conflict between  the  people of Mexico  और  the Spanish  औपनिवेशिक  authorities which started on September 16 , 1810 .
The movement , which became known as the Mexican War of Independence , was led by Mexican-born Spaniards ,  mestizos  and Amerindians who sought independence  इससे  Spain .
It started as an idealistic peasants '  विद्रोह  against their colonial masters ,  लकिन  ended as an unlikely alliance between Mexican ex-royalists and Mexican guerrilla insurgents .
Crohn 's disease , also known  as  Crohn syndrome and  क्षेत्रीय  enteritis , is a  प्रकार  of inflammatory bowel disease that may affect  कोई  part of the gastrointestinal tract  इससे  mouth to anus , causing a wide variety of symptoms .
It primarily causes abdominal pain , diarrhea (  जिससे  may be bloody if inflammation is at its worst ) , vomiting ( can be continuous ) ,  or  weight loss , but may also cause complications outside the gastrointestinal tract such as skin rashes  ,  arthritis  ,  inflammation of the eye , tiredness , and lack of concentration .
Crohn 's disease is caused by interactions between environmental , immunological and bacterial  कारकों  in genetically susceptible individuals .
इस  results in a  दीर्घकालिक  inflammatory disorder  ,  in which the body 's immune system attacks the gastrointestinal tract  संभवतः   निर्देशित  at  सूक्ष्मजैविक  antigens .
Crohn 's disease has wrongly been described as an autoimmune disease in the past ; recent investigators have described it as an immune deficiency state .
There is  a  genetic association with Crohn 's disease , primarily with  विसंगतियाँ  of the NOD2 gene and its  प्रोटीन  , which senses bacterial cell walls .
Siblings  of  affected individuals are  at  higher risk .
Males and females are equally  प्रभावित  .
Smokers are two times more likely to develop Crohn 's disease than nonsmokers .
Crohn 's disease affects  between  400,000  और  600,000 people in North America  .
Prevalence estimates for Northern Europe have ranged from 27–48  प्रति  100,000 .
Crohn 's disease tends to present initially in the teens and twenties  ,  with another peak incidence in the fifties to seventies , although the disease can occur  at  any age .
There is no known pharmaceutical or surgical cure for Crohn 's  बीमारी  .
Treatment options are  प्रतिबंधित   to  controlling symptoms  ,   maintaining  remission , and preventing  पतन  .
the  disease was named after gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn , who , in 1932 , together with two other colleagues at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York , described a series of  मरीजों  with inflammation of the terminal ileum , the area most  commonly  affected by the  बीमारी  .
This is  an  incomplete list of the tallest  इमारतें  and structures by country .
The list directly includes the  tallest  buildings and structures for each  देश   ,  and where  उचित  , it also points to more detailed country-specific lists .
Rough and Ready is a census-designated place in  नेवाडा  County  ,  California , United  राज्य  .
It is located west of Grass Valley , California , approximately 62 miles ( 100 km ) from Sacramento .
The population was 963 at the 2010 census .
YouTube is a  video-sharing  website , created by three former PayPal employees in February 2005 , on which users can upload , view and share videos .
the  company is based in San Bruno , California , and  उपयोग   adobe  Flash Video and HTML5 technology to display a  चौड़ी  variety of user-generated video content , including movie clips , TV clips , and  म्यूज़िक  videos , as well as amateur content such as video blogging , short original videos , and educational videos .
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals  ,  although media corporations including CBS  ,  the BBC  ,   vevo  , Hulu , and other organizations offer some of their material via the site , as part of the YouTube partnership program .
Unregistered users  can  watch videos , while registered users can upload an unlimited number of videos .
Videos considered to contain potentially offensive content are available only to registered users at least 18 years old .
In November 2006 ,  youtube  ,  llc  was bought by Google for US $ 1.65 billion , and operates as a subsidiary of  google  .
Sister Act is a musical written by  cheri  Steinkellner and Bill Steinkellner with additional book material by Douglas  कार्टर  Beane ,  साथ  lyrics  by  Glenn Slater  और  music by  एलन  Menken .
It is based on the hit 1992 film comedy  of  the same name .
The 2009 West End production was produced by Stage Entertainment , Whoopi Goldberg , and Michael Reno for  सिस   अधिनियमों  LLC .
Goldberg is also a producer of the 2011 Broadway adaptation .
Microsoft DirectX is a collection of application  प्रोग्रामिंग  interfaces ( APIs ) for handling tasks related to multimedia , especially  खेल  programming and video , on Microsoft platforms .
Originally ,  the  names  of  these APIs all began with Direct  ,  such as Direct3D , DirectDraw , DirectMusic , DirectPlay , DirectSound , and so forth .
The name DirectX  थी   coined  as shorthand term  लिये  all of these APIs ( the X standing in for the particular API names ) and soon became the name of the collection .
When Microsoft later  नियत  out  to  develop a gaming console , the X was used as the basis of the name Xbox to indicate that the console was based on DirectX technology .
The X  आरंभिक  has been  carried  forward in the naming of  api  designed for the Xbox such as XInput and the Cross-platform  ऑडियो  Creation  औजार  ( XACT ) , while the DirectX pattern  रै  been continued for Windows APIs such as Direct2D and DirectWrite .
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics API within DirectX ) is widely used in the development  of  video games for Microsoft  खिड़कियाँ  , Microsoft Xbox , Microsoft Xbox 360 and some Sega Dreamcast games .
Direct3D is also used  by   अन्य  software  अनुप्रयोग  for visualization and graphics tasks such as CAD/CAM engineering .
As Direct3D is  the   सबसे  widely publicized component of DirectX , it is common to see the  names  `` DirectX '' and `` Direct3D '' used interchangeably .
The DirectX software development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime libraries in  redistributable   शब्दकोष   रूप  , along with accompanying documentation and headers for use in coding .
Originally , the runtimes  यहूद  only installed  by  games or explicitly by the user .
Windows 95 did not launch with DirectX , but DirectX was included with Windows 95 OEM  सेवा  Release  2  .
Windows 98 and  खिड़कियाँ  NT 4.0 both shipped with  डाइरेक्टएक्स  , as has every version of Windows released since .
the  SDK is available as a free download .
While the  runtimes  are proprietary , closed-source software ,  सोर्स  code is provided  लिये  most of the SDK  नमूने  .
starting  with the release of Windows 8 Developer  पूर्वावलोकन  , DirectX SDK has been integrated  into  Windows SDK .
Direct3D 9Ex , Direct3D 10  ,  and  direct3d   11  are only available for  खिड़कियाँ  Vista and newer because each of these new  संस्करण  was built to  निर्भर  upon the  नई  Windows Display Driver Model that was introduced for Windows Vista  .
The new Vista/WDDM graphics architecture includes a new video memory  मैनेजर  supporting virtualization of graphics  हार्डवेयर  for various applications and services like the Desktop Window Manager .
Quetzaltenango , also commonly known  by  its indigenous name , Xelajú ,  or  more commonly , Xela , is the second largest city of Guatemala .
It is both the capital of Quetzaltenango Department and the municipal seat of Quetzaltenango municipality .
It has an estimated population of 224,703 .
The population is about 61 % indigenous  or  Amerindian , 34  %  Mestizo or ladino and 5 % European .
quetzaltenango  is  स्तिथ  in a mountain valley at an elevation  of  2,330 meters ( 7,655  ft  ) above sea level  at  its lowest part .
it  may reach  ऊपर  2,400 meters within the city .
The Municipality of Quetzaltenango consists of an area of .
Municipalities  abutting  the municipality  of  Quetzaltenango include : Salcajá  ,  Cantel , Almolonga , Zunil  ,   el   palmar  , Concepción Chiquirichapa  ,  San Mateo , La Esperanza , Olintepeque ,  और  San Andrés Xecul .
All these municipalities are part of the Department of Quetzaltenango , except San Andrés Xecul which is a part of the  विभाग  of Totonicapán .
The Epic of Gilgamesh , an epic poem from Mesopotamia , is amongst  the  earliest  surviving  works of literature .
the  literary  इतिहास  of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems about  'bilgamesh  ' (  sumerian  for Gilgamesh ) ,  किंग  of Uruk  .
Four of  ये  were used  as  source material for a combined epic in Akkadian .
This first combined epic , known as the ``  बूढ़ा   babylonian  '' version , dates to the  18th  century BC and is  titled  after its incipit , Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ) .
Only a few fragments of it have survived .
the  later  ``   मानक  Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th centuries BC and bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru  (  `` He who Saw the Deep '' )  .
Fragments of approximately two thirds of this longer , twelve-tablet version have been recovered .
Some of the best copies were discovered in the library  तबाह   of  the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal .
The story centers  on  a friendship between Gilgamesh  और  Enkidu .
Enkidu is a wild man created by the  देवताओं  as  gilgamesh  's equal to distract him  इससे  oppressing the people of Uruk .
Together  ,  they journey to the Cedar Mountain to defeat Humbaba , its monstrous guardian .
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven , which the goddess Ishtar sends to punish Gilgamesh for spurning her advances .
As a punishment  लिये  these actions , the gods sentence Enkidu to death .
The second half of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's distress at Enkidu 's death , and  उसके  quest for immortality .
In order to learn the secret  of  eternal life ,  gilgamesh  undertakes a long and perilous journey  .
He learns that `` The life that you are seeking you will never  ढूँढें  .
When the gods created man they allotted to him death , but life they retained in their own keeping . ''
This  उद्धरण   थी  originally  attributed  to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version  of   the  epic , and then attributed to  the  immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in  the  Akkadian version of  the  epic .
Nevertheless  ,  Gilgamesh 's fame  जिया  on after his death , because of his great building projects , and his account of what Utnapishtim told  उसे  happened during the flood  .
The story has been translated into  अनेक  different languages  ,  and Gilgamesh has since become adapted in  works  of popular fiction .
There are numerous debates over who created the first video game , with the answer depending largely on how video games are  पारिभाषित  .
The evolution of video games represents a  उलझे  web  of  several different industries , including scientific , computer , arcade , and consumer electronics  .
The `` video '' in `` video game `` traditionally refers  to   a  raster display device .
साथ  the popular catch phrase use of  the  term `` video game  ''  , the term now implies all display types , formats , and platforms .
Historians have also sought to bypass the  समस्या  by instead using the more specific  ``  digital games '' descriptive .
इस  term leaves out the earlier analog-based computer games .
This is a list of best-selling video game franchises that have  बेची   or  shipped  at  least 5 million copies .
Unless otherwise stated , numbers indicate worldwide units sold , ordered alphabetically whenever two or more list  the  same amount .
The exception are the  ones  specifying shipments ,  जिससे  have lower precedence than others listing sales .
Franchise sales include expansion packs even  हालांकि  they are not considered full video games .
For  best-selling  individual video  खेल  , see List of best-selling video  खेल  .
The sales figures given below do not include arcade game sales , which can be found at List of highest-grossing arcade video games .
– This  रंग  indicates a sub-series of a larger video game franchise .
This does not necessarily apply for series that are not  वीडियो  game-based  .
Dorothy Ann Willis Richards ( September 1 , 1933 –  सितंबर  13 , 2006 ) was an American politician and the 45th Governor of Texas .
वो  first  आए  to national attention as  the  state treasurer of Texas , when she delivered the keynote address at  the  1988 Democratic National Convention .
रिचर्ड्स  served  as  the 45th Governor of Texas  इससे  1991 to 1995 and was defeated for re-election in 1994 by  जार्ज  W. Bush .
Ann Richards was the second female governor of Texas .
Data Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a security feature included in modern operating systems .
It is known to be  उपलब्धियाँ  in Linux , Mac OS X , iOS , Microsoft Windows  और  Android operating  प्रणालियों  and is intended to prevent an application or service from executing  कोड  from a non-executable memory region .
This helps prevent certain exploits that store code via a buffer overflow , for example .
dep  runs in two modes : hardware-enforced DEP for CPUs that can mark memory pages as nonexecutable , and software-enforced DEP with limited protection for CPUs that do not have hardware  support  .
Software-enforced  dep  does not protect against execution of code in data  पृष्ठों  ,  लकिन  instead counters SEH overwrite ,  another  type of attack  .
DEP was introduced on Linux in 2004 ( kernel 2.6.8 ) , on Windows in 2004 with Windows XP Service Pack 2 , while Apple introduced DEP when they moved to x86 in  2006  .
Example illustration of  दो  common futanari variants
, is  the   जापानी  word for hermaphroditism , which  is  also used in a broader sense for androgyny .
Beyond Japan the term  is  used  to  describe a commonly pornographic genre of computer games , comics and animations  ,  which includes characters that show both primary sexual characteristics .
But in today 's language it  refers  almost exclusively  लिये  characters  जो  have an overall feminine appearance .
In that case the  पद  is also often abbreviated as futa ( s ) , which is occasionally also used as term for the works itself .
Early CAPTCHAs such as these , generated by the EZ-Gimpy program , were used  on  Yahoo !
A modern CAPTCHA , rather than attempting to create a distorted background and high levels of warping on the text , might  फ़ोकस  on making segmentation difficult by adding an angled line .
Another way to  मेक  segmentation  मुश्किल  is to crowd  प्रतीकों  together , as in Yahoo ! 's current CAPTCHA format  .
Some CAPTCHAs try to utilize the ability of people to see three-dimensional objects .
On this image , symbols  हैं  drawn with lines  of  different thickness to make an effect  of  extrusion .
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response test  प्रयुक्त  in computing as an attempt to ensure that the response is generated by a human being .
The process usually  involves  a computer asking a user to complete a simple test which the  कंप्यूटर  is able to  ग्रेड  .
These tests are designed to be easy for a computer to generate but difficult for a computer to solve , but again easy for a human .
If a correct solution is  प्राप्त  , it can be presumed to have been entered by a human .
A  आम  type of CAPTCHA requires the user to type letters and/or digits from a distorted image that appears on the screen .
Such tests are commonly  प्रयुक्त  to prevent unwanted internet bots from accessing websites , since  a  normal human can easily read  a  CAPTCHA , while the bot can not  प्रक्रम  the image letters  और  therefore , can not answer properly , or at all .
Although most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated  ,  many of them have become  मुश्किल  even for a human to read , so picture CAPTCHAs were created in which a  इंसान  is shown a simple test to show  a  picture of a certain animal ( given few  एनिमल  pictures )  ,  which is simple for a human being to process  ,  and therefore easy to pick ,  जबकि  a bot can not process and solve the question because although it can analyze the  चित्र  , it can not easily guess the animal  .
The term `` CAPTCHA '' was  coined  in 2000 by Luis von Ahn , Manuel Blum  ,  Nicholas  J.  Hopper , and John Langford ( all  of  Carnegie Mellon University ) .
It is an acronym based on the word  ``  capture '' and standing for `` Completely  स्वचालित   पब्लिक  Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart ''  .
Carnegie Mellon University attempted to trademark the term on 15 October  2004  , but the trademark application was  abandoned  on 21 April 2008  .
A CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a  रिवर्स  Turing test , because it is administered by a  यंत्र  and targeted at  a  human ,  in  contrast to the standard Turing test that is  typically  administered by a human  और  targeted at a  यंत्र  .
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly  ज्ञात  in English as Jacques Cousteau ; 11 June 1910 – 25 June 1997 ) was a French naval officer , explorer , conservationist , filmmaker  ,  innovator , scientist , photographer , author and researcher who studied  the  sea and all forms of life  in  water .
He co-developed the  aqua-lung  , pioneered marine conservation and was a member of the Académie française .
KFC ( Kentucky Fried  मुर्गा  ) is a fast  खाना  restaurant chain headquartered in Louisville , Kentucky , United States , which specializes in fried chicken  .
An ``  अमरीकी  icon '' , it is the world 's second largest restaurant chain overall ( as  measured  by sales  )  after McDonald 's , with over 18,000 outlets in 120 countries and territories .
The company is a subsidiary of Yum  !
Brands ,  a  restaurant company which also owns Pizza Hut and Taco Bell .
KFC was founded by Harland Sanders , who began selling fried chicken from his  roadside  restaurant in Corbin , Kentucky during the Great Depression .
Sanders was one of  the  first people to see the potential of the restaurant franchising concept , with the first  ``  Kentucky Fried Chicken '' franchise opening in Utah in 1952 .
The franchise popularized chicken in the fast  खाना  industry , thereby diversifying the market and challenging the dominance of the hamburger .
Marketing himself as `` Colonel Sanders '' , he became a  legendary  figure  of  American  सांस्कृतिक  history , and  उसके  image is still prominently used in KFC branding  .
The company 's rapid expansion  देखी  it grow too large for Sanders to manage , and in 1964  he   बेची  the company to  a  group of investors led  by  John Y . Brown , Jr. and Jack Massey .
KFC was one of the  पहला  fast food chains to expand internationally , opening outlets in England , Mexico and Puerto Rico by the mid-1960s .
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s , KFC experienced mixed fortunes domestically , as it went through a series  of  corporate owners  जो  had little or no experience  in  the restaurant business .
In the early 1970s , KFC was sold to the spirits firm Heublein  ,  who were taken over  by  the R.J. Reynolds food and tobacco conglomerate , who sold  the  chain to PepsiCo .
The chain continued to expand overseas however  ,  and in 1987 KFC became the first Western restaurant chain to  खोलें   in  China .
The chain has since expanded rapidly in China , and the country is now the company 's most profitable market .
PepsiCo  spun  off its restaurants division as Tricon Global Restaurants , which later changed its name to Yum !
ब्रांड्स   .
KFC primarily sells fried chicken  टुकड़े  and variations such  as   मुर्गा  sandwiches and wraps , salads and side dishes such as French fries and coleslaw , desserts and soft drinks , often supplied by PepsiCo .
Its  सबसे  famous product is pressure fried chicken pieces , seasoned with Sanders ' `` Original Recipe '' of  11   herbs  and spices .
The exact nature of these ingredients is unknown , and represents  a  notable trade secret  .
Larger  portions   of  fried chicken are served in a distinctive cardboard `` bucket '' ,  जिससे  has become a  हस्ताक्षर  of the chain since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman .
KFC is famous  लिये  the slogan `` finger lickin ' good '' , which has since been replaced by `` Nobody  करता  chicken like KFC '' and `` So good ''  .
Cnidaria ( with  a   मूक  c ) or Coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 species of animals found exclusively in aquatic and mostly marine environments .
Their distinguishing feature is cnidocytes , specialized cells  कि  they use mainly for  capturing  prey .
Their bodies consist of mesoglea  ,  a non-living jelly-like substance , sandwiched between  दो  layers  of  epithelium that are mostly  एक  cell thick  .
वे  have two basic body forms :  तैराकी  medusae and sessile polyps , both of which are radially symmetrical with mouths surrounded by tentacles that bear cnidocytes  .
Both forms  have  a single orifice and body cavity that are used for digestion and respiration .
Many cnidarian species produce colonies that are single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids , or both .
Cnidarians ' activities  हैं  coordinated by a decentralized nerve net  और  simple receptors .
Several free-swimming Cubozoa and Scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts , and some have simple eyes .
Not all cnidarians reproduce sexually .
Many have complex  lifecycles  with asexual  polyp  stages and sexual medusae  ,   लकिन  some omit either the  polyp   or  the medusa stage .
Cnidarians were for a long time grouped  साथ  Ctenophores in the phylum Coelenterata , but increasing  जागरूकता  of their  मतभेद  caused them to be placed in separate  phyla   .
Cnidarians are classified into four main  समूह  : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea anemones , corals , sea pens ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jellyfish )  ;  Cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; and Hydrozoa , a diverse group that includes  सब  the  freshwater  cnidarians as well as many marine  फ़ॉर्म  , and has both  स्थानबद्ध  members such as Hydra and colonial swimmers such as the Portuguese Man  o  ' War .
Staurozoa have recently been recognised as a class in their own right rather than a sub-group of Scyphozoa , and there is  बहस  about whether Myxozoa and Polypodiozoa are cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more complex  पशु  ) .
Most cnidarians prey on  जीवों  ranging in size from plankton to animals several times larger than themselves , but  अनेक  obtain much of their nutrition from  endosymbiotic  algae , and a  few  are parasites .
Many are preyed upon by other animals including starfish , sea slugs , fish and turtles .
Coral reefs , whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic algae , support  कुछ  of the world 's most productive ecosystems , and  protect   वनस्पति   in  tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides .
While corals are almost entirely restricted to warm , shallow marine waters , other cnidarians  सजीव  in the depths , in polar seas and in freshwater .
Fossil cnidarians have been found in rocks formed about ,  और  other fossils show that corals may have been present shortly before and diversified a few million  सालो  later .
Fossils of cnidarians that do not build mineralized structures are  बहुत  rare .
Scientists currently think that cnidarians , ctenophores and bilaterians  हैं  more closely related to calcareous sponges than these are to other sponges , and that anthozoans are the evolutionary `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians ,  और  the most closely related to bilaterians .
Recent analyses have  concluded  that cnidarians , although  माना   अधिक  `` primitive '' than bilaterians , have a wider range of genes .
The Aztec Pyramid at St. Cecilia Acatitlan , Mexico State .
Aztec jade mask depicting the god Xipe Totec .
Large ceramic statue of an  एज़टेक  Eagle Warrior
Aztec cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic Codex Fejérváry-Mayer - the fire god Xiuhtecuhtli  is   in  the center .
the  Aztec people were certain ethnic groups of  सेंट्रल  Mexico , particularly those groups who spoke the Nahuatl language  और  who  वर्चस्व  large parts of Mesoamerica from the  14th  to  16th  centuries .
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) and aztecah ( plural ) mean `` people from Aztlan `` , a mythological place for  the  Nahuatl-speaking culture of the time , and later adopted as the word to  define  the Mexica people .
Often the term ``  एज़टेक   ''  refers exclusively to the Mexica people of Tenochtitlan ( now the location of Mexico  नगर  )  ,  situated on an island in Lake Texcoco , who referred  to  themselves as Mexica  tenochca   or  Cōlhuah Mexica .
sometimes  the term also includes the inhabitants of  tenochtitlan  's two principal allied  city-states  , the Acolhuas of Texcoco and the Tepanecs of Tlacopan , who together with the Mexica formed the Aztec Triple Alliance which controlled what is  प्रायः  known as  ``   the  Aztec Empire '' .
In other contexts , Aztec may refer to all the various city states and their peoples ,  जो   साझा  large parts of  उनके  ethnic history and  सांस्कृतिक   traits  with the Mexica , Acolhua and Tepanecs , and who often also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca .
In this meaning it  is  possible to talk about an Aztec civilization including all the particular cultural patterns common for most of the peoples inhabiting Central Mexico in the  लेट  postclassic  काल  .
From the 13th century , the  घाटी  of Mexico was the  दिल  of Aztec civilization : here  the  capital  of  the Aztec Triple Alliance , the city of Tenochtitlan , was built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco .
The Triple Alliance formed a  उपनदी  empire expanding its political hegemony far  परे  the Valley of Mexico , conquering other city states  throughout  Mesoamerica .
At its pinnacle , Aztec culture had rich  और  complex mythological and religious traditions , as well as  reaching  remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments .
In 1521  hernán   cortés  , along with a large number of Nahuatl  बोलना  indigenous allies , conquered Tenochtitlan and defeated the Aztec Triple Alliance under the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II .
Subsequently the Spanish founded the new settlement of Mexico  नगर  on the site of the ruined Aztec  पूंजी  , from where they proceeded with the process of colonizing Central America .
Aztec culture and history is primarily known through archaeological evidence found in excavations such as that of the renowned Templo Mayor in Mexico  नगर  ; from indigenous bark paper codices ; from eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors such as Hernán Cortés and Bernal  díaz   डेल  Castillo ; and especially from 16th and 17th century descriptions of Aztec  संस्कृति  and history written by Spanish clergymen and literate Aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl language , such as the famous  florentine  Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous Aztec informants .
Anderson Hays Cooper ( born June 3 , 1967 ) is  an  American journalist ,  लेखक   ,  and television personality .
He is the primary anchor of the CNN news show Anderson Cooper 360° .
The program is normally broadcast live from a New York City studio ; however , Cooper often  प्रसारण  live on location for breaking news stories  .
As of September 2011 , he  भी   serves  as  मेजबान  of his own eponymous syndicated daytime talk  दिखाएँ  , Anderson Live , which will be cancelled  at   the  end of the second season .
A plot of a normal distribution ( or bell-shaped curve ) where each band  रै  a width of 1 standard deviation – See also : 68-95-99.7  नियम
Cumulative probability of a normal distribution with expected value 0 and standard deviation 1 .
in   आंकडे  and probability theory , standard  विचलन  ( represented by the symbol sigma , σ ) shows  कैसा  much variation or dispersion  exists  from the average ( mean  )  , or expected value .
a  low  मानक  deviation indicates that  the  data points tend to  be  very close to the mean ; high standard deviation indicates that the data points  हैं  spread out over a large range of values .
The standard deviation  of  a random variable , statistical population , data set , or probability distribution is the square root of its variance .
It is algebraically  simpler  though  practically  less robust than the average absolute deviation .
A useful property of standard deviation is that , unlike variance , it is expressed  in  the  वही  units as the data .
Note , however , that for measurements with percentage as unit , the  मानक  deviation will have percentage points as unit .
In addition to expressing the variability of a population ,  मानक  deviation is commonly used to measure confidence in statistical  conclusions  .
For example , the margin of error in polling  आंकड़ा  is determined by calculating the expected standard deviation in the  परिणाम  if the  वही  poll were to  be  conducted multiple times .
The  reported   हाशिया  of error is typically about twice  the  standard deviation ­–  the  radius  of   a  95 percent confidence interval .
In science , researchers commonly report the standard deviation of experimental data , and  तभी  effects that fall far outside the range of  मानक  deviation are considered statistically  significant  – normal random error or variation in the  माप  is in  इस  way distinguished from causal variation .
Standard deviation is also important in finance , where the standard deviation on the rate of return on  an  investment is a measure of the volatility of the  निवेश  .
When only a sample of data from a population is available , the  मानक  deviation  of  the population can be estimated by  a  modified quantity called the `` sample standard deviation '' .
When the sample is the entire population , its unmodified standard deviation is called the `` population standard deviation  ''  .
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( Ullucus tuberosus ) is a plant grown primarily as a  रूट  vegetable , secondarily as a leaf vegetable .
The ulluco is one of the most widely grown  और  economically important root  फसलों   in  the  andean   प्रदेश  of  दक्षिण  America  ,  second only to the potato .
It is known there with the common name of papa lisa , but also by the regional names melloco  (  Ecuador  )  , olluco ( Peru ) , chugua  (  Colombia ) or ruba (  वेनेजुएला   )   ,  among others .
The leaf and the tuber  हैं  edible , similar to spinach and the potato , respectively .
They are known to contain high levels of protein , calcium , and  केरोटीन  .
Papalisa  यहूद  used by the Incas prior to arrival of Europeans in South America .
Ulluco tubers are marketed as `` Earth Gems  ''  in New Zealand , by Halfords Exotic Produce .
Ulluco tubers in New Zealand
An April 24 ,  1851  poster  चेतावनी   the  `` colored  लोगों  of Boston '' about policemen acting as slave catchers .
The Fugitive Slave  विधि   or  Fugitive Slave Act was passed by  the  United States Congress  on  September 18 , 1850 , as part of the Compromise of 1850 between Southern slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers  .
This was one of the most controversial acts of the  1850  compromise and heightened Northern fears of a `` slave power conspiracy '' .
It declared that all runaway  स्लेव  were , upon capture , to be returned to  उनके  masters .
Abolitionists nicknamed it the `` Bloodhound Law '' for the dogs  कि  were used to  track  down runaway slaves .
Frank  जोसेफ  Pallone , Jr. ( born October  30  , 1951 ) is  the  U.S. Representative for , serving since 1993 .
He is a member of the Democratic Party .
he  previously represented the 3rd district from 1988 to 1993 .
Trin-i-tee 5:7 is a gospel duo from New Orleans , Louisiana in the United States .
The  समूह  was marketed as a  इन्जील  alternative  to  R & B girl groups such as Destiny 's Child and TLC  .
Trin-i-tee 5:7 has sold over  2.5  million albums .
In 1998 , the group released their first album entitled Trin-i-tee 5:7 which  डेब्यू  at # 1 on the Top Gospel charts .
the  album  प्रदर्शित  the songs `` God 's Grace ''  और  the cover song `` Oh !
Mary Do n't You Weep  ''  .
The album later became certified gold  .
In 1999 , Terri Brown left the group and was later replaced by singer  एड्रियन  Anderson .
During that year , the group recorded and released their second album ,  आध्यात्मिक  Love .
The  एल्बम  became the  समूह  's second # 1 album on the Top Gospel charts .
The  एल्बम   contained  the singles `` Put Your Hands '' and `` My Body  ''  .
In 2002 , the group released  उनके  third album The  चुंबन  which  debuted  at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts  .
In 2007  ,  the group left GospoCentric Records and signed  a  record deal with Spirit Rising Music .
In late 2007 , Trin-i-tee 5:7 released their fifth album T57 , which  प्रदर्शित  the top ten gospel  सिंगल  `` Listen '' .
T57 charted #  2  on the Top Gospel Albums ,  #  5 on the Top Christian charts , and # 12 on the Top R & B charts .
The  संयुक्त   राज्य  federal earned income  कर   क्रेडिट  or earned income credit ( EITC or  eic   )  is a refundable tax credit for low- and medium-income individuals and couples , primarily for those who have qualifying children  .
When the credit  exceeds  the amount of taxes  owed  , it results in a tax refund to those  जो  claim  the  credit .
This  क्रेडिट  is provided to offset the burden of social security taxes and also to promote  an  incentive to work .
in  order for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as their qualifying child  (  ren ) , the  आयु  , relationship , and shared residency requirements must  be  met , as  खूब   as  some  अन्य  requirements .
U.S. tax forms 1040EZ , 1040A ,  or  1040 can be used to claim EIC without  qualifying  children .
To claim the credit with qualifying children , 1040A or 1040 must be used , as well as attaching Schedule EIC .
EIC  phases  in slowly , has  a  medium-length plateau , and then phases out more slowly than it  phased  in .
Since the credit phases  आउट   at  21 % ( for two children  और  for three or more qualilfying children ) or  16  %  (  for one qualifying child ) , it is always preferable to have one more dollar of actual salary or wages  (  although technically , since  the  EIC table moves by fifty dollar increments , it 's always preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ) .
For tax year 2011 , the maximum EIC for a single person or couple filing without qualifying children was $ 464 .
The maximum EIC with one qualifying child was $  3,094  , with two children was $ 5,112 , and  साथ  three or more  qualifying  children was $  5,751   .
ये  amounts are indexed annually for inflation .
The earned income tax credit has  महरूम  part of political debates in the United States regarding whether raising the minimum wage or increasing EIC will better address a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs .
The following is a list of halftime shows  आयोजित  at the National Football  लीग  's championship  खेल  , the Super Bowl .
While halftime shows are  a  tradition during  फ़ुटबॉल  games at all levels of competition  ,  the Super Bowl halftime show represents a fundamental link to  पॉप  culture , which helps broaden the television  दर्शक   और   देशभर  interest .
In most years since the mid-1980s , the halftime show of the Super Bowl  रै  featured popular recording artists and other well-known celebrities .
it  has measurably increased television viewers during and after the halftime show .
The performance is regarded one of the most-watched events in American television annually with over 100 million viewers  in  the United States alone .
Musical genres over the years have represented a broad range of music types , including pop ,  चट्टान  , classic rock , country ,  हिप  hop , rap  ,  blues , and soul .
In some years , short skits or drama scenes are acted out on a stage .
The performance group Up with People has  performed   at   the  most Super Bowl halftime shows , starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s .
According to Nielsen ratings , Super  कटोरी  XLVI halftime show headlined by Madonna in 2012  remains   the  most-watched halftime  दिखाएँ  in history , with 114 million  दर्शक  or about 3 million  अधिक   than   the  actual  खेल   .
Beyonce  's  2013 halftime show performance was the second most viewed show in history .
it  is listed on the Guinness World Records as  the  largest TV audience for a Super Bowl  half-time  performance .
International Men 's  दिन  ( IMD )  is   an  annual international event celebrated on 19th November .
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad and Tobago , the day and its events find support from a variety of  individuals  and groups in Australia , the Caribbean , North America ,  एशिया  , Europe and Africa .
बोलना  on behalf of UNESCO , Director of Women and Culture of Peace  ingeborg  Breines said of IMD  ,  `` This is an excellent idea and would give some gender balance . ''
वो  added  कि  UNESCO was looking forward to cooperating with the organizers .
The objectives  of  celebrating an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Men 's Day include focusing on men 's and boys  '   स्वास्थ्य  , improving gender relations , promoting gender equality , and highlighting positive male role models .
It is an occasion to highlight discrimination against men and boys and  to  celebrate their achievements and contributions , in particular for their  योगदान  to community , family ,  विवाह  , and child care  .
The broader and  परम  aim of the event is to promote basic humanitarian  मान  .
International Men 's Day  is  celebrated in over 60 countries , including Trinidad and Tobago ,  जमैका  , Australia  ,  India , China , United States , Romania , Singapore  ,  Malta ,  संयुक्त  Kingdom ,  दक्षिण  Africa , Tanzania , Zimbabwe , Botswana , Seychelles , Burundi , Hungary , Ireland , Isle of Man , Ghana , Canada , Denmark , Norway , Austria , Bosnia  और  Herzegovina ,  युक्त  , France , Italy , Pakistan , Cuba , Antigua  और  Barbuda , St. Kitts and Nevis , St.  लूसिया  , Grenada and Cayman Islands , on 19 November , and global support for  the  celebration is broad .
Valley Village  parkvalley
Village is a district in the San Fernando Valley region  of  Los Angeles , California .
The median age of its population , at 36 , is `` old for the city of Los Angeles . '' and its  औसत  household size of two people is low , compared to other parts of the city  .
Developmental psychology is the scientific study of changes that occur in  इंसान  beings over the course of their  जीवन  span .
Originally concerned with infants and children , the field has expanded to include adolescence , adult development , aging , and the entire life span .
This field examines change across  a  broad range of topics including motor skills and  अन्य   psycho-physiological  processes ; cognitive development involving areas such  as  problem solving , moral  समझना  , and  conceptual  understanding ; language  अधिग्रहण  ; social , personality , and emotional  विकास  ; and self-concept and identity formation .
Developmental psychology includes issues such as the extent to which  विकास  occurs through the gradual accumulation of knowledge versus stage-like development ,  or  the  extent  to  जिससे  children are born with innate mental structures versus learning through experience .
Many researchers are interested in the interaction between personal characteristics , the individual 's behavior , and environmental factors including social context  ,  and their impact on development ; others take a more narrowly-focused approach .
Developmental psychology informs several  लागू  fields , including : educational psychology , child psychopathology , and forensic developmental psychology .
developmental  psychology complements several other basic research fields in psychology including social  मनोविज्ञान  , cognitive psychology , ecological psychology , and comparative psychology .
Joseph Michael `` Joey  ''  Stivic is a fictional character who first appeared on  the  1970s American  sitcom  All in the Family  .
Joey Stivic was the son and  तभी  child of Mike Stivic ( played by Rob Reiner ) and  ग्लोरिया  Stivic ( played by Sally Struthers ) , and the grandson  of  Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) and Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ) .
the   अक्षर  first appeared as  a  newborn baby in a two-part episode of  सब   in  the Family which  aired  in December 1975 .
After many appearances on All in  the  Family until Reiner and Struthers  बाएँ  the series in 1978 (  by  that time , Joey had been  निभाई  most often by alternating twins Jason and Justin Draeger ) , the Joey Stivic character next appeared on the  सब  in the Family spin-off  श्रेणी  ( some call it  a  continuation of the  असली  ) Archie Bunker  's  Place in a guest appearance in the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving Reunion . ''
In this instance , the character was played by child actor Dick Billingsley and was appropriately pre-school age .
With Gloria now separated from Mike , she returned to Archie Bunker 's  प्लेस  with Joey in the February 1982  एपीसोड  `` Gloria Comes Home . ''
In this episode , Joey was played by Christopher Johnston .
Joey Stivic was  a  regular character on the All in the Family spin-off  श्रेणी  Gloria in 1982 and 1983 .
On this series , in which the now-divorced  ग्लोरिया  Bunker character  था  moved to Upstate New York in order to work as an assistant veterinarian ,  the  part of Joey Stivic was played by ten-year-old actor Christian Jacobs .
After Gloria  थी  canceled in 1983 , Joey Stivic disappeared from  प्रधान   समय  television for 11 years , until the character made one last appearance on 704  hauser  ,  a  short-lived 1994 series about a black family who had moved  into  the old Bunker home , years after  बंकर  had sold  it  .
In this appearance , the Joey Stivic character was played by Casey Siemaszko , an actor born in 1961  (  14 years before Joey Stivic 's fictional birth ) .
In 1976  the  Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch `` Joey Stivic doll ''  (  called `` Archie Bunker 's Grandson '' ) which was billed as the `` first anatomically correct male  गुड़िया  . ''
The doll inspired  mild  controversy at the time , and is a collectors  '  item today .
The 2011 Rose Bowl was the 97th edition of the annual  कटोरी  game played on January 1 , 2011 , as part of the  2010  college football season .
Played in Pasadena , California ,  the  TCU Horned Frogs of the Mountain West Conference defeated  the  Wisconsin Badgers  of  the Big Ten Conference  by  a  स्कोर  of  21  – 19 .
The Pasadena Tournament of Roses  संघ   थी   the  organizer of the game .
vizio  Inc.  थी  the corporate sponsor and the game was officially named `` The Rose Bowl  खेल  presented by Vizio '' .
This game marked the first time a team  इससे  a non-Automatic Qualifying Conference played in , and  जीती  , the  रोज़  Bowl in its 97 years .
The contest was broadcast on cable television station ESPN with a radio broadcast on ESPN Radio and XM Satellite Radio and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet .
Coverage began at 1:30 PM ( PST ) with kickoff  at  2:10 PM ( PST ) .
इस  marked the first time that the game was  नहीं  broadcast  nationally  `` over-the-air '' ( terrestrial television ) since the games prior to the 1952 Rose Bowl , which was the first nationally televised college football game .
The Rose Bowl Game , themed Building Dreams , Friendships , & Memories , was a contractual  sell-out  , with 64,500 tickets allocated to the participating teams  और  conferences .
टिकट  prices  लिये  all seats in the Rose Bowl are listed  at  $ 145 .
The remaining tickets went to the Tournament of Roses members , sponsors , City of Pasadena residents , and the general public .
The Rose Bowl stadium capacity is listed at approximately 91,000  .
The Declaration of Independence is  a  statement adopted  by  the Continental Congress on July 4 , 1776 , which announced that the thirteen  अमरीकी  colonies ,  तब  at war with Great Britain , regarded themselves as independent states , and no longer a part of the British Empire .
Instead they now formed a new nation—the United States of America .
John  एडम्स  was a leader in pushing for independence , which was  unanimously  approved on  जुलाई  2 .
A committee had already drafted the formal declaration , to be ready when  कॉंग्रेस  voted on independence .
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to  लिखें  the original draft of the document , which congress would edit to produce the  फाइनल  version .
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of  क्यों  Congress  था  voted on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain , more than a year after the  outbreak  of  the  American Revolutionary War  .
The  नेशनल  birthday  ,  the Independence Day is celebrated on July  4  , although Adams wanted July 2 .
After ratifying the text on July 4 ,  कॉंग्रेस  issued the Declaration of Independence in several forms .
It was initially published as the printed Dunlap broadside that was widely distributed and read to the  पब्लिक   .
The  सबसे  famous version of the Declaration  ,  a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the  घोषणा  of Independence , is displayed at  the  National Archives in Washington , D.C .
हालांकि  the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4 , the date of its signing was August 2 .
The original July 4 United States Declaration of Independence manuscript was lost  जबकि  all other copies have been derived from this original document  .
The sources and interpretation of  the  Declaration have been the subject of much  scholarly  inquiry .
the  Declaration justified the independence of  the  United States  by  listing colonial grievances against  किंग  George III  ,  and by asserting certain natural and legal rights , including a right  of  revolution .
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence , the text of the Declaration was initially ignored after the American Revolution .
Since then , it has  आइये   to  be considered  a  major statement on human  अधिकारों  , particularly its second sentence:
We hold  ये  truths to be self-evident , that all  मेन  are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable  अधिकारों   ,  that among  ये  are Life , Liberty and  the  pursuit  of  Happiness .
This has been called `` one of the best-known  वाक्य  in the English language '' , containing `` the most potent and consequential words in American history  .  ''
The passage came to represent  a   moral  standard to which the United States should strive .
This view  थी  notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln , who considered the  घोषणा  to be the foundation of  उसके  political philosophy  ,  and argued  कि  the Declaration  is   a  statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be  interpreted  .
It has inspired work for  the  rights of marginalized people throughout the world .
Chitty Chitty Bang Bang is a  1968  British musical film loosely based on Ian Fleming  's   अनोखा   .
The film 's script is by Roald  dahl  and Ken Hughes  और  its songs by the Sherman Brothers .
It stars Dick Van Dyke as Caractacus Potts and Sally Ann Howes as Truly  scrumptious  .
The film was directed by Ken Hughes and produced by Albert R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the James Bond  श्रेणी  of  films  , also based on Fleming 's novels ) .
John Stears supervised the special effects .
Irwin Kostal supervised and conducted the music , while the musical numbers were staged  by  Marc Breaux and Dee Dee Wood .
a  region is arid when it  is  characterized by a severe lack of  उपलब्धियाँ  water ,  to  the extent of hindering or preventing the growth and  विकास  of plant and animal  जीवन  .
Environments subject to arid climates tend  to  lack vegetation and are called xeric or desertic .
सबसे  `` arid '' climates surround the equator ; these places include most  of  Africa and parts of South America and  सेंट्रल   अमेरिका  .
Cancer (  ♋  ) is  an   astrological  sign , which is associated with the constellation Cancer .
it  spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac , between 90  और  125.25 degree of celestial longitude , which the Sun transits this  क्षेत्रफल  on average between June  22  to July 22 each year .
And  अंतर्गत  the sidereal zodiac , it is currently from July 21 to August 9 .
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential election ,  आयोजित   on  Tuesday  ,  November 8 , 1960 .
The Republican Party nominated incumbent Vice-President Richard Nixon , while the Democratic Party nominated John F. Kennedy , Senator from Massachusetts .
The incumbent President , Republican Dwight  D.  Eisenhower , was  नहीं  eligible for re-election after serving the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment .
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes , or 0.17 % of  the  popular vote , giving him a victory of 303 to 219  in   the  Electoral College , the closest since 1916 .
This was the first election in which all fifty of the current United States participated .
A number of  कारकों  explain why the election was so close .
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which hurt the incumbent  रिपब्लिकन  ,  और  he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans .
Furthermore , the new votes that Kennedy gained among Catholics almost neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants .
Kennedy  's  campaigning skills decisively outmatched  निक्सन  's .
In the end ,  निक्सन   's  emphasis on his experience carried little weight , and he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states instead of  concentrating  on the swing states .
Kennedy used his large , well-funded campaign organization to win the nomination , secure endorsements , and , with the aid of the last of  the  big-city  bosses  , to get out  the  vote in the big cities .
He relied on running mate Lyndon B.  जॉनसन  to  थाम  the South  और  used  टेलीविज़न  effectively .
This election is notable  as  being the first  समय  in U.S. history that two sitting  u.s  .  सीनेटरों  (  कैनेडी  and Johnson ) were elected as president and vice-president , a phenomenon that has been repeated once  ,  by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in  दोनो  cases , the president was the younger , more junior senator ) .
Sherwood is a city in Washington County  ,  Oregon , United States .
Located in  the  southeast corner of the county , it is a residential community in the Tualatin Valley southwest of Portland .
The population was 11,791 at the 2000 census  .
According to the 2010 census ,  the  population was 18,205 residents .
Indirectly named for  the  Sherwood Forest in England ,  it  was first incorporated in 1893 as a town .
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the U.S. Congress that was signed into law by President George W. Bush on October 26 , 2001 .
The title of the act  is   a  ten letter acronym ( USA PATRIOT ) that  स्टैंड  for Uniting ( and ) Strengthening America (  by  )  providing  Appropriate  टूल्स  Required ( to  )   इंटरफेस   (  and  )  Obstruct Terrorism Act of  2001  .
The act ,  as  a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th , significantly  घटाया  restrictions in law enforcement  एजेंसियों  ' gathering of intelligence within the United States ; expanded the Secretary of the Treasury’s authority to regulate financial transactions , particularly those involving foreign  individuals  and entities ; and broadened the discretion of law enforcement and immigration authorities in detaining and deporting immigrants suspected of terrorism-related acts .
The act also expanded the definition of terrorism to include domestic terrorism , thus enlarging the number of activities to which the USA PATRIOT Act’s expanded law enforcement powers can be applied .
On  may  26  ,  2011 , President Barack Obama used an  autopen  to sign the PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act of 2011 , a four-year extension of  तीन  key  प्रावधानों  in the USA PATRIOT Act while he was  in  France : roving  wiretaps  ,  खोज  of business records ( the `` library records provision  ``  ) , and conducting surveillance of `` lone wolves '' — individuals  suspected  of terrorist-related activities not linked to terrorist groups .
Republican leaders questioned if the use of  the  Autopen met the constitutional  आवश्यकताएँ  for  हस्ताक्षर  a bill into  विधि  .
a  house  in  Queen Anne style at 223  एवेन्यू  A .
snohomish  is a city in  snohomish  County , Washington , United States .
The population was 9,098 at  the   2010  census .
The mayor of Snohomish is Karen Guzak , and the City Manager  is  Larry Bauman .
Snohomish prides itself for its historical downtown , and was once known for its many antique shops when  it  was known as the `` Antique Capital of the Northwest . ''
The historic business and residential center of the town constitutes  the  Snohomish  ऐतिहासिक  District , which is listed  on  the National Register of Historic Places .
Many houses bear plaques with the year the house was  निर्मित  and the name of the family or individual who originally occupied it .
Once every year  ,  the city gives  टुर  of the historic houses ; one of them , the  blackman  House , is a year-round  संग्रहालय  .
a  general aviation airfield ,  घनघोर  Airfield , is less than one mile southwest of Downtown Snohomish  .
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an American rock band that was formed  in  Charlottesville  ,  Virginia , United States , in 1991 .
The founding members were singer-songwriter and  guitarist  Dave Matthews ,  bassist  Stefan Lessard  ,  drummer /backing vocalist Carter Beauford  और  saxophonist LeRoi Moore .
Boyd Tinsley was added to the  बैंड  as a violinist  जल्द   बाद   the  band was formed .
Moore died suddenly in August 2008 due to complications from injuries sustained in an ATV accident .
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla Fleck and the Flecktones has since filled Moore 's spot as  the  band 's saxophonist .
Rashawn Ross and Tim Reynolds have also become  full-time  touring members of the band .
The band 's 2009 album Big Whiskey  और  the GrooGrux King ( the  पहला   एल्बम  since Moore 's death ) debuted at  क्रमांक  one  on  the Billboard 200 , earning the band their fifth  लगातार  number-one debut— making them the second band behind Metallica to do so .
Their most recent album , Away from the World , was released in  2012  , and also debuted at number one on the Billboard chart .
as  of 2010  ,  the Dave Matthews Band has sold over 30 million records worldwide .
The band is known for their annual summer-long tours of the United States and Europe  ,  featuring lengthy improvisational  renditions  of their songs , accompanied by an  विस्तृत  video and lighting show .
This portion  of  the tour has become  a  stamp of DMB and has grown with the band since Fenton Williams began working with them  in   the  early 1990s .
After twenty consecutive years of  touring  the band announced  कि  it would take the summer of 2011 off .
Dave Matthews Band has won one GRAMMY  पुरस्कार  , and was awarded the NAACP Chairman 's Award .
According to  जूलियन  Bond , `` they sell  आउट  the  largest  arenas  on   धरती  , but frequently give their music away . ''
Transcendental Wild Oats : A Chapter from an Unwritten Romance is a prose satire written by Louisa May Alcott , about her family 's involvement with the Transcendentalist community Fruitlands in the early 1840s .
the  work was first  प्रकाशित  in a New York newspaper in 1873 , and reprinted in 1874 , 1876 , and 1915 and  बाद   .
In her account , Alcott provides the real people involved with thin pseudonymous disguises .
Her father Amos Bronson Alcott is `` Abel Lamb , '' while his partner  और  community co-founder Charles Lane is `` Timon Lion ; '' Abigail May Alcott , Louisa  's  mother and  bronson  's wife  ,  is `` Sister  आशा  . ''
Alcott depicts her father as  वर्चस्व  by his more forceful partner , and both men as  लापरवाह  and impractical dreamers .
The men of  the  community spend their time in pointless debates while  सिस्टर  Hope works from dawn to  संध्या  to maintain their existence .
A crisis arises at harvest time , when the grain crop is threatened by  an  approaching storm .
In Alcott  's  words , `` About the time the  अनाज  was ready to  हाउस  , some call of the Oversoul wafted all the men away . ''
Sister Hope organizes the only  उपलब्धियाँ  help ,  तीन  little  लड़कियों  and a boy , and manages to save the  क्रॉप  .
The  छोटी  community collapses as soon as the weather  turns  cold , when it becomes clear that their provisions are too  meager  to last  the  coming winter .
Timon Lion and his son abscond to join the Shakers — though Timon is unhappy to learn that life among  उन्हें  is  ``   सब   कार्य  and no play . ''
Abel is crushed by  the  failure  of  the  एंटरप्राइज़  ; after days of despair  he   begins  to eat again only when he realizes that his family needs him .
Sister Hope finds a way for them to subsist  और  persevere .
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in this piece is paralleled  in  her novel , published  in  the same  साल  as `` Transcendental Wild Oats  .  ''
`` Transcendental Wild Oats '' has been reprinted in several modern editions .
Mount of  the  Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot mountain in the Sawatch Range , part of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado .
It is located in the Holy Cross Wilderness near the ghost town of Holy Cross City and in Eagle  काउंटी   .
It was named for the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the northeast face  .
Under USDA  वन  Service administration ,  the  mountain was proclaimed ``  पावन   क्रॉस  National Monument '' by Herbert Hoover on May 11 , 1929 .
The monument was transferred to the National Park Service in 1933 .
In 1950 , it was returned to  the  Forest Service and lost its National Monument status—the number of visitors to  the  mountain and the  आसपास  `` Pilgrim 's Hut '' had waned , and the  व्यय  of full-time staff could not be justified .
This mountain has been the subject of  चित्रकार  , photographers and even a poem  by  Henry Wadsworth Longfellow , ( The Cross of  हिम  ) .
The first publicly available photograph was published in National Geographic  पत्रिका  .
थामस  Moran depicted the  पहाड़  in an oil  पेंटिंग  , which now is part of the collection of  the  Museum of the American  वेस्ट  , part of the Autry National Center in Los Angeles , California .
It is still much  photographed  but it is not  as  well known  आज  as  it  was in the past  .
आसपास  features include Bowl of Tears Lake , directly under the east  फेस  of the peak , Tuhare Lakes , in a cirque that lies south of a significant subpeak , and several other lakes .
Notable locations within include the Dotsero volcano ( near  अंतरराज्यीय  70 ) , Vail and Aspen .
US 24 runs  निकट  the peak through Gilman  .
Photochrom  छपाई  of Mount of  the  Holy Cross  c.  1900 .
This image is a reversed view of  the  mountain compared to how it actually  appears   .
the  first  अंकित  ascent  of  Holy Cross was  in  1873 , by F. V. Hayden and photographer W. H. Jackson during one  of  Hayden 's geographical surveys .
However , the  शिखर  may well have been ascended previously by miners or American Indians .
The first winter ascent of the peak was made in 1943 by Russel Keene and Howard Freedman of the 10th Mountain  प्रभाग  , then  stationed  at Camp Hale .
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least  चार  different routes , with the easiest and most common route being the North Ridge  ,  which involves of vertical gain over and is rated YDS Class 2 for moderate  scrambling  .
The Cross Couloir route forms the vertical  portion  of the famous cross  विशेषता  , and provides  an  advanced snow climb or extreme ski descent  .
Mount of the Holy  क्रॉस  has a history of endangering the lives of many hikers .
Primarily , the hikers who require rescue are unfamiliar with  the  risks of entering wilderness areas and do not bring adequate equipment and supplies to respond to emergency conditions .
Although the  समिट  on Mount of the Holy Cross is frequently  पहुँचे  on a long day  hike  , unprepared hikers are frequently stranded or lost due to changing environmental conditions and confusion regarding the surrounding landscape , especially on the descent of  उत्तर  Ridge .
Thorough research and reasonable planning should prevent most tragedies .
Mount of the Holy cross  is  accessible from Tigiwon Road ,  दक्षिण  of Minturn , Colorado .
The Half Moon Pass Trail is the standard route to the summit of Mount of  the  Holy Cross via  the  North Ridge .
Following the Fall Creek Trail to an ascent of Notch Mountain Trail provides the best view of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain Ridge .
The GSM logo is  प्रयुक्त  to  पहचानो  compatible  handsets   और  equipment
जीएसएम  ( Global System for Mobile Communications , originally ' ) , is a standard  नियत  developed by the European Telecommunications Standards  संस्थान  ( ETSI  )  to describe protocols for second  पीढी  (  2g  ) digital cellular networks  प्रयुक्त  by mobile  फोन  .
It became the de facto global standard for mobile communications with over 80 % market share .
The  जीएसएम  standard was developed as a replacement for first generation ( 1G ) analog cellular networks , and originally described a digital , circuit switched network optimized for full duplex voice telephony  .
This was expanded over time to include data communications ,  पहला   by  circuit switched transport , then packet data transport via GPRS ( General Packet Radio Services ) and EDGE (  उन्नत  Data rates for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ) .
further  improvements were  बना  when the 3GPP developed third generation ( 3G ) UMTS standards followed by fourth generation  (  4G ) LTE Advanced standards .
`` GSM '' is a trademark owned  by  the GSM Association .
President Franklin D. Roosevelt  लक्षण  the Lend-Lease bill to give  सहायता  to Britain and China ( 1941 )
The Lend Lease act  थी  an act where the United States had supported its allies .
Lend-Lease (  )  was the law that started a program  अंतर्गत   जिससे  the United States of America  supplied  the United Kingdom , the USSR , Republic of China , Free  फ़्रांस  , and other  अलाइड  nations  साथ  materiel between 1941 and 1945 .
It was signed into law on March 11  ,  1941 , a year  और   a  half  बाद  the outbreak of World War II in Europe in September 1939 .
This was nine months before the U.S. entered the war  in  December  1941   .
Formally titled An Act to Further Promote the Defense of  the  United States , the Act effectively ended the United States ' pretense of neutrality .
A total of $ 50 .1 billion ( equivalent to  $  today ) worth  of  supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 billion to Britain , $ 11.3 billion  to  the Soviet Union , $ 3.2 billion to France , $ 1.6 billion to China , and smaller sums to other Allies .
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised  सेवाएं  such as rent on air bases that went to the U.S. , and totaled $ 7.8 billion ; of this ,  $  6.8 billion came from the British and the Commonwealth .
The terms of the agreement provided that the materiel was to be  प्रयुक्त  until time for  उनके  return or  विनाश  .
Supplies after the  termination  date were sold to Britain at a  विशाल  discount for £1 .075 billion using  long-term  loans from the United States .
Canada operated a similar program that sent $ 4.7 billion in  आपूर्तियाँ  to the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union .
The United States did not charge  लिये  aid supplied  अंतर्गत  this legislation  .
This program was a decisive step away from  non-interventionist  policy  ,   जिससे  had dominated United States foreign relations since the end  of  World War I , towards international involvement .
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ) , also called sunroot ,  sunchoke  , earth  ठहराना  or  topinambour  , is  a  species  of  sunflower native to eastern North America  ,  and found from eastern Canada and Maine west to North Dakota ,  और  south to northern Florida and Texas .
It is also cultivated  widely  across the  शीतोष्ण  zone for its tuber , which is used as a root vegetable  .
Castillo San Felipe del Morro also known  as  Fort San Felipe del  morro  or Morro  किला  , is  a  16th-century citadel located in San Juan  ,  Puerto Rico .
Stonehenge is a  प्रागैतिहासिक  monument in Wiltshire , England , about west of Amesbury  और  north of Salisbury .
One  of  the most famous sites in the world , Stonehenge  is   the  remains of a ring of standing stones set within earthworks .
it  is in the middle of the most dense complex of Neolithic and Bronze  आयु  monuments in England ,  सहित  several hundred burial mounds .
Archaeologists believe it was  निर्मित  anywhere from 3000 BC to 2000 BC .
Radiocarbon dating  in  2008 suggested that the first  पत्थरों  were raised between 2400 and 2200 BC , whilst another theory suggests that bluestones may have been raised at the site as  जल्दी  as 3000  bc  .
The surrounding circular earth bank and ditch , which constitute the  earliest  phase of the monument , have been dated to about  3100  BC .
The site and its surroundings were added  to  the UNESCO 's  सूची   of   संसार  Heritage  साइट  in 1986 in a  co-listing  with Avebury Henge .
It is a national legally protected Scheduled Ancient Monument .
Stonehenge is owned by the Crown and managed by English Heritage , while the surrounding land is owned by the National Trust .
Archaeological evidence found by the Stonehenge Riverside  प्रोजेक्ट  in 2008 indicates that Stonehenge could have been a burial ground from its earliest beginnings .
The dating of cremated remains found on the  साईट  indicate that  जमा   contain  human bone from as early as 3000 BC , when the ditch and bank were first dug .
Such deposits continued at Stonehenge for at least another 500 years .
The  साईट  is a place of religious significance and pilgrimage  in  Neo-Druidry .
the  NCAA Women 's Division I Championship is an  सालाना  college basketball  टूर्नामेंट  for women .
Held each April , the Women 's Championship was inaugurated in the 1981–82 season .
the  NCAA tournament was preceded by the AIAW Women 's Basketball Tournament , which was held annually from 1972 to 1982 .
Basketball was one of twelve women 's sports added to the NCAA  चैंपियनशिप  program for the 1981-82  स्कूल  year ,  as  the NCAA engaged in battle with the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women for sole governance of  महिलाओं  's  कॉलेजिएट   खेल  .
The AIAW continued to conduct its established championship program in the  वही  twelve ( and  अन्य  ) sports ; however ,  बाद  a year of dual  महिलाओं  's championships , the NCAA prevailed , while the AIAW disbanded .
Attendance and interest in the  महिलाओं  's Division I  चैंपियनशिप  have grown over the years , especially since 2003 , when the final championship game was moved to the Tuesday following the Monday men 's championship game  .
The women 's championship game is now the final overall game of the college basketball season .
पहले  that  ,  the Women 's Final Four was usually played on the Friday before the Men 's Final Four or the hours  पहले  the men played on the final Saturday of  the  tournament .
The final was usually played  the  Sunday afternoon following the Men 's Final Four .
The tournament bracket is made up of champions from each  प्रभाग  I conference , which receive  स्वचालित  bids .
The remaining slots are  at-large  bids , with teams chosen by an NCAA  चयन  committee .
The selection process and tournament seedings are based on several factors , including team  rankings  , win-loss records and Ratings Percentage  अनुक्रमणिका  ( RPI ) data .
नापसंद  the men 's tournament , there are only 32 at-large bids (  as  of the next tournament in 2014 ) , and no play-in game .
the   महिलाओं   's  tournament , like the men 's , is staged in a single elimination format , and is part of  the   मीडिया  and  पब्लिक  frenzy known colloquially as March Madness or The Big Dance .
All 63 games have been broadcast on television since 2003 on ESPN  और  ESPN2 .
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's  टूर्नामेंट  coverage on CBS , local teams are shown on  प्रत्येक  channel when available , with `` whip-around '' coverage designed  to   शोकेस  the most competitive contests in the rest of the country .
The Rosetta Stone in the British Museum
The Rosetta Stone is an  प्राचीन  Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree  जारी  at Memphis in  196  BC on behalf  of  King Ptolemy V .
The decree appears in three scripts : the upper text  is   प्राचीन  Egyptian hieroglyphs  ,  the middle portion Demotic  स्क्रिप्ट  , and the lowest Ancient Greek .
Because it presents essentially the same text in all three scripts ( with some minor differences between them ) , it provided the  कुंजी  to the modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs .
Originally displayed within a temple , the stone was probably moved during the early Christian or  मध्यकालीन  period and  आखिरकार  used as building material in the construction of  फोर्ट   जुलिएन  near the town of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the Nile Delta .
It was  rediscovered  there in 1799  by  a soldier , Pierre-François Bouchard , of the French expedition to Egypt .
As the  पहला  Ancient Egyptian bilingual text recovered in modern times ,  the  Rosetta  स्टोन  aroused widespread public  ब्याज  with its potential to decipher this hitherto untranslated ancient language .
Lithographic  नक़ल  and plaster casts began  circulating  among European museums and scholars .
Meanwhile , British troops  पराजित  the French  in  Egypt in  1801  , and  the  original stone came into British  कब्ज़ा  under the Capitulation of Alexandria .
Transported to London ,  it  has been on public display at the British Museum since 1802 .
It  is  the most-visited object in the British Museum .
Ever since its rediscovery , the stone has been the focus of nationalist rivalries , including its transfer from French to British possession during the Napoleonic Wars  ,  a long-running dispute over the relative value of Young 's and Champollion 's contributions to  the  decipherment , and since 2003 , demands for the  स्टोन   's  return to Egypt .
Study of the decree was already under way as the first full  अनुवाद  of the Greek text appeared in 1803 .
It was 20 years , however , before the transliteration  of   the  Egyptian scripts was announced by Jean-François Champollion in Paris in 1822 ; it took longer still before scholars were able to read Ancient Egyptian inscriptions and literature confidently .
Major advances  in  the decoding were : recognition that the stone offered three versions of the same text ( 1799 ) ; that the demotic text  प्रयुक्त  phonetic characters to spell foreign  names  ( 1802 ) ; that the hieroglyphic text did so as well , and  था  pervasive  similarities  to the demotic ( Thomas Young , 1814 ) ; and that , in  जोड   to  being used for foreign names  ,  phonetic characters were also used to spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion , 1822–1824 ) .
Two other fragmentary copies of the same decree were discovered later , and several  समान  Egyptian bilingual or trilingual  inscriptions  are now known  ,  including two slightly earlier  ptolemaic  decrees ( the Decree of Canopus in 238 BC , and the Memphis decree  of  Ptolemy IV , ca .  218  BC ) .
the  Rosetta Stone is therefore no longer  अद्वितीय  , but it was the essential key to modern understanding of Ancient Egyptian  साहित्य   और  civilization .
the  term Rosetta Stone is now used in other  contexts  as the name for the essential clue  to  a new field of knowledge .
Poison dart frog (  भी  dart-poison frog ,  ज़हर  frog or formerly poison arrow frog ) is the common name of a  समूह  of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae which are  देशी  to Central and South America .
These species are diurnal and often have brightly colored bodies .
Although all wild  dendrobatids  are at least somewhat toxic , levels of toxicity vary considerably from one species to the next  और  from one population to another .
Many  प्रजाति  are threatened .
These amphibians are often called `` dart frogs  ''  due to the Amerindians ' indigenous use of  उनके  to poison the tips of blowdarts .
However , of over 175 species , only four have been documented as being used for this purpose  (  curare plants are more commonly used ) , all of which come from the Phyllobates genus , which is characterized by the relatively  विशाल  size and high  स्तर  of toxicity of its members .
Cajeta is a Mexican confection of thickened syrup usually made of sweetened  caramelised  milk .
According to chef Rick Bayless , the name for cajeta came from the Spanish phrase al  punto  de cajeta , which means `` a liquid thickened to the point at which a spoon drawn  through  the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in  जिससे  it  is  being cooked '' .
Another hypothesis is that it takes its name  इससे  the small wooden boxes in which it was traditionally packed .
Mexican cajeta is considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state of Guanajuato , although  it  is also produced with the traditional method in several towns of the state of Jalisco ,  ऐसे  as Mazamitla , Sayula , and  atotonilco  el Alto .
Cajeta is made by simmering goat 's  मिल्क  , or occasionally a sweetened liquid ,  stirring   अक्सर  , until it becomes very viscous due to evaporation of water , and caramelized .
While goat milk is the most usual base , other liquids or juices may be used .
In Celaya , and eventually the rest of Mexico , the confection of half goat 's milk and half cow 's milk became known by the name cajeta , but  elsewhere  , the milk candy became known as leche quemada , dulce  de  leche  ,  etc .
It has cousins in the many  भारतीय  milk-based sweets like  प्रभा  and the milk fudge burfi , and in the opera fudge of the U.S. Cajeta is eaten on its own as a sweet , as a spread or  भरना  for breads and  pastries  , such as churros ,  और  as a topping  लिये  ice cream .
Certain liquors are added to special recipes called cajeta envinada .
In addition , cajeta envinada especial is enriched with raisins  ,  almonds , pecans or  nuts   .
Often it is  प्रयुक्त  as a topping for crêpes  ,  as a sweet sauce boiled and softened down with milk to soak the crepes  ,  resulting in a  स्वादिष्ट  dessert .
In Mexico many brands make cajeta but the most common brand is Coronado .
It is also very common to place cajeta between obleas to make a  परंपरागत  Mexican dessert  .
Prince William , Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ) , is the elder son of Charles ,  प्रिंस  of Wales , and Diana , Princess of Wales , and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and  प्रिंस  Philip , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is second in the line  of  succession , behind  उसके  father , to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms  :  the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand ,  जमैका  , Barbados , The Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint  लूसिया  , Saint  विंसेंट  and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua  और  Barbuda , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was educated at four schools in  the  United Kingdom and obtained a degree from  the   विश्वविद्यालयों  of St Andrews .
he  spent parts of a gap year  in  Chile , Belize , Tanzania , and Kenya  जहाँ  he has lived and holidayed several times .
Prince William has also taken Kiswahili studies at universities in Kenya and  तंजानिया  .
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving with  उसके  brother Prince Harry —and , two  सालो  later , earned his wings by completing pilot training  at  Royal Air Force College Cranwell .
In 2009 , he transferred to the Royal  एयर  Force , was promoted to Flight Lieutenant and underwent helicopter flying  प्रशिक्षण  in order  to  become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force  .
In 2010 , he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training and  गई   on  to RAF Valley on No . 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea  किंग  search and rescue helicopter  .
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend , Catherine Middleton , on 29  अप्रैल  2011 at Westminster Abbey .
Hours prior to his wedding , Prince William was created  ड्यूक   of  Cambridge , Earl of Strathearn , and Baron Carrickfergus .
Mali is a multilingual country .
The languages spoken there reflect ancient settlement patterns , migrations , and its long history .
Ethnologue counts 50 languages .
Of these , French is the official language and Bambara is the most widely spoken .
altogether  13 of the indigenous languages of Mali have the legal  औकात  of national  भाषा  .
Sign in French , at  a  monument in Bamako  .
{ { Infobox  अवकाश
चाइनीज  New Year
9 – 12 February  (  Vietnam )
Rogers Building ,  the  headquarters  of  Rogers Communications
Rogers Communications  inc.  is a diversified public Canadian communications and  मीडिया  company .
It is particularly in the field of wireless  संचार   ,  cable television  ,   टेलीफोन  , and Internet connectivity  साथ  significant additional  दूरसंचार  and mass media assets .
The company is headquartered in the Rogers Building in Toronto , Ontario .
The company claims the  विरासत  of the Rogers Vacuum Tube Company , founded  in  1925 by Edward Rogers  ,  which started the CFRB radio station in Toronto , which was later acquired by outside interests .
The present  एंटरप्राइज़  dates to 1960 ,  जब  Rogers ' son ,  टेड  Rogers , founded Rogers Radio Broadcasting Ltd .
That company acquired CHFI that year , as well as Aldred-Rogers  प्रसारण  ,  a  partnership with Joel Aldred which helped launch CFTO in 1961 .
Rogers later bought out Aldred and started the current  केबल   और  wireless operations , known as  रोजर्स  Cablesystems Ltd .
The  मुख्य  competitor to the company is Bell Canada , which has a similarly extensive portfolio of  रेडियो  and television media assets , as well as wireless , television  वितरण  , and telephone services , particularly in Eastern and Central Canada ;  the  two companies are often seen as having a duopoly on communications services in their regions  .
However , the company  भी  competes nationally with Telus for wireless services , and primarily indirectly with Shaw Communications for television service  .
The company also competes with a number of other media companies in the broadcasting industry .
the  Internet is a global system  of  interconnected computer networks that use the standard Internet protocol suite (  tcp/ip  ) to serve billions of users worldwide .
It is a network of networks that consists  of  millions of private , public , academic , business , and government networks , of local to global scope , that are linked by a broad array of electronic  ,  wireless and optical networking technologies .
The Internet carries an extensive range of information resources and  सेवाएं  , such as the inter-linked hypertext  दस्तावेज़  of the World Wide Web ( WWW  )  and the infrastructure to support email .
Most traditional  संचार  media including telephone , music , film , and television are being  reshaped  or redefined by the Internet , giving birth to new services such as voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) and  अंतरजाल  Protocol television ( IPTV ) .
Newspaper , book and other print publishing are  adapting  to Web site technology , or are reshaped into blogging and web feeds .
The Internet has  सक्रिय  and accelerated new  फ़ॉर्म  of human interactions through instant messaging , Internet forums , and social networking .
Online shopping has boomed both for major retail  आउटलेट  and small  शिल्पकार  and traders .
Business-to-business and financial  सेवाएं  on  the  Internet affect supply chains across entire industries .
The origins of the Internet reach back to research commissioned by the United States government in the 1960s to build robust , fault-tolerant communication via computer networks .
The funding of a new U.S. backbone by the National Science Foundation  in  the 1980s , as well  as  private  funding  for other commercial backbones , led to worldwide participation in the development of new networking technologies , and the merger of many networks .
The commercialization  of   कया  was by  the  1990s an international network resulted in its popularization and incorporation into virtually every aspect of modern human  जीवन  .
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world 's human population —have used the services of  the  Internet ; approximately  100  times more people than were using  it  in 1995 , when it was mostly  प्रयुक्त  by tech-savvy middle and upper class people in the United States  और  several  अन्य  countries .
the  Internet has no centralized governance in either technological implementation or policies for access and usage ; each constituent network sets its own policies .
Only the overreaching definitions of the two principal name spaces in the Internet , the Internet Protocol address space and the Domain Name System , are directed by a maintainer organization , the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ) .
the  technical underpinning and  मानकीकरण  of the  कोर   प्रोटोकॉल  ( IPv4 and IPv6 ) is an activity of the Internet Engineering Task Force ( IETF  )  , a non-profit organization  of  loosely affiliated  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  participants that anyone  may  associate with by contributing technical expertise .
The 2006 Winter Olympics , officially known as the XX Olympic Winter Games , was a winter multi-sport event which was celebrated in Turin , Italy from February  10  , 2006 ,  through  February 26 , 2006 .
This marked the second time  इटली  hosted the Olympic Winter Games , the first  होने  the  सात  Olympic Winter Games in Cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956 .
Italy  भी  hosted  the  Games of the XVII Olympiad in Rome in 1960 .
Turin was selected as the host city  लिये  the 2006 games in 1999 .
The official logo displayed the name `` Torino '' , the Italian name of the city ; the city is known as `` Turin '' in both English and the local traditional language  ,  Piedmontese  .
The Olympic mascots of Torino 2006 were Neve ( `` snow '' in Italian ) , a female snowball , and Gliz ,  a  male ice cube .
The official motto  of   the  XX Olympic Winter Games was ``  जुनून  lives here '' .
`` Help  !  '' is a  सोंग  by the Beatles that served as  the  title song for both  the  1965 film and its soundtrack album  .
It was also released as a single , and was number  एक   लिये  three weeks  in  both the United States and the United Kingdom .
``  सहायता  ! '' was written primarily by John Lennon , but  credited  to Lennon–McCartney .
During an interview with Playboy in 1984 , Paul McCartney stated that the title was ``  आउट  of desperation '' .
Poster for the 2005 exhibition
Siegfried Bing ( 26 February 1838 –  6  September 1905 ) , who usually gave his name as S. Bing , and was thus often referenced erroneously  as  `` Samuel Bing '' ( Samuel Otto Bing , 1850–1905 , was  उसके  brother ) was a German art dealer who lived in Paris as an  वयस्क  , and who helped introduce  जापानी  art and artworks to the West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during  the  late  उन्नीसवीं  century .
Comparison of male and female  जीवन  expectancy at  जनम  for countries and territories as  पारिभाषित   in   the  2011 CIA Factbook , with selected  बुलबुले  labelled .
The  बिंदीदार  line corresponds  to  equal  मादा  and male life expectancy .
The apparent 3D volumes of the bubbles are linearly proportional to their population .
This is a list of countries by life expectancy at birth  .
Kennewick is  a  city in Benton County  in  the southeastern part of the U.S. state of Washington , near the Hanford nuclear site .
It is the most  populous  of the three cities collectively referred to as the Tri-Cities (  the  others being Pasco and Richland ) .
Kennewick is located  साथ  the southwest bank of the Columbia River , opposite Pasco and just south  of  the confluence of the Columbia and Yakima rivers .
The population was 73,917 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
April 1 , 2012 estimates from the Washington State Office of  वित्तीय  Management put the city 's population at 75,160  .
The nearest commercial airport is the Tri-Cities Airport in Pasco , a regional commercial and private airport .
Forbes magazine named Kennewick the  #  2 area in the United States for job growth  ,  while nearby Yakima was named # 1 .
The article cites the  क्रमांक  of scientists employed by the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory and  क्षेत्रफल   farmland  for this outlook .
The prothrombin time ( PT )  और   इसके  derived measures of prothrombin  अनुपात  ( PR ) and international normalized ratio ( INR ) are measures of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation .
This test is also called `` ProTime INR '' and `` PT/INR  ''  .
They are used to determine the clotting tendency of blood , in the measure of warfarin dosage  ,  liver damage , and vitamin K status .
PT measures factors I ( fibrinogen ) , II ( prothrombin  )  ,  v  , VII , and  x  .
It is used in conjunction  साथ   the  activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT  )   जिससे  measures the intrinsic  pathway  .
`` I 'm in the Mood for Love ''  is  a popular song .
The music was  लिखा  by  jimmy  McHugh , the lyrics  by  Dorothy  फ़ील्ड  .
The  सोंग  was published in 1935 .
It was introduced by Frances Langford in the movie Every Night at Eight released that year .
The song was featured in the 1936 Our Gang (  छोटी  Rascals ) short , The  पिंच  Singer , sung by Carl `` Alfalfa '' Switzer , and in the 1936 film Palm Springs  .
It is often known to be Switzer 's signature song .
James Moody 's saxophone solo on a 1952 recording of this song inspired the song `` Moody 's Mood  लिये  Love `` .
Hip hop artist Prince Paul sampled the song as the basis for the track `` Mood for Love '' on his album A Prince Among Thieves (  1999   )  , with Don Newkirk singing its original lyrics .
The song 's  शीर्षक  inspired the English title of Wong Kar Wai  's  movie In the  मनोदशा  for Love .
Cross-cultural psychology  is  the scientific study of  इंसान  behavior and mental processes , including both their variability and invariance , under diverse cultural conditions .
Through expanding  शोध  methodologies to recognize cultural variance in  बर्ताव  , language , and  अर्थ   it  seeks  to  extend and develop psychology .
Since psychology as an academic discipline was developed largely in North  अमेरिका  , some  psychologists  became concerned that  constructs  accepted as  सार्वभौमिक  were not as invariant as previously assumed , especially since many attempts to  replicate  notable experiments in  अन्य  cultures had varying success .
Since there are  सवाल  as  to  whether theories dealing with  सेंट्रल  themes , such as affect , cognition  ,  conceptions of the self , and issues such as psychopathology , anxiety , and depression , may lack  बाह्य   वैध  when ``  exported  '' to other cultural contexts , cross-cultural  मनोविज्ञान  re-examines them using methodologies designed to factor in cultural differences so as to account for cultural variance .
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural psychological research and claim that serious shortcomings in the theoretical and methodological bases used impede rather than help the scientific search for universal principles in psychology , cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the  पढ़ाई  of how differences ( variance ) occur , rather than searching for universals in the  स्टाइल  of physics or chemistry .
In 1972 the International Association of Cross-Cultural Psychology ( IACCP  )  was established  .
This branch of psychology has continued to expand as there has been an increasing popularity of incorporating culture and diversity into studies .
Cross-cultural psychology  is   differentiated  from Cultural psychology .
The latter is the branch of psychology that holds that  इंसान  behavior is significantly influenced by cultural differences , meaning that psychological phenomena can only be compared with each other across cultures to  a  very limited extent .
in  contrast , cross-cultural psychology includes a search for possible universals in behavior and mental  प्रक्रियाओं   .
Walter J. Lonner , writing for Eye on Psi Chi , has  stated  that `` cross-cultural psychology can be thought of as a type research methodology ,  बल्कि  than an entirely separate field within psychology  (  2000 ) .  ''
`` Judas '' is  a  song by American recording artist Lady Gaga , from her second studio album Born This  रास्ता  (  2011  ) .
It was  released  by Interscope  रिकॉर्ड  on April 15 , 2011 , four days ahead of its scheduled release .
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne , `` Judas '' is a dance and electro house song about a woman  in  love with a man who betrayed her .
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga in the past , and its core meaning refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape  .
Gaga has further  समझाया  that the song was also about honoring one 's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the  लाइट  .
The artwork  लिये   the  single was designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word  .
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups , the song was generally well  प्राप्त  by critics , who likened the song  to  `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have  महरूम  the album 's lead single .
The song  रै  a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks  ,  including `` Poker  फेस  `` ,  ``   lovegame  `` , ``  ख़राब  Romance  ''   ,  and `` Alejandro `` .
It contains three distinct hooks and a house -influenced break down .
Gaga  समझाया  that the lines spoken during the breakdown talk about her as beyond redemption  ,  regarding the traditional views of what a woman should  be   .
`` Judas ''  initially  had a strong sales opening , but was less successful commercially in  तुलना  to Gaga 's previous singles .
The song reached the top ten of the charts in most major music markets , and also reached the top of the charts  in  South Korea .
A  म्यूज़िक  video for the  सोंग  was filmed in April 2011 , co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann  गिब्सन  and co-starring Norman Reedus .
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus played Judas Iscariot and Gaga played Mary Magdalene .
The video portrays them as modern day missionaries going to Jerusalem .
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying Jesus , and ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to  मौत  .
Before its release , the Catholic League condemned Gaga  लिये  the alleged use of religious imagery and her role in the video .
however  , critics generally praised the  वीडियो   ,  not finding any offensive content .
The video was nominated for two awards  at  the 2011 MTV  वीडियो  Music Awards .
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a  क्रमांक  of television shows , including The  ग्राहम  Norton Show , Saturday Night Live  ,  Good Morning Americas `` Summer  कॉन्सर्ट  Series '' , the French X Factor as well as on  the  Ellen DeGeneres Show .
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( Advanced Video Coding ) is a  मानक  for video compression , and is currently one of the most commonly used formats for the recording  ,  compression , and distribution of high definition video .
The final drafting work on the first version of the standard  थी  completed in May 2003  .
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -based codec standard developed by the ITU-T Video Coding Experts Group ( VCEG ) together  साथ  the  iso/iec   jtc1  Moving Picture Experts  समूह  ( MPEG ) .
The project partnership effort is known as the Joint  वीडियो  Team ( JVT ) .
The ITU-T H.264 standard and the  iso/iec  MPEG-4  avc  standard ( formally  ,  ISO/IEC 14496-10  –  MPEG-4 Part 10 , Advanced Video Coding ) are jointly maintained so  कि  they have identical technical content  .
H.264 is perhaps best known as being one of the codec standards for  blu-ray  Discs ; all Blu-ray  डिस्क  players must be able to decode H.264 .
It is also widely used by streaming internet sources , such as  वीडियो  from Vimeo ,  youtube  , and the iTunes Store , web software such as the Adobe Flash  खिलाड़ी  and Microsoft Silverlight , and also various HDTV broadcasts over terrestrial ( ATSC , ISDB-T  ,  DVB-T or DVB-T2 ) , cable ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S  और  DVB-S2 ) .
Non-binding arbitration is a  प्रकार  of arbitration in which the arbitrator makes a determination of the rights of the parties to the dispute , but this determination  is  not binding upon them , and no enforceable arbitration award is issued  .
The `` award '' is in effect an advisory  राय  of the arbitrator 's view of the respective merits of  the   पार्टियों  cases .
Non-binding arbitration is  प्रयुक्त  in connection with attempts to  पहुँचें  a  negotiated  settlement .
The role of an arbitrator in non-binding  मध्यस्थता   is  , on the surface , similar to  कि  of  a  mediator in a mediation .
However , the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the parties find a middle ground to  सुलह  at , the arbitrator remains totally removed from  the  settlement process and will  तभी  give a determination of liability and , if appropriate , an indication of the quantum of damages payable .
subsequent  to a non-binding  मध्यस्थता  , the parties remain free to pursue their claims  either  through the courts , or by way of a binding  मध्यस्थता  ,  हालांकि  in practice a settlement is the most common outcome .
The award and reasoning  in  a non-binding arbitration is almost invariably inadmissible in any  subsequent  action in the courts or in another arbitration tribunal .
Non-binding arbitration is  utilised  mostly in the United States and Canada  .
It is largely unknown in Europe , although in the United  किंगडम  there is a practice of parties who are seeking a settlement  to  jointly  instruct   a  Queen 's Counsel  लिये  an opinion on  the  merits and likely quantum of  a  claim , and then to negotiate on the basis of the views expressed in that opinion .
Augustine  ज्वालामुखी  is a Lava Dome Complex on Augustine Island in southwestern Cook Inlet in the Kenai Peninsula Borough of southcentral coastal Alaska , southwest of Anchorage .
The Alaska  ज्वालामुखी  Observatory currently rates Mount Augustine as Level of Concern Color  कोड  Green for aviation and the Volcano Alert Level is at Normal .
Augustine Island has a land area of  ,  while West Island  ,  just off  अगस्टाइन  's western shores , has .
The island is made up mainly of past eruption deposits  .
Scientists have been able to discern that past dome collapse has resulted in large  avalanches  .
A map of Belize .
The country of Belize has roughly 386 km  of  coastline , and has  अनेक  coral reefs  ,  cays , and islands in the Caribbean Sea .
Most of these form the Belize Barrier Reef , the longest in the western hemisphere stemming approximately .
The reef and its islands have been  a  UNESCO World Heritage Site  चूंकि  1996 .
The following is a  सूची  of  oceanic  islands of Belize  ,  arranged according to region  लकिन  all of  जिससे  are in the Caribbean Sea .
सबसे  of the islands variate in spelling between `` cay '' and `` caye '' , and also use  the  Spanish `` cayo  ''  .
River islands have not been listed .
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a  discontinued  commercial packet writing application for the Microsoft Windows operating system that allows optical disc data storage devices to be used in a manner similar to floppy disks .
DLA is a packet writing  प्रौद्योगिकी  for CD and DVD media that uses the UDF file system .
DLA is not compatible with Windows Vista and newer , although a patch exists to fix this  समस्या  under Windows  विस्टा  .
Roxio Burn was introduced on April 30 , 2009 .
As a replacement  लिये  DLA ,  it   remedies  compatibility issues Internet Explorer 8 .
Alpha Rex Emmanuel Humbard ( August 13 , 1919 – September 21 , 2007 ) was a well-known American television evangelist whose Cathedral of Tomorrow show was  दिखाया   on  over 600 stations  at   the  peak  of  its popularity .
Limitless is a 2011 American thriller film directed  by  Neil  बर्गर  and starring  ब्राडली  Cooper , Abbie Cornish , and Robert De Niro .
It is based on the 2001 novel The  अंधेरा  Fields by Alan Glynn with the screenplay by Leslie Dixon .
Alaska ( ) is a  राज्य  in the United  राज्य  , situated in the northwest extremity  of  the North American continent , with the international boundary  साथ   कनाडा  to the east , the Arctic Ocean to the north , and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south , with Russia further west across the Bering Strait .
Alaska is the largest state in the United States by area , the 4th least populous and the  तनिक   densely  populated of the 50  संयुक्त   राज्य  .
लगभग  half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents  सजीव  within the Anchorage metropolitan area .
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil  ,  natural gas ,  और  fishing industries ; it  रै  these resources in abundance .
Alaska was purchased from  रूस  on March  30  , 1867 , for  $  7.2 million ( $  समायोजित  for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The land went through several administrative changes  पहले  becoming an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11 , 1912 , and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3 , 1959 .
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period , when it was used only for the peninsula and is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq , meaning `` the mainland ''  or  , more literally , `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed '' .
It is  भी  known as Alyeska , the `` great land '' , an Aleut word derived from the same  रूट  .
Nelson Mandela Metropolitan  विश्वविद्यालयों  ( NMMU ) is a South African tertiary education institution with its main administration in the coastal city  of  Port Elizabeth .
A  विलय   of  three institutions founded NMMU in January 2005 but  इसके  history dates back to 1882 with the foundation of Port Elizabeth Art School .
The University draws international students from all over the world .
There are over 3000 international students and include students from the United States , France , China  ,  Germany , Belgium , Denmark , Finland , Netherlands , Norway , Sweden , United Kingdom and  अनेक   अन्य  countries .
NMMU is a comprehensive university offering professional and vocational  प्रशिक्षण  .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों   रै  six campuses - five in Port Elizabeth and one in George .
The main campus is the South Campus .
Students  at  NMMU can  पढ़ाई  towards diplomas and degrees up to and including doctoral level qualifications .
a  number of courses include workplace experience as part of the curriculum .
CoverGirl  is  an American cosmetics brand founded in Maryland , by the Noxzema Chemical Company ( later called  noxell  ) and acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1989 .
The Noxell Company advertised this  कॉस्मेटिक्स  line by allowing `` cover girls '' , fashion models who appear  on  the front cover of women 's magazines , to wear its products .
CoverGirl makes up for lack of direct individual customer service by providing a wide variety of cosmetics available at reasonable  कीमतें  .
On the Origin of Species , published on 24 November 1859 , is a work of  वैज्ञानिक   साहित्य  by Charles Darwin which is considered to be the foundation of evolutionary biology .
Its full title was  on   the  Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection , or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life .
For the sixth edition of 1872 , the  छोटी  title was changed to The Origin of Species .
Darwin 's  किताब  introduced the scientific theory that populations evolve over the course of generations through a process of natural selection .
It presented  a  body of evidence that the diversity of life arose by  आम  descent through a branching  पैटर्न  of evolution .
Darwin included  प्रमाण  that he had gathered on  the  Beagle  expedition  in the 1830s and his subsequent findings from research , correspondence , and experimentation .
Various evolutionary ideas  था  already been proposed to explain new findings in biology .
There was growing  support  for  ऐसे   विचार  among dissident anatomists and the  सामान्य  public , but during the first half of the 19th century the English scientific establishment was closely tied to the Church of England ,  जबकि  science  थी  part of natural  धर्मशास्त्र  .
Ideas  परिचय  the  transmutation  of species were controversial as they  विरोधी   साथ  the beliefs that species were unchanging parts of a designed hierarchy and that humans were unique , unrelated to other animals .
The political and theological implications were  पडती  debated , but transmutation was not accepted by the scientific mainstream .
The book was written for non-specialist readers and attracted widespread interest upon its publication .
As Darwin was an eminent scientist  ,  his findings were taken seriously and the evidence he presented generated scientific , philosophical , and religious discussion .
The debate over  the  book contributed to  the  campaign by T.H . Huxley and his fellow members of the X Club to secularise science by promoting scientific naturalism .
Within two decades  वहीँ   थी  widespread scientific agreement that evolution , with a branching pattern of common descent , had occurred  ,  but scientists were slow to give natural selection  the  significance that  डार्विन  thought appropriate .
दौरान  the `` eclipse of Darwinism `` from the 1880s to the 1930s ,  विभिन्न  other mechanisms of evolution were given more credit .
With the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s  और  1940s , Darwin 's concept of evolutionary adaptation through natural selection became central to  आधुनिक  evolutionary theory , now  the  unifying concept  of  the life sciences .
Charles Dillon `` Casey '' Stengel ( ; July 30 , 1890 – September 29  ,  1975 ) , nicknamed `` The Old  perfessor  '' , was an American  प्रमुख  League Baseball outfielder  और  manager .
He was elected  to  the Baseball Hall  of  Fame in .
Stengel was born in Kansas City , Missouri  ,  and originally nicknamed `` Dutch '' , a common nickname at that time for Americans of German ancestry .
After his major league  करियर  began , he acquired the nickname `` Casey '' , which originally came from the initials of his hometown ( `` K. C.  ''  ) ,  जिससे  evolved into `` Casey '' , influenced by the wide  लोकप्रियता  of the poem Casey at the Bat  .
In the 1950s , sportswriters dubbed him with yet another  उपनाम  , `` The  बूढ़ा   प्राध्यापक  ''  (   or  `` Perfessor '' ) , for his sharp wit and his ability to  बात  at length on anything baseball -related  .
Although his baseball career  spanned  a number of teams and cities  ,  he is primarily  संबद्ध  with clubs in New York City .
Between playing and  मैनेजिंग  , he  is  the only man to have worn  चार  of New York 's major league clubs ' uniforms .
He was the  पहला   of  four men ( through the season ) to manage both the New York Yankees and New  यॉर्क  Mets ; Yogi Berra , Dallas Green  ,  and Joe Torre are the others .
Like Torre , he also managed the Braves and the Dodgers .
He ended his baseball career as the beloved manager for the  तब   विस्तार  New  यॉर्क  Mets , which won over the hearts of New  यॉर्क  partly due to the unique character of their veteran leader .
June ( ) is the  छठे  month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars and one of the four months with a length of 30 days  .
Ovid provides two  etymologies  for June 's name in his poem concerning  the  months entitled the Fasti .
The first is that the month is named after the Roman goddess Juno , wife of Jupiter and equivalent to the Greek goddess Hera ; the second is that the name comes from the Latin word iuniores , meaning ``  younger   ones  , '' as opposed to maiores ( ``  बड़ो  '' ) for which the  preceding  month May may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ) .
See : Months in various  पंचांग  also called the season of the June is the month with  the  longest daylight hours  of  the year in the  उत्तरी   गोलार्ध  and the shortest daylight hours  of  the year in the Southern Hemisphere .
June in the Northern  गोलार्ध  is the seasonal equivalent to December in the  दक्षिणी  Hemisphere and vice versa .
In the Northern hemisphere  ,  the beginning of the meteorological summer is 1  जून  .
In the Southern hemisphere  ,  the beginning of the meteorological winter is 1 June  .
At the start of June , the sun rises in the constellation of Taurus ; at the end of June , the sun  उदय  in the constellation  of  Gemini .
However , due  to  the precession of the equinoxes , June begins with the sun in the astrological sign of  मिथुन  , and ends  साथ  the sun  in  the astrological sign of Cancer .
June is known  लिये  the large number of  विवाह  that  occur  over the course of the month .
According to one etymology  ,  June is named after Juno ( Hera ) .
Juno was  the  goddess  of  marriage and a married couple 's household , so some consider it good luck to be married in this month .
According to another etymology  provided  by the Roman poet  ओविड  , June is named for the  iuniores  , latin  लिये  `` young people '' (  fasti  VI.88 ) and that the month of  may  is named  लिये  the maiores , Latin  लिये  `` elders '' .
In Iceland , folklore says  कि  if you bathe naked in the morning  ओस  on the morning of June 24 ,  तुम  are supposed to keep aging at bay for longer .
A constitution  is  a set of fundamental principles or established precedents according to which a state  or  other organization is governed .
These rules together make up , i.e . constitute , what the entity is .
When these principles are written down into a  सिंगल  document or set of legal documents , those documents may be said to embody a written constitution ; if they are written down in a  सिंगल  comprehensive document , it  is  said to embody a codified constitution .
Constitutions concern  अलग  levels of organizations , from sovereign states to  कंपनियाँ  and unincorporated associations .
A treaty which establishes an international organization is also its constitution , in that it would define how that organization is constituted .
Within states , whether sovereign or federated  ,  a  संविधान  defines the principles upon which the state is based ,  the  procedure in  जिससे  laws are made and by whom .
Some constitutions ,  विशेषकर  codified constitutions , also act as limiters of state power , by establishing lines  जिससे  a state 's rulers can not cross , such as fundamental  अधिकारों  .
George Washington at Constitutional Convention of 1787  ,  signing of U.S. Constitution .
The Constitution of India is the  longest  written constitution of any sovereign country in the world , containing 448 articles , 12 schedules and 100 amendments , with 117,369 words  in  its English  भाषा  version , while the United States Constitution is the shortest written constitution , at 7 articles and 27 amendments .
Ron  diftler  ( left ) , NASA Robonaut manager assisting in a Robonaut familiarization training session in the Space Environment  सिमुलेशन   प्रयोगशाला  at NASA  's  Johnson Space Center .
Engineering management is a specialized form  of  management that is  चिंतित  with the application of engineering  सिद्धान्त  to  कारोबार  practice .
Engineering management is  a  career that  brings  together the technological problem-solving savvy of  अभियान्त्रिकी  and  the  organizational  ,  administrative , and planning abilities of management in order to oversee complex enterprises from conception to completion .
Example areas of engineering are product development , manufacturing ,  निर्माण  , design engineering , industrial engineering , technology , production , or any other field that  employs  personnel who perform an engineering function .
Successful  अभियान्त्रिकी  managers typically require  प्रशिक्षण   और  experience in  कारोबार  and engineering .
Technically inept managers tend to be deprived of support  by  their technical team , and non-commercial managers tend to lack commercial acumen to deliver in a market economy  .
Largely , engineering managers manage engineers who are driven by non-entrepreneurial thinking ,  यूँ  require the necessary people skills to coach , mentor and motivate technical professionals  .
अभियान्त्रिकी  professionals joining  निर्माण  companies  sometimes  become engineering managers by default after a period of time .
They  हैं  required to learn how  to  manage once they are on  the  job , though this is usually an ineffective way to develop managerial abilities .
in  an insurance policy ,  the  deductible is the amount of expenses that must be paid out  of  pocket before an insurer will  अदा  any expenses .
In general usage , the term deductible may  be  used to  describe  one of several types of clauses  (  see below  )  that are used by insurance companies as a threshold for policy payments .
Deductibles are typically used to deter the large number of trivial claims that a consumer can be reasonably expected to bear the  लागत  of  .
By restricting its coverage  to   कार्यक्रम  that  हैं  significant enough to incur large  लागत  , the insurance firm expects to pay out slightly smaller amounts much less frequently , incurring much higher savings .
as   a  result , insurance premiums are typically cheaper when they involve higher deductibles .
Deductibles are normally provided as clauses in an insurance policy that  dictate  how much of an insurance-covered  व्यय   is  borne by the policyholder .
They are normally quoted as a fixed quantity and is a part of most  नीतियों  covering losses to the policy holder .
The insurer then becomes liable for claimable expenses that exceed this amount ( subject to the maximum  योग  claimable indicated in the contract ) .
Depending on the policy , the  deductible  may apply per covered incident  ,  or per year .
For policies where incidences are not easy to delimit ( for example health insurance ) , the deductible is typically applied  प्रति  year .
Several deductibles can be set by the insurer based on the cause  of  the claim .
For example , a  सिंगल  housing insurance policy may contain multiple deductible amounts for loss or damage arising from theft , fire , natural calamities , evacuation  इत्यादि  .
There are also deductible reimbursement programs that reimburse a deductible in  the  event of an  स्वचालित  , home  ,  boat/yacht or  स्वास्थ्य  insurance claim .
An  चालान  or bill is a commercial document issued by  a  seller to a buyer , indicating the products , quantities , and agreed prices for products or  सेवाएं  the seller has provided the buyer .
An  चालान  indicates the  बिक्री  transaction only .
Payment terms are independent of the  चालान  and are negotiated by the buyer and the seller .
Payment terms are usually  शामिल  on the invoice .
The buyer could have already paid for the products or services listed on the invoice .
Buyer can also have  a  maximum  क्रमांक  of days in which to pay for these goods and is sometimes offered a discount if paid before the due date .
In the rental industry , an invoice must include a specific reference to the duration of the time being billed , so in  जोड   to  quantity , price  और  discount the invoicing amount is also based on duration  .
Generally each line of a rental invoice will refer to the actual  घंटों  , days ,  सप्ताह  , months , etc. ,  होने  billed .
From the point of view of a seller , an invoice is a sales invoice .
From the point of view of a buyer , an invoice is a purchase invoice .
The document indicates the buyer and seller , but the  पद  invoice indicates money is owed or owing .
In English ,  the  context of the term invoice is usually used to clarify its meaning , such as  ``   we  sent them an invoice  ''  ( they owe us money ) or `` We received  an  invoice from them '' ( we  owe  them money )  .
The right main bronchus  (  or right primary bronchus , or  सही   प्रिंसिपल  bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system .
It is wider , shorter , and more vertical in direction than  the  left .
it  is about 2.5 cm long  ,  and enters the right lung nearly opposite the fifth thoracic  vertebra  .
The azygos vein arches over it from behind ; and the right pulmonary artery lies at first below  और  then in front of  it  .
About  2  cm from its commencement it gives off a branch to the upper  पालि  of the right  फेफड़ों  .
This is termed the eparterial branch  of  the bronchus , because  it  arises above the right pulmonary artery .
The  bronchus  now passes below the artery , and is known as the hyparterial branch ; it divides into two branches for the middle  और  lower lobes .
If  a  foreign body in the airway passes through the trachea , it will most likely enter the right main bronchus instead of the left , due to the straighter alignment of the right bronchus to the trachea .
Squash is a  racquet  sport  निभाई  by two ( singles ) or four  खिलाड़ी  ( doubles ) in a four-walled court with a small , hollow rubber  बॉल  .
The players must alternate in striking the  बॉल   साथ  their racquet and  hit  the ball onto the playable surfaces of the four walls of the  अदालत  .
The game was formerly  पुकारा  squash  racquets  , a reference to the `` squashable '' soft ball used in the game ( compared with the fatter ball used  in  its parent game racquets or rackets ) .
Squash is recognized by the IOC and supporters are lobbying for its incorporation in a future  ओलम्पिक  program .
in  2003 ,  फोर्ब्स  rated squash as the number one healthiest sport to play .
अवशेष   आयल  is oil found in  कम  concentrations naturally or in exhausted oil fields .
Often mixed with water , it can not be recovered by conventional techniques .
However  ,  it can be recovered using carbon dioxide-enhanced oil recovery ( CO2 EOR  )  which involves injecting carbon dioxide into the well reducing viscosity and  बढ़ाना  flow of the oil .
The technique is not new  लकिन  has not been used extensively on residual oil  zones  , low-grade deposits of  पेट्रोलियम  such as the  38  square miles  in  the Permian Basin  of  Texas leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr  .
The technique is limited  by   उपलब्धता  of carbon dioxide .
It does not result  in   sequestration  of the carbon dioxide but the gas is recycled as much as possible .
United States reserves of residual oil are estimated to be 100 billion barrels  .
Artist 's rendering of the fire , by John R. Chapin , originally printed in Harper 's Weekly ; the view faces northeast across  the  Randolph Street  सेतु  .
The Great Chicago Fire was a conflagration that burned from Sunday ,  अक्तूबर  8 , to early Tuesday , October 10 , 1871  ,  killing  सैंकड़ों  and destroying about in Chicago , Illinois .
Though the fire was one of the largest U.S. disasters of the 19th century , the rebuilding that began helped develop Chicago as one of the most populous and economically important American cities .
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) was king of England from 21 April 1509 until his death .
He  थी  lord  ,  and  बाद   किंग  , of Ireland , as well as continuing the nominal  अर्जी  by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France .
Henry was the second monarch of the Tudor dynasty , succeeding  उसके  father , Henry VII .
besides  his six marriages ,  हेनरी  VIII  is  known for his role in the separation of the  गिरिजाघर  of England from the Roman Catholic Church  .
Henry 's struggles with Rome  led  to the separation of the Church of England from papal  प्राधिकार  ,  the  Dissolution  of  the Monasteries , and his own establishment as the Supreme Head  of  the Church of England .
Yet  he  remained  a  believer in core Catholic theological teachings , even after his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and  वेल्स  with the Laws in Wales Acts 1535  और  1542 .
In  1513  , the new king allied  साथ  the Holy  रोमन  Emperor , Maximillian I ,  और  invaded  फ़्रांस  in 1513 with a large , well-equipped army , but achieved little at a considerable financial cost .
maximillian  , for his  भाग  ,  प्रयुक्त  the English invasion to his own ends , and this prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the French  .
This foray would prove  the  start of  an   obsession  for Henry  ,  who  invaded  again in 1544  .
इस  time , Henry  's  forces captured the important city of Boulogne , but again the Holy Roman Emperor , Charles  v   ,  supported  हेनरी  only as long as he needed to and England , strained by the enormous cost of the war , ransomed the city back for peace .
His contemporaries  माना  Henry in his prime to be an attractive  ,  educated and accomplished king , and he has been described as  ``  one  of   the  most charismatic rulers to sit on  the   अंग्रेज़ी  throne '' .
Besides ruling with absolute power , he also engaged himself as an author and composer .
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to  consolidate  the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars  of  the Roses  –  led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and  the  English Reformation .
Henry became morbidly obese and  उसके  health suffered ,  contributing  to his  मौत  in 1547 .
He is frequently characterised  in   उसके  later life as a lustful , egotistical , harsh , and insecure king .
La Reina del Sur  (  The Queen of the South ) is  a   spanish-language  telenovela produced by the United States television network Telemundo , in conjunction with the Antena 3 network  और  RTI Producciones  .
Based on a novel of the same name by Spanish author  arturo  Pérez-Reverte  ,  the drama depicts the rise of  टेरेसा  Mendoza ( Kate del Castillo ) , a young woman from Mexico who becomes the most powerful drug trafficker in southern Spain .
Patricio Wills , the president of Telemundo Television Studios , was the executive producer .
Though La Reina del Sur was nominated for Novela of the Year , Favorite  सीसे  Actress , and  बेहतरीन  Bad Luck Video , it won  no  awards .
With  a  $ 10 million budget , La Reina del Sur was the most expensive telenovela ever produced by  telemundo  .
The program 's premiere on February 28 , 2011 , was the network 's highest rated premiere for  a  telenovela to date .
The  कार्यक्रम  frequently dominated its time slot ,  भी  over English language programming on other major U.S. networks .
La  reina  del Sur completed  इसके  63 episode  चलाएं  on Telemundo  और  its 13 episode run on Antena 3 simultaneously  on  May 30 , 2011 .
The final episode was the highest rated broadcast in  telemundo  's  19-year  history ( 4.2 million viewers  )  , and beat all of the English language U.S. television networks to earn the number one  स्लॉट  in the 18-49 adult demographic .
The program  's  success spurred Telemundo to launch its first campaign to gain the series an Emmy Award nomination .
A one-night special featuring several cast members aired on May 31 , 2011 , and marked the Telemundo debut of noted Latina television personality Cristina Saralegui  .
La  reina  del Sur is broadcast in  अनेक   अन्य  markets , including Serbia , Colombia , Chile  ,   साइप्रस  , Nicaragua , Costa Rica , Mexico , Albania , Hungary , Slovenia , Croatia , Romania , ( among others )  .
An example of rack mounted  सर्वर
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals and  संगठन  to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web .
Web hosts are companies that provide  स्पेस  on a server owned  or  leased  लिये  use by clients , as well as providing Internet connectivity , typically in a data center .
Web hosts can  भी  provide data  बीच  space and  कनेक्टिविटी  to the Internet for other servers located in their data  बीच  , called  colocation  , also  ज्ञात  as Housing in Latin America or  फ़्रांस  .
The  पैमाना  of web hosting services varies  greatly  .
The most basic is web  पेज  and small-scale file hosting , where files can be  अपलोड  via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP )  or  a Web interface .
the  files are usually delivered  to  the Web `` as is '' or with minimal processing  .
अनेक  Internet service providers ( ISPs ) offer this service free to  सदस्य  .
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web  पेज  hosting from alternative service providers .
Personal web site hosting is typically  फ़्री   ,  advertisement-sponsored , or inexpensive .
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense depending upon the size and type of  the  website .
Single page  होस्टिंग  is generally sufficient for personal web pages .
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides database support and application development platforms ( e.g . PHP  ,  Java , Ruby on Rails , ColdFusion , or ASP.NET ) .
ये  facilities  allow  customers to write or install scripts for applications like forums and content management .
Also , Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically used for  e-commerce  .
The host may also provide an  इंटरफ़ेस  or control panel for managing the Web server and installing scripts  ,  as  खूब  as other modules and service applications like e-mail .
Some  होस्ट  specialize in certain software or services ( e.g  .  e-commerce ) , which are commonly  प्रयुक्त  by larger companies that  outsource  network infrastructure .
मैडेन  NFL ( known as John Madden Football before 1993 ) is an American football video game series developed by Electronic Arts Tiburon for  ea  Sports .
The game series  is  named after Pro Football Hall of  famer  John Madden , a  well-known  former Super Bowl –winning coach of the Oakland Raiders  और  color commentator .
The series is the best selling EA Sports series .
The games have consistently been a best seller  ,  and has even spawned TV shows where players compete .
Among the game 's realistic features include sophisticated playbooks and player statistics , and voice commentary  कि  allows players to hear the  खेल  as if it were a real TV broadcast .
The Madden NFL series has been nicknamed the NFL 's 33rd Franchise .
the  series was originally conceived by Electronic Arts founder Trip Hawkins , who then approached Madden in 1984 for his endorsement and expertise .
Due  to  Madden 's insistence that  the  game be as realistic  as  possible , the first version  of  John Madden Football was  नहीं   released  until 1988 .
The second version of the game was released in  1990  , with annual versions since  तब  .
The series ' name was changed  to   मैडेन  NFL in 1993 after EA acquired the rights to use NFL teams and players .
despite  Madden 's retirement  as  a broadcaster  in  2009 , he continues to lend his name and provide expertise for the game .
Cindy Lee Miller Sheehan ( born July  10  , 1957 ) is an American  antiwar  activist  जिनकी  son , U.S. Army Specialist Casey Sheehan , was killed by enemy action during the Iraq War .
She attracted national and international media attention in  अगस्त   2005  for her extended antiwar protest at a makeshift camp outside  अध्यक्ष  George W. Bush 's Texas ranch —a stand that drew  दोनो   passionate  support  और  angry criticism .
Sheehan ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 2008 .
She is a vocal critic of President Barack Obama 's foreign policy .
Her memoir , Peace Mom : A Mother 's Journey Through Heartache to Activism , was  प्रकाशित   in  2006 .
Sheehan was the 2012 vice-presidential nominee of the  सलाम  and  स्वतंत्रता  Party .
Wyclef Jeanelle Jean ( ;  ;  born  अक्तूबर   17  , 1969 ) Wyclef  dumped   इससे  Haiti 's Presidential Ballot – TIME , Aug 21 , 2010 .
`` Before he announced on August 5 that he was running for President of  हैती  , Wyclef Jean was still  लिस्टिंग  his age as only 37  सालो   बूढ़ा   .
But  बाद  declaring himself a presidential candidate , the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop star also decided  to  come clean and confirm that he was really 40 . '' is  a  three-time Grammy Award -winning Haitian-American rapper  ,  singer-songwriter , musician , record producer , and politician  .
At age nine , Jean moved to the United States with his family and has spent much  of  his life in the country .
he  first received fame as a member of the acclaimed New Jersey hip hop group the Fugees  .
On August 5 , 2010 , Jean  दायर  for candidacy in the 2010 Haitian presidential election , although  the  Electoral Commission subsequently  शासित  him ineligible to stand as he had not met the requirement to  have  been resident in Haiti for  पाँच  years .
Wyclef Jean to appeal against Haiti election ruling –  बीबीसी  News  ,   अगस्त  22 , 2010 .
Haiti 's electoral commission said that Mr Jean was ineligible to stand as the Haitian constitution requires candidates to have lived  in  the country for five years prior to  an  election .
the  40-year-old singer lives in the US  .
Jean 's efforts at earthquake relief , highly publicized in 2010 throughout Haiti and the United States , were channeled through his charitable organization  ,  Yéle Haiti .
The charity , which performed a variety of charitable works in Haiti between 2005  और  2010 , effectively closed  in   2012  .
in  law , a set-off is a  statutory  defense  to  the whole or to a  portion  of a plaintiff 's claim  .
It had no  अस्तित्व  under the English  आम  law , being created by 2 Geo . II  c.  22  लिये  the  राहत  of insolvent debtors , although set-off was recognized in equity .
Such a defense could be pleaded only in respect of mutual debts of a definite character , and did not apply to cases  in  which damages  यहूद  claimed , nor to equitable claims or demands .
By the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX .  r.  3 ) a defendant in  an  action may set  बंद  or  नियत  up any right  or  claim by way of counterclaim against the claims of a plaintiff , and such set-off or counterclaim has the same effect  as  a statement  of  claim in a cross-action .
The legal defense of set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the unfair situation whereby  a  person ( `` Party A '' ) who owed money to another (  ``  Party B '' ) could be sent to debtors  थाना  , despite the fact  कि  Party B also owed money  to  Party A .
The law thus  allows  both  पार्टियों  to defer payment until their respective claims have been heard in  अदालत  .
Upon judgment , both claims are extinguished  और  replaced by a single  जाल  sum owing ( e.g . If Party A owes  पार्टी  B 100 and  पार्टी  B owes Party  a  105 , the  दो  sums are set  बंद  and replaced with a single obligation of 5 from  पार्टी  B to Party A ) .
Set-off can also be incorporated by contractual agreement so  कि  , where a party defaults , the mutual amounts owing are automatically set off  और  extinguished  .
In certain  jurisdictions  ( including the UK ) , set-off takes place automatically upon the insolvency of a company .
This means that , for each party which is both a creditor and debtor  of  the insolvent company , mutual debts are set-off  विरूद्ध  each other , and then  either   the  bankrupt 's creditor can claim the balance in the bankruptcy or the trustee in bankruptcy can ask for the balance remaining to be  सशुल्क  , depending on which side owed the  सबसे  .
This has been criticized as an undeclared security interest that violates the  principle  of  परी  passu .
The alternative , where  a   creditor  has  to  pay all its debts , but receive only a limited portion of the leftover moneys that other unsecured creditors get , poses  the  danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies .
The right to set off is particularly  महत्वपूर्ण  when reporting a bank 's exposures to regulatory authorities .
The situation where a bank has to  रपट  that it has lent  a  large sum to a borrower ( and is therefore exposed , because there is a risk that the borrower might default thereby leading to  the  loss of the bank  's  or its depositors ' money ) is thus replaced ( where the bank has taken security over shares or securities of the borrower ) with an exposure of the money lent minus the value  of  the security taken .
Jennifer Joanna Aniston ( born February  11  , 1969 ) is an American actress , film director , and producer .
Aniston gained worldwide recognition in the 1990s for  portraying  Rachel Green on the television sitcom Friends ,  a  role which earned her an Emmy Award , a Golden Globe Award , and a Screen Actors Guild Award  .
Aniston has  भी  enjoyed a successful Hollywood film career .
She gained critical acclaim for her performances in the independent films She  's  the One ( 1996 ) , Office Space ( 1999 ) , The Good Girl  (  2002 )  और  Friends with Money ( 2006 )  .
She has had her greatest commercial successes with the films Bruce Almighty ( 2003 ) , The Break-Up ( 2006 ) , Marley & Me ( 2008 ) , Just Go with It ( 2011 ) and Horrible  bosses   (  2011 ) .
Aniston received a  स्टार  on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on February 22 , 2012 .
A white Bengal  बाघ  at the Houston Aquarium
( video )
A White tiger at Tobu Zoo  ,  in Saitama , Japan .
The white tiger is a recessive mutant of  the  Bengal tiger , which was reported in the wild from time to time in Assam , Bengal , Bihar and especially from the former State of Rewa .
Conventional PCI  (  PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect , part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often shortened to  बस  PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer .
The PCI bus supports the  कृत्यों  found on a processor bus , but in a standardized  स्वरूप  that is  स्वतंत्र  of any particular processor .
Devices connected  to  the bus appear to the processor to be connected directly to the processor bus , and are assigned addresses in the processor 's  पता  space .
Attached devices can  लो  either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto  the  motherboard itself ,  पुकारा  a planar device in  the  PCI specification  ,  or an expansion  कार्ड  that fits into a slot .
The PCI Local Bus  थी   पहला  implemented in  ibm  PC compatibles ,  जहाँ  it displaced the combination of ISA plus one  vesa  Local  बस  as the bus configuration .
It has subsequently been adopted for other computer types .
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express , but , most motherboards are still made with  एक  or more PCI slots , which are  sufficient  for many uses .
The PCI specification  कवर  the physical size of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the circuit board edge electrical contacts ) , electrical  विशेषताएँ  , bus timing , and  प्रोटोकॉल  .
The specification can be purchased from the PCI Special Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ) .
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network cards , sound cards , modems , extra ports such as USB or serial , TV tuner  ताश  and disk controllers .
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA  ताश  , until  growing  bandwidth requirements outgrew the capabilities of  पीसीआई  ; the preferred interface for video cards became  अगप  , and then PCI Express .
PCI video cards remain available  लिये  use with  बूढ़ा  PCs without AGP or PCI Express slots .
अनेक  devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are  अभी  commonly integrated onto motherboards or  उपलब्धियाँ  in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions .
Caffeine is a bitter , white crystalline xanthine alkaloid that acts as a stimulant drug .
Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the seeds ,  पत्ते  , and fruit of  कुछ  plants  ,  where it acts as a natural pesticide that paralyzes and kills  निश्चित  insects feeding on the plants , as well as enhancing the reward memory of pollinators .
It  is  most commonly consumed by humans in infusions extracted from the seed of the  कॉफी  plant and the leaves of the tea bush , as well as  इससे   विभिन्न   भोजन  and  पेय  containing products derived from the kola nut .
Other sources include yerba maté , guarana  जामुन  , guayusa , and the yaupon holly .
In humans , caffeine acts as a central nervous system  उत्तेजक  ,  temporarily  warding off drowsiness  और  restoring alertness .
It  is  the world 's most widely consumed psychoactive drug ,  लकिन  unlike many other psychoactive substances , it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the  संसार  .
Beverages containing caffeine , such as  कॉफी  , tea , soft drinks ,  और  energy drinks ,  आनंद  great popularity .
In North  अमेरिका  , 90 % of adults consume caffeine daily .
Part of the reason caffeine is classified  by   the  Food and Drug Administration as  ग्रा  ( generally  पहचाना  as safe ) is that toxic  doses  ( over 10 grams  )  are much higher than typically used doses ( less than 500 milligrams ) .
Ordinary consumption can have low  स्वास्थ्य  risks  ,  even when carried on for years – there may be a  modest  protective effect against some diseases ,  सहित   parkinsons  Disease , and  निश्चित  types of cancer .
Caffeine can have both positive and negative effects on anxiety disorders .
Some people experience sleep disruption if they consume caffeine ,  विशेषकर   दौरान  the evening hours , but others show little disturbance and the effect of caffeine on sleep is highly variable .
Evidence  of  a risk to  गर्भावस्था  is equivocal , but some authorities have concluded that prudent  सलाह  is for pregnant women to limit consumption to the  समतुल्य  of two cups of coffee  प्रति  day or  कम  .
The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (  acog  ) concluded in 2010 that caffeine  खपत  is  सुरक्षित  up to 200 mg per day in pregnant women .
Caffeine has pressor and mild  diuretic  effects when administered to people who are not used to it , but regular users develop a tolerance to this effect , and studies have  generally  failed to support the common notion that ordinary consumption contributes significantly to dehydration  .
With heavy use , tolerance develops  rapidly  to autonomic effects such as elevated heart rate and muscle twitching , but not to the cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine .
The degree to which caffeine can produce clinically significant physical and mental dependence remains a subject of controversy in the medical literature .
A kicktail cruiser
A longboard is a longer variant of a  स्केटबोर्ड  .
It  is  commonly used for cruising , downhill racing , slalom racing , sliding , and/or  हस्तांतरण  .
स्त्रोत  outside of Wikipedia give differing estimates:
The CIA  's  World Factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est . ) and the distribution of religions as Christian 100  %  ( of which Roman Catholic 18.85 % ,  प्रोटोस्टेंट  8.15 % , Orthodox  4.96  %  ,  Anglican 1.26 % ) , Muslim 22.74 %  ,  Hindu 13.8 % , Buddhist 6.77 % , Sikh 0.35 % , Jewish 0.22  %  ,  baha'i  0.11 % , other religions 10.95 % , non-religious 9.66 % , atheists 2.01 % .
( 2010  est  . ) .
The Coast Ranges of California span  इससे  Humboldt County , California south  to  Santa Barbara County .
The other three coastal California  पहाड़  ranges are the Transverse Ranges  ,  Peninsular Ranges and the Klamath Mountains .
Physiographically , they are a section of the larger Pacific Border province , which in turn are  भाग  of the larger Pacific Mountain System  physiographic  division .
UNESCO has included the `` California Coast Ranges Biosphere Reserve `` in its Man and the Biosphere Programme of World Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1983  .
Vehicles in use per country from 2001 to  2007  .
it  shows the significant growth in BRIC .
World map  of  passenger cars per 1000 people
An automobile , autocar , motor car or car is a wheeled motor vehicle used for  transporting  passengers , which also carries its own  इंजन  or motor .
Most definitions of the term specify that automobiles are designed  to  run primarily on roads ,  to  have seating for one to eight people , to typically have four wheels , and to be constructed principally for the transport  of  people rather than goods  .
The term motorcar has also been used in the context of electrified rail systems to denote a car which  कृत्यों   as   a  small locomotive but also provides space for passengers and baggage .
These  लोकोमोटिव   गाड़ियाँ  were often used on suburban routes by both interurban and intercity railroad systems .
It was estimated  in  2010 that the number of automobiles had risen  to  over  1  billion vehicles , up from the 500 million of 1986 .
The numbers are increasing rapidly , especially  in  China and India .
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29 , 1917  –  November 22 , 1963 ) , often referred to  by   उसके  initials  jfk  , was the 35th President of the United States , serving from 1961  जबतक  his death in  1963  .
After military service as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 during World War II  in  the South Pacific  ,  Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as  a  Democrat .
Thereafter , he served in the U.S. Senate from  1953   जबतक  1960  .
Kennedy defeated Vice President  और   रिपब्लिकन  candidate Richard Nixon in the  1960  U.S. presidential election .
At 43 years of age , he is the youngest to have been elected to the office , the second-youngest President ( after Theodore Roosevelt )  ,  and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president .
A Catholic , Kennedy is the only non- Protestant  अध्यक्ष  , and is  the  only president to have won  a  Pulitzer Prize .
Events during  उसके  presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion  ,  the Cuban Missile Crisis  ,  the building  of  the Berlin Wall  ,  the  स्पेस  Race , the African-American Civil  अधिकारों  Movement ,  और  early stages of the Vietnam War .
Therein , Kennedy  increased  the number  of  military advisers ,  खास  operation forces , and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread  of  communism in South East Asia .
The  कैनेडी  administration  अपनाया  the policy of  the  Strategic  हैमलेट  Program which was implemented  by  the South Vietnamese government .
It involved certain  मजबूर  relocation , village internment , and segregation of rural South Vietnamese from the northern and southern communist insurgents .
Kennedy was assassinated on November 22 , 1963 in Dallas , Texas .
Lee Harvey  ओसवाल्ड  was  चार्ज  with the crime , but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later  ,  before a trial could take place .
The FBI  और  the Warren Commission officially  concluded  that Oswald was the lone assassin .
However ,  the  United States House Select Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations  यहूद  flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy .
however  ,  एबीसी  News in their investigation , The Kennedy Assassination :  परे  Conspiracy , confirmed the findings of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone .
कैनेडी  's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber program led to a Congressional investigation that lasted from  1963  to 1970 .
Since the 1960s information concerning Kennedy  's  private life has come to light .
विवरण  of Kennedy  's  health  समस्याएं   in  which he struggled  have  become better known ,  विशेषकर   चूंकि   the  1990s .
Although initially kept secret from the general  पब्लिक  , reports of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press .
Kennedy ranks highly in public opinion ratings of U.S. presidents .
A Siemens MXL fire alarm control panel ( top ) and graphic annunciator ( bottom ) for Potomac Hall , at James Madison University .
A Vigilant VM-1 fire alarm control  ईकाई  ( FACU )  /  autonomous control unit ( ACU ) with integrated voice evacuation and fire fighter  टेलीफोन  system .
Manufactured  by  Edwards , A UTC F & S Company
A Fire Alarm Control Panel ( FACP ) , or Fire Alarm Control Unit  (  FACU ) , is the controlling component of  a   आग  Alarm System .
The panel  receives   सूचना  from environmental sensors  designed  to detect changes associated with fire , monitors  उनके   operational  integrity  और  provides for automatic  कंट्रोल  of  उपकरण  , and transmission of information necessary to prepare the  सुविधा  for fire based on a predetermined sequence .
The panel may  भी  supply electrical energy  to  operate any associated  सेंसर  ,  कंट्रोल  , transmitter , or  रिले  .
वहीँ  are four basic types of panels : coded panels , conventional panels , addressable panels , and multiplex systems .
This is a list  of  the first music videos broadcast on MTV 's  पहला  day ,  अगस्त  1 , 1981 .
MTV 's  पहला  day on the air was rebroadcast on VH1 Classic in 2006 and  अपलोड  onto YouTube in 2010 ( although only the first four  घंटों  were authentic ;  the  rest were edited VH1  rebroadcasts  ) .
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( also  ज्ञात  as  katunayake  International Airport and Colombo International Airport ) is one of the two international airports serving the city of Colombo ,  the  other  is   ratmalana  International Airport  .
mattala  Rajapaksa International Airport located in southern  नगर  of Hambantota is the other international airport in Sri Lanka .
Bandaranaike  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport is located in Katunayake , 22 miles (  35  km ) north of  कोलोन  .
It is administered by Airport and Aviation Services ( Sri Lanka ) Ltd .
It is the hub of SriLankan Airlines , the national carrier of Sri Lanka , and Mihin Lanka ,  the  budget airline of Sri Lanka .
Black Swan is a 2010 American psychological thriller and horror film directed by Darren Aronofsky and starring Natalie Portman , Vincent Cassel ,  और  Mila Kunis .
The plot  घूमती  around a production of Tchaikovsky 's Swan  झील  ballet by a prestigious New York City company .
The production  requires  a ballerina to play the innocent and fragile White Swan , for which the committed dancer Nina ( Portman ) is a perfect fit , as well as the dark and sensual Black Swan , which are qualities embodied by the new arrival  लिली  ( Kunis ) .
Nina is overwhelmed  by  a feeling of  immense  pressure when she finds herself competing for the part , causing her to lose her tenuous  पकड़  on reality  और  descend into a living nightmare .
aronofsky  conceived the premise by connecting his viewings of a production of Swan Lake with an  unrealized  screenplay  परिचय  understudies and the notion of being haunted by a double , similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers .
Aronofsky cites Fyodor Dostoyevsky 's ``  the  Double `` as another inspiration for the film .
the  director also considered Black Swan a companion piece to his 2008 film The Wrestler , with both films involving demanding performances for different  kinds  of art .
He and Portman first discussed the project in 2000 , and after a brief  अनुलग्नक  to Universal Studios , Black Swan was produced in New York City in 2009 by  फॉक्स  Searchlight Pictures .
Portman and Kunis trained in ballet  लिये  several months prior to  फिल्मांकन  , and notable figures  इससे  the ballet world helped with film production to shape the ballet presentation .
The film premiered as the opening film for the 67th Venice International Film Festival  on  September 1 , 2010 .
It  था  a limited release in the  संयुक्त  States  starting  December 3 , 2010 and opened nationwide on December 17 .
Black Swan received critical praise upon its release , particularly for Portman 's performance and  aronofsky  's  दिशा  , and was a significant box  दफ्तर  success  ,  grossing $ 329 million worldwide  .
the  film received five Academy Award nominations and Portman won the Best Actress award for the film , as well as many other  बेहतरीन  Actress awards in several guilds and festivals , while Aronofsky was nominated for Best Director  .
In  जोड  , the film itself received a nomination for Best Picture .
The  world’s  first ice-calorimeter , used in  the  winter of  1782-83  , by Antoine Lavoisier and Pierre-Simon Laplace , to determine the heat involved in various chemical changes ; calculations which were based on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent heat .
These experiments mark the foundation of thermochemistry .
A calorimeter ( from Latin calor , meaning heat ) is an object used for calorimetry , or the  प्रक्रम  of measuring the heat of  रासायनिक  reactions or physical changes as well as heat capacity .
Differential  स्कैनिंग   calorimeters  , isothermal microcalorimeters , titration calorimeters and accelerated rate calorimeters are among the most common types .
A simple calorimeter  बस  consists of a thermometer attached to a metal container full of water suspended above a combustion chamber .
To find the enthalpy change per mole of a substance A in a reaction between two substances A and B , the  substances  are added to a calorimeter and the initial and final temperatures (  पहले  the reaction started  और  after it has finished ) are noted .
Multiplying the temperature change by  the   द्रव्यमान  and specific heat capacities of the substances gives  a  value for the energy  दिए  off or absorbed during the reaction .
Dividing the  उर्जा  change by  कैसा  many moles  of  A were present gives its enthalpy change of reaction .
This method is used primarily in academic teaching as it describes the theory of calorimetry .
It does not account for the heat loss through the container or the heat capacity of the  थर्मामीटर  and container itself .
In addition , the object placed inside the calorimeter shows that the objects  transferred  their heat to the calorimeter and into the liquid , and the heat absorbed by  the  calorimeter and the liquid is equal to the heat  दिए  off by the metals .
a  pair of green flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri , thongs , jandals , or a variety of other names throughout  the  world ) are a type  of  open-toed sandal typically worn in  कैज़ुअल  situations , such as outside  or  at the beach  .
They consist of a flat sole held loosely on  the  foot by a Y-shaped  डोरी  that passes between the first and second toes and around either side of the foot  .
They may also be held  to  the foot with a single strap over the front of the foot rather than a  थोंग  .
The name ``  flip-flop  '' originated because of the sound that  is  made by slapping between  the  sole of  the   पैर  and the floor when walking .
This  स्टाइल  of footwear has been worn by  the  people of many cultures throughout the world , originating as early  as  the ancient Egyptians in 4,000 B.C .
The  आधुनिक  flip-flop descends from the Japanese zōri , which  became  popular after World War II when soldiers  returning  to the United States brought them back .
वे  became popular in casual settings during the 1960s , 1990s , and 2000s  ,  and some varieties have even found their way  into  more formal attire  ,  despite criticism .
The use of flip-flops can  परिणाम  in many pains and  चोटों  , including ankle sprains and broken bones .
Some individuals  जो  walk for long periods report pain in the feet , ankles , and lower legs .
The lack of  support  provided by flip-flops often results in over-pronation injuries , caused by the foot slipping inwards further  than  normal .
This can lead to flat feet  और  tendonitis .
Other injuries that may result are due to the footwear 's open-toed nature , such as stubbed toes , cuts , and bruises  .
Doctors recommend purchasing pricier sandals with thick-cushioned soles , as  खूब  as those that have a strap that is not canvas and that comes back almost to the  टखने  .
The owners of Hanjin Osaka , seen here transiting the Panama Canal in 2008 , declared general average following an explosion in the ship 's engine room on  .
The law of general average is  a  legal principle of maritime law according to which all  पार्टियों  in a sea venture proportionally share any losses resulting from a voluntary sacrifice of part of  the  ship  or   कार्गो  to  सहेजें  the whole in an emergency .
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea , crew members often have  अनमोल  little time in which to determine precisely whose cargo they are jettisoning  .
Thus , to  avoid  quarrelling that could waste valuable time , there arose the  निष्पक्ष  practice  whereby  all  the  merchants whose cargo  उतरा  safely would be called on  to  contribute a portion ,  आधारित   upon  a share or percentage , to the merchant or merchants whose goods had been tossed overboard to avert imminent peril  .
जबकि  general average traces its origins in ancient maritime law , still it remains part of  the  admiralty law of most countries  .
The first codification of general average was the York Antwerp Rules of 1890 .
American companies accepted it in 1949  .
General average requires three elements which are clearly stated by Mr. Justice Grier in Barnard v. Adams:
``  1st .
A common  खतरे  : a danger in which vessel , cargo and crew all participate ; a danger imminent and apparently 'inevitable , ' except by voluntarily  रूष्ट  the loss  of   a  portion of the whole to save the remainder . ''
`` 2nd . There must be a voluntary  jettison  ,  jactus  , or casting away , of some portion of the joint concern  लिये  the purpose of avoiding this imminent peril , periculi  imminentis  evitandi causa , or , in other words ,  a  transfer  of  the peril from the whole to a particular portion of the whole . ''
`` 3rd .
This attempt to avoid  the  imminent common peril must be successful ''  .
Example Polish call for vaccination against Diphtheria and Tetanus .
A vaccination schedule is a series of vaccinations , including the timing  of  all doses , which may be either  अनुशंसित  or compulsory , depending on the country of residence .
A vaccine is an  antigenic  preparation used to produce  क्रियाशील  immunity to a disease  ,  in  अनुक्रम  to prevent or reduce  the  effects  of  infection by any natural or `` wild '' pathogen .
Many vaccines require multiple doses for maximum effectiveness , either  to  produce sufficient initial immune response or to boost response that fades  over  time .
For example , tetanus vaccine boosters are often recommended every 10 years .
टीका  schedules are developed by governmental agencies or physicians groups to achieve maximum effectiveness using required and recommended vaccines for a locality while minimizing the number  of  health care system interactions  .
Over the past two decades , the recommended vaccination schedule has grown rapidly and become more complicated as many new vaccines have been developed .
Some vaccines are recommended only in certain areas ( countries ,  subnational   क्षेत्रों  , or at-risk populations )  जहाँ  a disease is common  .
लिये  instance , yellow fever vaccination is on the routine vaccine schedule of French Guiana , is recommended in certain regions of Brazil but in  the  United States is  तभी   दिए   to  travelers heading to  देशों  with a history of the disease  .
In developing countries , vaccine recommendations  भी  take into account the level of health care access , the cost of vaccines and issues with vaccine availability and storage .
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by  the  World Health Organization  दिखाएँ  a developed country using a schedule  जिससे  extends over the first five years of a child  's  life and uses vaccines which cost over $ 700 including administration costs while a developing  देश  uses a schedule  providing  vaccines  in  the first 9 months of life and costing only $ 25 .
इस  difference is due to the lower cost of health care , the lower cost of many vaccines  provided  to developing nations , and that more expensive vaccines , often for less  आम   रोगों  , are  नहीं  utilized .
In 1900 , the smallpox vaccine was the only one administered to  children  .
By the early 1950s , children routinely received four  टीके  , for protection against ( diphtheria , pertussis  ,  tetanus , polio , and smallpox ) , and as  अनेक   as  five shots by  दो  years of age .
Since the mid-1980s , many vaccines have been added to the schedule .
,  the   us  Centers for  बीमारी  Control and Prevention  (  CDC ) now recommends vaccination  विरूद्ध  at least fourteen diseases .
By two years of age , U.S. children receive as many as 24 vaccine injections , and might receive up to five shots during one visit to the doctor .
The use  of  combination vaccine products means that , , the United Kingdom 's immunization  कार्यक्रम  consists of 10 injections by the age of two , rather  than  25 if vaccination for  प्रत्येक  disease was given as a separate injection .
Two revellers dance in the streets .
The form of dancing is called `` wining '' ( winding ) pronounced wine-ing
A Music Truck  entertains  the  भीड  on the streets .
Trucks are an integral part  of  the street parade , featuring live performances or deejays
the  Trinidad and Tobago Carnival is an annual event held on the  सोमवार   और  Tuesday before Ash Wednesday  ,  and is well known for participant 's colorful costumes and exuberant celebrations .
कार्निवल  in Trinidad and Tobago is the most significant event on the islands ' cultural and tourism calendar , with numerous cultural events  कार्यशील  in the lead up to the  गली  parade on Carnival Monday and Tuesday .
It is said that if the islanders are not celebrating it  ,  then they are preparing for it , while reminiscing  परिचय  the past year 's festival .
the  heart of the musical celebration has been calypso  ;  recently soca has replaced  कैलिप्सो  as the most celebrated type of music .
Costumes  ,  stickfighting  और  limbo competitions are also important components of the festival .
Carnival as it is celebrated in Trinidad and Tobago is also celebrated in  शहरों  worldwide .
These including Toronto 's Caribana , Miami 's Miami Carnival , Houston Carifest , London 's Notting Hill Carnival as well as New York  नगर  's Labor Day  कार्निवल  to name a few .
Carnival  थी  created when West African slaves mimicked their French  स्वामी  who where  ज्ञात  for their lavish costumes balls .
Forbidden to partake in these festivities and confined to their quarters , slaves combined elements from their own cultures to their master 's fete .
Hence the creation of characters such as  jab  Jab or Jab Molassie ( Devils ) , Midnight  लुटेरों  ,  imps  , Lagahroo  ,  Soucouyant , La Diablesse and Demons .
With the abolition of slavery in 1838 , freed Africans  took  their version of Carnival to the streets  through  expression of drums , riddim sections  जैसे  tamboo bamboo and as  प्रत्येक  new immigrant population  डाला  Trinidad , Carnival evolved into what we know today .
The  नगर  of  शिकागो  , Illinois held a nonpartisan mayoral election on Tuesday ,  फ़रवरी  22 , 2011 .
Incumbent Mayor  रिचर्ड  M. Daley  ,   a  member of the Democratic Party who had been in office since 1989 , did not seek a seventh term as mayor .
Candidates needed to collect 12,500 petition signatures by November 22 , 2010 to qualify for a  प्लेस  on the ballot .
April 5 , 2011 was scheduled to be  a  runoff election date if no candidate  प्राप्त   an  absolute majority .
Rahm  emanuel  won the race for mayor with more than  55  % of the vote .
He  थी  inaugurated on May 16 , 2011 .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' is a song by American indie  पॉप   बैंड  Foster the People .
it  was released as the  समूह  's  डेब्यू  single in September 2010  ,  and the following year was included on their EP Foster the People  और  their debut album Torches .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' became the group 's breakthrough hit and was one of the most popular  गीतों   of  2011 .
The song was written and recorded  by  frontman Mark Foster while he was working as a  वाणिज्यिक  jingle writer .
चिहृ  with the upbeat musical composition , the lyrics describe the homicidal thoughts of a troubled youth .
The track received considerable attention after it was posted online in 2010 as a free download  ,  and it helped  the  group garner a multi-album record deal with Columbia Records imprint Startime International .
`` Pumped Up Kicks ''  proved  to be a sleeper hit ;  in  2011 , after receiving significant airplay  on  modern rock stations , the song crossed-over onto contemporary hit radio stations .
The song spent eight consecutive weeks  at  number three on the  बिलबोर्ड  Hot  100  chart in the United States , making it the first Billboard Alternative Songs number-one single to crack the U.S. top 5 since Kings of Leon 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009 .
the  song was widely praised by critics , and it has been licensed for use in a wide range of popular  मीडिया  since its  रिलीज  .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' received a Grammy Award nomination for Best Pop Duo/Group  प्रदर्शन  .
The State Fair of West Virginia is an annual  राज्य  fair for West  वर्जिनिया  .
it  is held annually in mid-August on the State Fairgrounds in Fairlea , near Lewisburg , West Virginia in the southeastern part of the state .
The State Fairgrounds consists of a large open field for carnivals and exhibitions , a horse track , grandstands , and several exhibition buildings .
Free parking is provided adjacent to the fairgrounds  और   ,  until 2006 , free camping was  भी  available in a large field with running-water toilets and showers , but no hookups .
Campers are now charged a  छोटी  fee .
The  श्वेत  House , the president 's official residence and  बीच  of  the  administration
अंतर्गत  the United States Constitution , the President of the United  राज्य  is the head of state and head of government  of  the United States .
As  मुख्य  of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the presidency is the  उच्चतम  political office in the United States by influence and recognition .
The president is  भी  the commander-in-chief of  the  United States Armed Forces .
The  अध्यक्ष  is indirectly elected to a  four-year  term by an Electoral College ( or by the  हाउस  of Representatives should the Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority  of  votes to any person ) .
चूंकि   the   अनुसमर्थन  of the  twenty-second  Amendment to  the  United States Constitution in 1951 , no person may be elected President  अधिक  than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than  एकबार  .
Upon the death , resignation , or removal from office of an incumbent President , the  वाइस  President assumes  the  office .
The President  जरूर   be  at least 35 years of age and  a  `` natural born '' citizen of  the  United States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office  as  president following the ratification of the United States Constitution , which took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For American leaders before this ratification , see President of the Continental Congress .
The list does not include any Acting Presidents under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the  संयुक्त  States Constitution .
वहीँ  have been 43 people sworn  into  office , and 44 presidencies , as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted  क्रमबद्धता   as  both the  22nd   और  24th president .
Of the individuals elected  as  president , four died  in  office of natural causes (  विलियम  Henry  हैरिसन   ,  Zachary  टेलर  , Warren  G.  Harding , and Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A. Garfield , William McKinley , and  जॉन  F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George Washington , the first president , was inaugurated in 1789 after  a  unanimous vote of  the  Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in  1841   ,  and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years , but died shortly  into   उसके  fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president  to  serve more than  दो  terms , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after Harry Truman , was passed to limit the number of  टाइम्स  an individual can be elected president .
Andrew Jackson , the  सातवाँ  president , was the first to be elected by men  of  all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding  थी  the first elected after women gained  मतदान  rights in 1920 .
History records four presidents  –  John Q Adams , Rutherford B. Hayes , Benjamin Harrison  और  George W. Bush  –   जो   खोया  the popular vote but assumed  दफ्तर  .
John F. Kennedy has  महरूम  the only president of Roman  कैथोलिक  faith , and the current  अध्यक्ष  , Barack  ओबामा   ,  is the first president of African descent  .
`` Lombardi Trophy ''  redirects  here .
For the  पुरस्कार   awarded   annually  to the best college  फ़ुटबॉल  lineman or linebacker , see Lombardi Award .
The Vince  लोम्बार्डी   ट्रॉफी  is the trophy awarded each year to the winning team of the National Football League 's championship game , the Super Bowl .
The  ट्रॉफी  is named in honor of legendary NFL coach Vince  लोम्बार्डी  .
This is a list of tables of the  सत्यापित  oldest people in the world in ordinal rank , such as oldest person or oldest man .
In these tables , a supercentenarian is considered 'verified  '  if his or her claim has been  validated   by  an international body  कि  specifically deals in longevity research ,  ऐसे  as  the  Gerontology Research  समूह  ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
The longest unambiguously documented  इंसान  lifespan is that of Jeanne Calment of  फ़्रांस  ( 1875–1997 ) , who died at age 122 years , 164 days .
She met Vincent van Gogh when she was 12 or 13 .
इस  led to news media attention in 1985 , after  calment  turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age , beyond any reasonable question , in the records of her native city , Arles , France .
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; her case serves as  an  archetype in the methodology for  verifying  the  आयु  of the world 's oldest people .
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura , who currently  जीवनदान  in Japan and is age as of .
चूंकि  the death  of  115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States , on 17  दिसम्बर  2012  ,  Kimura , born 19  अप्रैल  1897  ,  is the oldest living person in the world whose age can be  प्रलेखित  .
He has also been  the  oldest living  man   चूंकि  the  मौत  of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011 .
Since the death of 115-year old  koto  Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013 , the oldest living woman has been -year-old  misao  Okawa , also  इससे  Japan , born on 5 March 1898 .
the  People 's Court is an American arbitration-based reality court show ,  फिलहाल  presided over  by  retired Florida State Circuit Court Judge Marilyn Milian  ,  in which small claims disputes are handled .
The People 's Court is the first  अदालत  show to use binding arbitration , introducing the format into the genre in  1981   .
The system has been duplicated by most of the show 's successors in  the  judicial genre .
Moreover  ,  The People 's Court is the first popular , long-running reality in the judicial genre .
It was  preceded  only by a few short-lived realities in the genre  ;   ये  short-lived predecessors were only loosely related to  न्यायिक  proceedings ,  मगर  for one : Parole ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life  courtrooms  holding legal proceedings .
Prior to The People 's Court , the vast majority of TV courtroom shows used actors , and recreated or fictional cases ( as did radio before that ) .
Among examples of  ये  types of court shows include Famous Jury Trials and Your Witness .
The  लोगों  's Court  रै  had two contrasting lives .
The  दिखाएँ  's first life was presided over solely by former Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Joseph Wapner .
His tenure lasted from  the  show 's debut on September 14 , 1981 , until May 21 , 1993 , when the  दिखाएँ  was cancelled  due  to low ratings .
इस  left the show with a total of 2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes and 12 seasons .
The show was taped in Los Angeles during its first life .
After being cancelled , reruns aired until September  9  , 1994 .
on  September 8 , 1997 , after being out of production for four years , The People 's Court was revived for a second life in first-run syndication as a 60-minute program  .
पूर्व  lawyer and Mayor of New York Ed Koch was chosen as arbiter , which he maintained for 2 seasons from the 1997–98  ऋतु  through the 1998–99 season ( the present life 's 2nd season and overall show 's 14th ) .
By the 1999–00 season , husband of Judith Sheindlin ( who presides over Judge  जुडी  ) and former New York State Supreme Court Judge Jerry Sheindlin succeeded Koch .
Sheindlin lasted one and a half seasons as he was replaced towards the end of the 2000–01  ऋतु  ( present life 's 4th season and overall show 's  17th  ) .
Beginning in spring 2001  ,  Florida judge Marilyn Milian took over The  लोगों  's Court and has presided over the show ever  चूंकि  .
Once Milian  completes  the 2012–13 season , she will have served as  longest  arbiter over the series with 12 and a half seasons .
As of the present  ,  however , her years on the program  टाई  Wapner at 12 seasons .
In the 2009-10 television season , The  लोगों  's Courts 2nd/present life outlasted its first when it reached 13 seasons .
While the show taped in  नई  York City for the first 15  सीज़न  of its second life ,  it  now tapes in Stamford  ,  Connecticut as of the 2012-13 season .
On September 3 , 2012 ,  the  People 's Court 's 2nd/present life entered its 16th season ( 28th overall season ) .
With  28  total  सीज़न  , The People 's Court ranks as the 2nd longest-running  courtroom  program behind the ongoing Divorce Court at 33  सीज़न   (  from its 3 combined lives ) .
Utah ( or ) ( Arapaho : Wo'tééneihí ' ) is a state in the Western United States .
It became the 45th state admitted to the Union on January 4 , 1896 .
Utah is the 13th-largest  ,  the 34th-most populous , and  the  10th-least-densely populated  of  the 50 United States .
Approximately 80 %  of  Utah 's 2,817,222 people live along the Wasatch Front , centering on Salt Lake City , leaving vast expanses of the state nearly uninhabited and making the population the sixth most urbanized  in  the U.S.  यूटा  is bordered  by  Colorado  on  the east , Wyoming on the northeast , Idaho on the north , Arizona on the south , and Nevada  on  the west .
it  also  छू  a corner of New Mexico on the southeast .
Utah is  the  most religiously homogeneous state in the Union  .
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of  latter-day  Saints or LDS (  mormons  ) , which greatly influences Utah culture and daily  जीवन  .
The  संसार   मुख्यालय  of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ) is located in Utah 's state capital .
The state is a center of transportation , education  ,  information technology and research , government services , mining , and a major tourist destination for outdoor recreation .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau 's population estimates , Utah is the fifth fastest-growing  राज्य  in the United States as of 2012 .
St.  जार्ज  , was the fastest–growing metropolitan area in the United States  इससे  2000 to 2005 .
A 2012 Gallup national survey found Utah overall to be the `` best  राज्य  to live in '' based on 13 forward-looking measurements including various economic , lifestyle ,  और  health-related outlook metrics .
Coldwater is a small town in  टेट  County , Mississippi .
It is in the Memphis Metropolitan Area  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 1,674 at the 2000 census .
The hard palate  is  a thin horizontal bony plate  of  the skull  ,  located in the roof of the mouth .
it  spans the arch formed by the upper teeth .
It is formed by the palatine process of the maxilla and  आड़ा  plate of palatine bone .
It forms a partition between the nasal passages  और  the mouth .
Also on the anterior  portion  of the roof of the hard palate is the Rugae which are the irregular ridges in the mucous membrane that help facilitate the movement of food backwards towards the pharynx .
This partition is continued deeper into the  मुँह   by  a fleshy extension called the soft palate  .
Complete set of scrolls  ,  constituting the entire Tanakh  .
The Tanakh ( , or ; also Tenakh , Tenak , Tanach ) is a name used  in  Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible .
The Tanakh  is  also known as the Masoretic Text or the Miqra  .
The name  is  an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters  of   the  Masoretic Text  's  three  परंपरागत  subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching  ''  , also known  as   the  Five Books of Moses  )   ,  Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh  .
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ) , meaning `` that which is read '' , is an  वैकल्पिक  Hebrew term  लिये  the Tanakh  .
The books of  the  Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral tradition passed on  by  each generation , called the Oral Torah  .
Sobriety checkpoint in Germany
Driving  अंतर्गत  the influence ( DUI ) , driving while intoxicated ( DWI ) , drunken driving , drunk driving , drink driving , operating under the influence , drinking and driving , or impaired driving is the crime  of  driving a motor vehicle with blood  स्तर  of alcohol in excess of a legal limit ( `` Blood Alcohol Content '' , or `` BAC  ''  ) .
Similar regulations  कवर  driving or operating certain types of machinery while affected by drinking alcohol or taking other drugs , including , but not limited to  नुस्खा  drugs .
This is a criminal offense in most nations .
Convictions do not necessarily involve actual driving of the vehicle  .
In most jurisdictions a measurement such as a  रक्त  alcohol content ( BAC ) in excess of a specific threshold level , such as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the  ठोकर  , with no need to prove impairment or being under the  influence  of alcohol .
In some jurisdictions  ,  there is an aggravated category of the  ठोकर  at a higher level e.g . 0.12 % .
In most countries , anyone who  is  convicted of injuring or  हत्या   किसी  while under the influence of alcohol or  दवाएँ  can be heavily fined , as in France , in  जोड  to being given  a  lengthy  थाना  sentence .
Some jobs have  उनके  own rules  और  BAC limits , for example commercial  पायलट   ,  and the Federal Railroad Administration in the United States has a 0.04 % limit for  ट्रैन   क्रू  .
Some jurisdictions have multiple levels of BAC ; for example , the state of California has a 0.08 % BAC limit , which is lowered to 0.04 % if the operator holds a commercial driver 's license .
The California BAC limit is 0.01 % for those  younger  than 21 years of age and those on probation for  a  previous DUI  conviction  .
Some  विशाल  corporations have their  अपना  rules ; Union Pacific Railroad has their own BAC limit of 0.02 % that , if violated during a random test  or  a for-cause test — for example  ,  after a  ट्रैफ़िक  accident  —   can  result in termination of employment with no chance of future re-hire .
अनेक  states in  the  U.S. and provinces in Canada have adopted truth  in  sentencing laws  कि  enforce  सख्त  guidelines on sentencing , differing from previous practice where prison time was reduced  or   निलंबित  after sentencing had been issued .
Some jurisdictions have judicial guidelines requiring a mandatory minimum sentence .
Penalties for  dui  charges range from  महंगी  fees to forfetiruree of your license plates  और  in some serious  हालातों  , your vehicle .
A drunk driving  सिम्युलेटर  in Montréal , Canada
The specific criminal offense may be called  ,  depending on the jurisdiction , driving under the influence [ of  दारू  or other drugs  ]  ( DUI ) , driving under  तीव्र  influence ( DUII ) , driving while intoxicated ( DWI ) ,  ऑपरेटिंग  under the influence (  oui  ) operating while intoxicated ( OWI ) ,  ऑपरेटिंग  a motor vehicle while  intoxicated  ( OMVI ) , driving  अंतर्गत  the combined influence of alcohol and/or other drugs , driving under the influence per se or drunk in charge [ of a vehicle ]  .
Many such laws apply also to motorcycling , boating , piloting aircraft , use of  motile  farm equipment  ऐसे  as tractors and combines , riding horses or driving a horse-drawn vehicle ,  or  bicycling , possibly  साथ  different BAC level than driving .
In some jurisdictions there are separate charges depending on the vehicle used , such as BWI ( bicycling while intoxicated ) , which may carry a lighter sentence .
In  the  United States , local  विधि  enforcement agencies made 1,467,300 arrests nationwide for driving under the influence of  दारू  in 1996 , compared to 1.9 million  ऐसे  arrests during  the  peak  साल  in 1983 .
In 1997 an estimated 513,200 DWI offenders were in  थाना   or  jail , down from 593,000 in 1990 and up from  270,100  in 1986 .
Officers from US Customs and Border Protection boarding a ship
Law enforcement in the  संयुक्त  States is one of three major components of the criminal justice system  of  the United States , along with courts and corrections .
Although there exists an inherent interrelatedness between  the  different  समूह  that make up the criminal justice system based on their crime deterrence purpose , each component operates independently from  एक  another .
However , the judiciary is vested with the power to make legal determinations regarding the conduct  of  the  अन्य  two components .
Apart from maintaining order and service functions , the  purpose  of policing is the investigation of suspected criminal activity  और  the referral of the results of investigations and of suspected criminals to the courts .
Law  प्रवर्तन  , to varying degrees at different levels of government and in different agencies  ,  is also commonly charged with the  जिम्मेदारियों  of deterring criminal activity and of preventing the successful commission of crimes in progress ; the  सेवा   और  enforcement of warrants , writs and other orders of the courts .
Law enforcement agencies are also involved in providing first response to emergencies and other  खतरे  to public safety ; the protection of certain public facilities and infrastructure  ;  the  मेंटेनेंस  of public order ; the protection of  पब्लिक  officials ; and the operation of some correctional facilities ( usually at the local level ) .
Elmer Figueroa Arce ( born June  28  , 1968 ) , best known under the stage name Chayanne ,  is  a Puerto Rican Latin pop singer and actor .
As a solo  कलाकार  , Chayanne has released  21  solo albums and sold over 15 million albums worldwide .
`` World  युद्ध  Hulk '' is a comic book crossover storyline  कि  ran through a self titled limited  श्रेणी  and various other titles published by Marvel Comics in 2007  ,  featuring the Hulk .
The series consists  of  five main issues  titled  World War Hulk , with Greg Pak as writer and John Romita , Jr. as penciller  ,  and three other limited series : World War Hulk : Front  लकीर  , World War Hulk :  गामा  Corps , and  संसार  War Hulk : X-Men .
It also ran through several  अन्य  Marvel comics series .
The  प्लाट  is the culmination of a series of events that began with the Hulk being tricked into space by the  illuminati  and a life model decoy of Nick Fury , the  हल्क   's  subsequent exile seen in Planet Hulk and his imminent return to Earth to seek revenge on the Illuminati .
Marion Mitchell Morrison ( born Marion Robert Morrison ; May 26 , 1907 – June 11 , 1979 ) , better known by his stage name John Wayne , was an American film actor , director  और  producer .
An Academy Award -winner , Wayne was among the top box office draws for three decades , and was named the all-time top money-making star .
An enduring American icon , he epitomized rugged masculinity and  is  famous for his demeanor , including his distinctive  शांत  voice , walk , and height .
Wayne was born in Winterset , Iowa but his family relocated to the greater Los Angeles area  जब  he was four years old .
He found work at local film studios when he lost his football scholarship to USC  as  a result of a bodysurfing accident .
Initially working for the Fox Film Corporation ,  he  mostly appeared in small bit parts .
His first leading role came in the widescreen epic The Big Trail ( 1930 ) , which led to leading  भूमिकाएँ  in numerous films throughout the  1930s  , many of them in the western genre .
His career  रोज़  to  further  heights in  1939  , with John Ford 's  stagecoach  making him  an  instant superstar .
Wayne would go on to star in 142 pictures , primarily typecast  in  Western films  .
Among his best known later films are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ) , which follows him as an Irish-American boxer and his love affair with a fiery spinster  निभाई  by Maureen O'Hara ; The Searchers (  1956  ) , in which he  plays  a Civil War veteran who seeks out his abducted niece ; Rio Bravo ( 1959 ) , playing a Sheriff with Dean Martin ; True Grit ( 1969 ) , playing a humorous U.S .  मार्शल  who sets out to avenge a man 's death  in  the role that won Wayne an Academy Award ; and The Shootist ( 1976 ) , his final  स्क्रीन  performance in which  he  plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer .
Wayne moved to  नारंगी  County , California in the 1960s , and was a prominent Republican in Hollywood ,  supporting   anti-communist  positions .
he  died of stomach cancer  in  1979 .
In June 1999 , the American Film Institute named Wayne 13th among the Greatest Male Screen Legends of All Time .
Galileo Galilei ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 January 1642 ) , was an Italian physicist , mathematician ,  astronomer  , and philosopher who played a major role in the Scientific  क्रान्ति  .
His achievements  शामिल  improvements to the telescope and consequent astronomical observations and support for Copernicanism .
Galileo has been called the `` father of modern observational  खगोलशास्त्र  `` , the `` father of modern physics `` , the `` father of science '' , and `` the Father of Modern Science '' .
His contributions to observational astronomy include the telescopic confirmation of the phases of Venus , the discovery of the four  largest  satellites of Jupiter ( named the Galilean moons in his honour  )  , and the observation and analysis of sunspots .
Galileo also worked in applied science and technology , inventing an improved military compass and other  यंत्र  .
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was controversial  भीतर  his lifetime , when most subscribed to either geocentrism or  the  Tychonic system .
He met  साथ  opposition from astronomers ,  जो   doubted  heliocentrism due to the absence of an observed  तारकीय  parallax .
The matter was investigated by the Roman Inquisition in 1615 , and they concluded that it could be supported as  तभी  a possibility , not an established fact .
Galileo later defended his views  in  Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems , which appeared to attack Pope Urban VIII and thus alienated him and the Jesuits , who had both supported Galileo up until this point .
He was tried by the Inquisition , found `` vehemently suspect of heresy '' , forced to recant  ,  and spent the rest of  उसके  life  अंतर्गत  house arrest .
It was while Galileo was under house arrest that he wrote  एक  of his finest works , Two New Sciences , in which he summarised the work he had done some forty years earlier , on the two  sciences  now called kinematics and strength of materials .
55 '' LG OLED TV showcased at CES 2012
Prototype OLED lighting panel developed by  lumiotec
Demonstration of a flexible OLED device
An OLED ( organic light-emitting diode ) is a light-emitting diode  (  LED ) in which the emissive electroluminescent  परत  is a film of organic compound which emits light in response to an electric current .
इस  layer of organic semiconductor is situated between two electrodes .
Generally , at  तनिक  one of these electrodes is transparent  .
OLEDs are used to create  डिजिटल  displays in devices such as television screens , computer monitors , portable systems such as  मोबाईल  phones , handheld games consoles and PDAs .
A major area of research  is  the development of white OLED devices for use in solid-state lighting applications .
There are two main families of  oleds  : those based  on  small  अणुओं  and those employing polymers .
Adding  मोबाईल  ions to an OLED creates a light-emitting  electrochemical  cell or LEC , which has a slightly different mode of  आपरेशन  .
OLED displays can use either passive-matrix  (  PMOLED ) or active-matrix addressing schemes .
Active-matrix OLEDs ( AMOLED ) require a thin-film transistor  backplane  to  स्विच  each individual pixel  on   or  off , but allow for higher resolution and larger display sizes .
An OLED display works without a backlight .
Thus , it can display deep black levels  और  can be thinner and lighter than  a   द्रव  crystal display ( LCD  )  .
In low ambient light conditions such as a dark room an OLED  स्क्रीन  can achieve a higher contrast  अनुपात  than an LCD , whether the  एलसीडी  uses cold cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight .
A carton and a glass of eggnog from Montreal , Canada , showing its French facade ( English reverse ) and the French term lait de poule ( literally , `` hen 's milk ''  )
Eggnog , or egg nog , is a sweetened dairy -based beverage traditionally made with milk and/or cream , sugar  ,  and whipped  अंडे  (  जिससे  gives it a frothy texture )  .
Brandy  ,  rum  ,  whisky , bourbon ,  वोदका  , or a combination of  liquors  are often added  .
The finished  सेवारत  is often garnished with  a  sprinkling of ground cinnamon or nutmeg .
It was also known as the egg milk  पंच  .
Eggnog is  a  popular drink throughout the  संयुक्त  States and Canada  ,  and  is  usually  संबद्ध  with Christmas .
Eggnog may  be  added as a flavoring to food or drinks such as coffee and  चाय  .
Eggnog as a custard can also be used as an ice cream base .
A pasty ( , ) , ( sometimes  ज्ञात  in Britain as a Cornish pasty , and in the United  राज्य  as a pastie or  अंग्रेजों  pasty )  is  a baked pastry , a traditional variety of which is particularly associated with  कॉर्नवॉल  , the  westernmost  county in England .
It is made by placing uncooked filling typically of meat and vegetables , without meat in vegetarian versions , on a flat pastry circle and folding it to wrap the filling ,  crimping  the edge to  रूप  a seal .
After baking , the result  is  a raised semicircular comestible .
The traditional Cornish pasty , which has Protected Geographical  indication  ( PGI ) status in  यूरोपीय  , is  भर  with beef , sliced or diced potato , swede ( also known as a yellow turnip or rutabaga – referred to in  कॉर्नवॉल  as turnip ) and onion , seasoned with salt  और  pepper , and is baked .
Today , the  pasty  is the food most associated with Cornwall , it is  regarded  as the national dish , and it  खाते   लिये  6 % of  the  Cornish food economy .
Pasties with many  अलग  fillings are made  ;  some shops specialise in selling  सब  sorts of pasties .
The origins of the pasty  हैं  unclear , though there are many references to them throughout historical documents and fiction .
The pasty  is  now popular world-wide due to the  स्प्रेड  of Cornish miners , and variations can be found in Australia , the United States , Mexico and elsewhere  .
The ( ortho- ) sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) is one of three major parts of the autonomic nervous system : the  अन्य  being the enteric and parasympathetic systems .
Its  सामान्य  action is to mobilize the body 's nervous system  fight-or-flight  response .
It is , however , constantly active at a basic level to maintain homeostasis .
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable devices , such as mobile phones , digital cameras , GPS navigation devices  ,   और  tablet  कंप्यूटर  .
The Secure Digital standard is maintained by the SD Card  संघ  ( SDA ) .
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across dozens of  उत्पाद  categories and more than 8,000 models .
The Secure Digital format includes four card families available in three different form factors .
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity  (  SDSC ) , the High-Capacity ( SDHC ) , the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ) , and the SDIO , which combines input/output functions with data storage .
The three form factors are the original  आकार  , the `` mini ''  आकार  , and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ) .
वहीँ  are  अनेक  combinations of  रूप  factors and device families .
Electrically passive adapters allow the use  of  a smaller  कार्ड  in a host device built  to  hold a larger card .
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards , but this article explains several factors that can  prevent  the use of a newer  sd  card:
A  नए  card may offer greater capacity than the host device can handle .
A newer card may use a file system the host device can not navigate .
Use of an SDIO card  requires  the host  यंत्र  be  designed  for the input/output functions the card provides .
The organization of the card was changed starting with the SDHC family .
Some vendors produced SDSC cards  ऊपर  1 GB before the SDA had standardized a  विधि  of doing  so  .
the  SDA  उपयोग  several trademarked logos to enforce compliance with  इसके  specifications and assure users of compatibility .
The following is  a  List of critics of the New Deal .
Daniel Lawrence Whitney ( born February 17 , 1963 ) best known by his stage name and character Larry the Cable Guy , is an American stand-up comedian , actor , country music artist , voice actor , and former radio personality  .
He was one of  the  members of the Blue Collar Comedy Tour , a comedy troupe which included Bill Engvall  ,  Ron  श्वेत  , and Jeff Foxworthy (  साथ  whom he has starred on Blue Collar TV ) .
Whitney has released seven comedy albums , of which  तीन  have been certified gold by the RIAA for shipments of  500,000  copies .
In addition , he  रै  starred in three Blue Collar Comedy Tour-related  फिल्मों  ,  as  well as in the films Larry the Cable Guy : Health Inspector , Delta Farce , and Witless Protection , as well as  voicing  Mater in the Cars franchise .
Whitney 's catchphrase  :  `` Git-R-Done ! '' is also the  शीर्षक  of his book .
On January 26 , 2010 , the TV channel History announced that  it  was ordering a series starring Whitney called Only in America with Larry the Cable Guy , in  जिससे  he would explore the country and immerse himself in different lifestyles ,  कार्य  , and  शौक  .
The first episode of the series aired on February 8 , 2011 .
विटामिन  D  is  a group of  fat-soluble  secosteroids responsible  लिये  intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate .
In humans , the most important related compounds of vitamin D are  विटामिन  D2 and vitamin D3 .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin  d3  ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) are unique as they constitute what we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements .
The body can also  synthesize  vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) when sun exposure  is  adequate ( hence its nickname , the `` sunshine vitamin '' ) .
Although  विटामिन  D is  commonly  called a vitamin , it is not actually an essential  dietary  vitamin in the strict sense , as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight .
(  Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D efficiently and must receive  it  in their diet . )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism ,  और  must be obtained from their diet .
However , as with other compounds commonly called vitamins , vitamin D was discovered in an effort to find  the   dietary  substance that was lacking in a disease , namely , rickets , the childhood form of  osteomalacia  .
Additionally , like other compounds called vitamins , in the developed world vitamin D is added to staple foods , such as milk , to avoid  बीमारी  due to deficiency .
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous  संश्लेषण  from exposure to sunlight as well as intake from the diet , and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally  to  the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The  प्रमाण   indicates  that the  संश्लेषण  of vitamin D from sun exposure works in  a  feedback loop that prevents toxicity but  ,  because of uncertainty  परिचय  the cancer risk from sunlight ,  no  recommendations are issued  by  the Institute of Medicine , USA , for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements .
Accordingly ,  the  Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D assume that  no  synthesis occurs and that  सब   of  a  व्यक्ति  's vitamin D is from their diet  ,  although that will rarely occur  in  practice .
In the  जिगर  vitamin D is converted  to  calcidiol  ,  which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin  d—abbreviated  25 ( OH ) D ; and  जिससे  is the specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status .
Part of the calcidiol is  परिवर्तित  by  the  kidneys to calcitriol  ,  the biologically active form of  विटामिन  D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood  ,  regulating  the  concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted to  calcitriol  outside of the  गुर्दे  for other purposes , such as the proliferation , differentiation  और  apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also  affects  neuromuscular function and inflammation .
Beyond its use to  prevent  osteomalacia or rickets ,  the  evidence for other health effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent .
The best evidence of benefit is for bone health and a decrease in mortality in elderly women .
Standard form of the periodic table .
The colors  represent  different categories of elements explained below .
The periodic  तालिका  is a  table  display of the chemical elements ,  व्यवस्थित  on the basis of their atomic numbers , electron configurations , and recurring chemical properties .
Elements are presented  in  order of increasing atomic number (  क्रमांक  of protons ) .
the  standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main body of  तत्व  , positioned above a smaller  दोगुना  row of elements .
The table can also be deconstructed into  चार   आयताकार  blocks : the s-block to the left , the p-block to  the   सही  , the d-block in the middle , and the f-block below that .
The rows of the table are called  अवधि  ; the  कालम  of the s- , d- , and  p-blocks  are called groups ,  साथ  some of these having names such as the  हैलोजन्स   or  the  प्रतिष्ठित  gases .
Since  ,  by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can  be  used to derive relationships between the properties of  the  elements and predict the properties of  नई  , yet to be discovered or  synthesized   ,  elements .
As a result , a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides  a  useful  फ्रेमवर्क  for analyzing chemical behavior , and such tables are widely used in chemistry and  अन्य   sciences  .
Although precursors exist , Dmitri Mendeleev is generally  credited   साथ  the publication  ,   in  1869 , of the first widely recognized periodic table .
He developed his table to illustrate periodic trends in the properties of the then-known elements .
Mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown elements that would be expected to fill gaps in this table .
Most of his predictions were proved correct when  the  elements in question  यहूद   subsequently  discovered .
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined  साथ  the discovery or synthesis of  further  new elements and the development of new theoretical models to explain  रासायनिक  behavior .
All elements from atomic numbers 1 (  हाइड्रोजन  ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized .
The elements from  1  to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally , although some are found only in trace amounts and were initially discovered by  संश्लेषण  in laboratories .
The elements after 98 have only been synthesized in laboratories .
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued , with the question of how the periodic table may need to be modified to accommodate any such additions  होने  a matter  of   जारी  debate .
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally occurring elements have also been produced in laboratories .
Minimum wage by U.S. state and U.S. territory ( American Samoa , Guam , Puerto Rico  ,  Virgin Islands ) ,  as  of Jan. 1 ,  2013  .
In the United States , workers are generally entitled to be paid no less than the statutory minimum wage .
The  संघीय  government mandates a nationwide minimum wage level of $ 7.25 per hour ,  जबकि  some states and municipalities have set minimum wage levels higher than the federal  स्तर  , with the highest state minimum wage being $ 9.19 per hour in Washington as of 2013 .
Among those paid by the hour in 2012 , 1.6  लाख   यहूद  reported as earning exactly  the  prevailing federal minimum wage  .
About 2.0  लाख  were reported as earning wages below  the  minimum .
Together , these 3.6 million workers with wages at or below the minimum made up 4.7 percent of all hourly-paid workers .
A selection of Bourbons  और  Tennessee  whiskeys  offered  at  a liquor store  in  Decatur , Georgia
Evan Williams bourbon whiskey
bourbon  whiskey is a type of American whiskey – a barrel-aged distilled spirit made  primarily  from corn .
the   नाम   of  the spirit derives from its  ऐतिहासिक  association  साथ  an area known as Old Bourbon , around what is now Bourbon County , Kentucky  (  which , in turn , was  नामित  after the French House of  bourbon  royal family ) .
It has been produced since the 18th century .
While it may be made anywhere in the United States , it is strongly associated with the American South  in  general , and Kentucky in particular .
The  mona  Lisa ( La  gioconda  or La  joconde  ) is a half-length portrait of a woman by the Italian  कलाकार  Leonardo da Vinci , which has been acclaimed as `` the best known , the most visited , the most written about  ,  the  सबसे  sung about , the most parodied work  of  art in the world .  ''
The painting , thought  to  be a portrait of Lisa Gherardini , the  बीवी  of Francesco del  giocondo  , is in oil on a poplar  फलक  , and is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506 .
It was acquired by King Francis I of France and is now the  प्रॉपर्टी  of the  फ्रेंच   गणतंत्र  , on permanent display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris since 1797 .
The ambiguity of the subject  's  expression  ,  which is frequently described as enigmatic  ,  the monumentality of the composition , the subtle modeling of  फ़ॉर्म  and the atmospheric  illusionism  were novel qualities that have contributed to  the  continuing fascination and study of the work .
Robert  एलन  Palmer ( 19 January 1949 – 26 September 2003 ) , was an English singer-songwriter and musician .
He was known for his  distinctive  voice and the eclectic mix  of  musical  शैलियाँ  on his albums ,  combining  soul  ,  jazz , rock , pop  ,  reggae and blues  .
He found success both in his solo career and in the  musical  act The Power Station , and  था  Top 10 songs in both the UK and the US .
His iconic music videos by Terence  डोनोवन  for the hits `` Addicted to Love `` and  ``  Simply Irresistible ``  प्रदर्शित  identically dressed dancing women with  पाले  faces , dark eye makeup and bright  रेड  lipstick ,  जिससे  resembled the  महिलाओं  in the art of Patrick Nagel , an artist popular in the 1980s .
Sharp-suited , his involvement in the music industry commenced in  the   1960s  , covered  पाँच  decades and included a spell with Vinegar Joe .
Palmer received a number of awards throughout his career , including two Grammy Awards for Best Male Rock  गायन  Performance , an MTV Video Music Award , and was  twice  nominated for the Brit Award  लिये  Best British Male .
Computed tomography angiography ( CTA )  is  a computed tomography technique used to visualize arterial and  venous  vessels throughout the body .
इस   सीमाएँ  from arteries serving the brain to those bringing blood to the lungs , kidneys , arms and legs  .
The Champs-Élysées decorated with flags for Bastille  दिन
Horseman of  the  French Republican Guard during the 2007 military  परेड   on  the Champs-Élysées .
Prise de la Bastille by Jean-Pierre-Louis-Laurent Houel
Bastille Day is the name given  in  English-speaking countries to the French National Day , which is  मनाये  on the 14th of July each year .
In France  ,   it  is formally  पुकारा  La Fête  nationale  ( ; The National Celebration ) and commonly Le quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of July ) .
It  commemorates  the 1790 Fête de la Fédération , held on the first anniversary of the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789 ; the anniversary of the storming of the Bastille fortress-prison was seen as a symbol of the uprising of the modern nation , and of the reconciliation  of  all  the  French inside the constitutional monarchy  जिससे  preceded the First Republic , during the  फ्रेंच  Revolution .
Festivities and official ceremonies are held all over France .
The oldest and largest regular military parade in Europe is held on the morning of 14 July , on the Champs-Élysées avenue in  पेरिस  in front of the President of the Republic , French officials and foreign  अतिथि  .
The United States of America ( USA or U.S.A. ) , commonly  पुकारा   the  United States  (   us  or U.S.  )  or America , is a federal republic consisting of fifty states  और  a federal district .
The lower forty-eight contiguous states  और  the federal district  of  Washington , D.C. are in central North America between Canada and Mexico .
The state of Alaska is west of Canada and east of Russia across the Bering Strait , and  the  state of Hawaii is in the mid-North  प्रशांत  .
The  देश   भी  has five populated and nine  unpopulated  territories in the Pacific and the  caribbean  .
at  3.79 million square miles ( 9.83 million km2 ) and with around 315 million people  ,  the United States is  the  third- or fourth-largest country by total  क्षेत्रफल  and the third-largest  by  both land area and population  .
It is one of the world 's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations , the product of large-scale immigration from many countries .
The geography and climate of the U.S. is also extremely diverse  ,   साथ  deserts  ,  plains , forests , and mountains that are home to a wide variety of species .
Paleoindians migrated from Asia to what is now the United  राज्य   मेनलैंड  around 15,000 years ago  .
After 1500 , Old World diseases introduced by Europeans  greatly  reduced their populations .
European colonization began around 1600 and came mostly from England .
The United States emerged from  तेरह  British colonies located along  the  Atlantic seaboard .
Disputes between Great  ब्रिटेन  and the American colonies led to the  अमरीकी  Revolution  .
On July 4 , 1776 , delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously issued the Declaration of Independence , which established the United States of America .
The American Revolutionary War ,  जिससे  ended with the recognition of independence of the United States from the Kingdom of Great  ब्रिटेन  , was the first successful war of independence against a European colonial empire .
The current Constitution  थी  adopted on September 17 ,  1787  ; twenty-seven Amendments have since been added to the Constitution .
the  first ten amendments , collectively named the Bill of Rights , were ratified in 1791 and guarantee many  आधारभूत  civil rights and freedoms .
Driven by the doctrine of manifest destiny ,  the   संयुक्त  States embarked  on  a vigorous expansion across North America throughout the  19th  century .
This involved displacing native tribes , acquiring new territories ,  और  gradually admitting new states .
The  अमरीकी  Civil War ended legalized slavery in the United States .
by  the end of the nineteenth century ,  the  United  राज्य  extended into the  प्रशांत  Ocean , and its economy was the world 's largest .
The Spanish–American War  और  confirmed  the  country 's status as  a   वैश्विक  military  शक्ति  .
The  संयुक्त  States emerged from as a global superpower ,  the  first country with nuclear weapons , and a permanent member of the United Nations  सुरक्षा  Council .
The end of the Cold War and the dissolution of the Soviet Union left the United States as the sole superpower .
The United States is a developed country and has the world 's largest national economy ,  साथ  an estimated 2012 GDP of $ 15.6 trillion 19 % of global GDP  at  purchasing-power parity  ,  as of  2011   .
The  प्रति   capita   जीडीपी  of the  u.S.  was the  संसार  's sixth-highest  as  of 2010  ,  although America 's  माल  inequality was also ranked highest among OECD countries by the World Bank .
The economy is fueled by an abundance of natural resources  ,  a well-developed infrastructure , and  ऊँची  productivity ; and while its economy is considered post-industrial it continues  to  be one of the world 's largest  निर्माताओं  .
The  देश  accounts for 39  %  of global military spending  ,   और  is  a  leading economic ,  राजनैतिक  , and cultural force in  the  world , as well as  a   नेता  in scientific research and technological innovation .
The NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championship is a single-elimination tournament  निभाई  each spring in the  संयुक्त  States , currently featuring 68 college basketball teams ,  to   determine  the  नेशनल  championship of the major college basketball teams .
the  tournament , organized  by   the   नेशनल  Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA )  ,  was created during 1939 by the National Association of Basketball Coaches , and was the idea of Ohio State University coach Harold Olsen .
Played mostly during March  ,  it is known informally as March Madness or the Big  नृत्य   ,  and has become one of the most famous  सालाना  sporting events  in  the United States .
The NCAA has credited  bob  Walsh of the Seattle Organizing Committee for starting the March Madness celebration during 1984 .
The tournament teams include champions from 31 Division  i  conferences ( which receive automatic bids ) , and 37 teams which are awarded at-large berths .
These `` at-large  ''  teams are chosen by an NCAA selection committee , as detailed below .
The 64 teams are divided into four regions and organized into a  सिंगल  elimination ``  कोष्ठक  '' , which predetermines , when a team wins a game , which team it will face next .
Each team  is  `` seeded  ''  , or ranked , within its region .
After an initial four games between eight lower-ranked teams , the  टूर्नामेंट  occurs during the course of three weekends , at pre-selected neutral sites around the United States .
Lower-ranked teams are placed in the bracket against higher ranked teams .
Each weekend eliminates  three-fourths  of the teams , from a round  of  64 , to a `` Sweet Sixteen '' , and for the  पिछला  weekend of  the  Tournament a Final  चार  ; the Final Four is usually played during the first weekend of April .
These  चार  teams , one from each region , then compete in  एक  location  लिये  the  नेशनल  championship .
The tournament has been at least partially televised since 1969  .
Presently , the  खेल  are reported by CBS ,  tbs  , TNT , and  trutv  by the trade-name NCAA March Madness .
चूंकि  2011  ,  all games are available for  देखने  nationwide .
As television coverage has grown , so too has the tournament 's popularity .
Presently , millions of Americans `` fill out  a  bracket '' , predicting winners of all 67 games .
With 11 national titles  ,  UCLA has the record for the most NCAA  मेन  's Division I Basketball Championships ; John Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles .
The University of Kentucky is second  ,  with 8 national titles , while Indiana University and the University  of  North Carolina are  tied  for third with 5 national titles .
Duke University ranks fifth with 4 national titles .
a  sample of synthetic motor oil
Synthetic oil is a lubricant consisting of chemical compounds that  हैं  artificially made ( synthesized ) .
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically modified petroleum components rather than whole crude oil , but can also be synthesized  इससे  other  कच्चा  materials .
Synthetic oil is used  as  a substitute for  स्नेहक  refined from petroleum when operating  in  extremes of  तापमान  , because ,  in   सामान्य  , it  provides  superior mechanical and chemical  गुण  than those  मिला  in traditional mineral oils .
वायुयान  jet engines  ,  for example , require the use of synthetic oils ,  whereas  aircraft piston engines do not .
Jackass is an  अमरीकी  reality series , originally shown  on  MTV from 2000 to 2002 , featuring people performing various dangerous , crude self-injuring stunts  और  pranks .
The show served as a launchpad for the television and acting  करियर  of Bam Margera , Steve-O  ,  and also Johnny Knoxville , who previously  था  only a few minor acting roles .
Since 2002 , three Jackass films have been produced and released by MTV corporate sibling Paramount Pictures , continuing the franchise after its  चलाएं  on television .
The show sparked several spin-offs including Viva  la  Bam , Wildboyz , Homewrecker , Dr. Steve-O and Blastazoid .
the  show placed # 68 on Entertainment Weekly `` New TV Classics '' list .
Roseanne Cherrie Barr ( born November 3 , 1952 ) is an American actress , comedienne  ,  writer , television producer , director  ,  and  2012  presidential nominee of the California -based Peace and Freedom Party .
barr  began her career in stand-up comedy  at  clubs before gaining fame for  उसके  role in the  sitcom  Roseanne .
The show  थी  a hit and lasted  नौ   सीज़न  , from 1988 to 1997 .
She won both an Emmy and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress  लिये  her work on the show .
Barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class  घरेलू  goddess '' persona in the eight years preceding her sitcom and wanted to do a  यथार्थवादी  show about a strong mother who was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism .
The granddaughter of immigrants from Europe and Russia , Barr was the oldest of four children in a working-class Jewish Salt Lake  नगर  family ; she was also active in the LDS Church .
In  1974  ,  वो  married Bill Pentland , with whom she had three children , before divorcing in  1990  and marrying  हास्य  Tom Arnold for four  सालो  .
Controversy arose  जब  she sang `` The Star-Spangled Banner ``  off-key  at a 1990 nationally  aired  baseball game , followed by grabbing her crotch and spitting .
After her sitcom ended , she launched  उसके  own talk show , The Roseanne Show , which aired from 1998  to  2000 .
In 2005  ,  she returned  to  stand-up comedy with a world tour .
In 2011 , she starred in an unscripted TV show , Roseanne 's Nuts , that lasted from  जुलाई   to  September of  कि  year  ,  about her  जीवन  on a Hawaiian farm  .
In early 2012 , Barr announced her candidacy for the Presidential nomination of the Green Party .
barr  lost the nomination to Jill Stein .
She then sought the presidential nomination of the Peace and Freedom Party , which she won on  अगस्त  4 , 2012 .
barr  received  61,971  votes in the  सामान्य  election ,  रखकर   छठे  overall  .
Francesco Albani  's   17th  century Baptism of  मसीह  is a typical depiction with  the  sky opening and the  पावन  Spirit descending as a dove .
The baptism of Jesus marks the beginning of his public ministry .
This event is  अंकित  in the canonical gospels  of  Matthew ,  चिह्नित  and  ल्यूक  .
John 's gospel does  नहीं  describe Jesus ' baptism , but John the Baptist  करता   गवाही   of  the other things in .
In the  नई  Testament , John the  बैपटिस्ट  preached the baptism  of  repentance for the remission of sins ( ) , and declared himself a forerunner of he that would baptize `` with the Holy Ghost  और  with fire '' ( ) .
In so doing he was preparing the way for Jesus .
Jesus  आए  to the Jordan River where he was baptized by John  .
The baptismal scene includes the heavens opening  ,  a dove-like descent of the Holy Spirit , and a voice from heaven saying , `` This is my beloved Son , in whom I am well pleased .  ''
Most modern scholars view the fact that Jesus  थी  baptized by John as  an  historical event  to  which a high  उपाधि  of certainty can be assigned .
Along with the  crucifixion  of  यीशु  most scholars view it  as  one of the two historically certain facts about him , and often use it as the starting points for the study of  the  historical  यीशु  .
The baptism  is  one of the five  प्रमुख  milestones in  the  gospel narrative of the life of  यीशु  , the others being the Transfiguration , Crucifixion  ,  Resurrection , and Ascension .
Most Christian denominations view  the  baptism of Jesus as an important event and a basis for the  ईसाई  rite of baptism ( see also )  .
In Eastern Christianity ,  यीशु  ' baptism is commemorated on 6 January , the feast of Epiphany .
In the  रोमन  Catholic Church , the Anglican Communion , the  लूथरन  Churches and some other Western denominations , it  is  recalled on a day within the following week ,  the  feast of the baptism of the Lord .
In Roman Catholicism , the baptism of Jesus is one of the Luminous  रहस्यों  sometimes added to the Rosary .
It is a Trinitarian feast in the Eastern Orthodox Churches .
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of vitamin B12 .
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12 , occurring as dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12 ,  भी  called cobalamin , is  a   water-soluble  vitamin with a key role in the normal functioning of the brain  और  nervous system , and for the formation of blood .
it  is one  of  the eight B vitamins .
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body  ,  especially affecting DNA synthesis and regulation , but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production .
Neither fungi , plants ,  nor  animals are capable of producing vitamin B12 .
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its synthesis , although many foods are a natural source of  b12  because of bacterial  symbiosis  .
The vitamin is  the  largest and most  structurally  complicated vitamin and can be  उत्पादित  industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis .
Vitamin B12  consists  of a class of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ) ,  सब  of which have vitamin activity .
It contains the biochemically rare element cobalt .
Biosynthesis of the basic  ढांचा  of the  विटामिन  is accomplished only by bacteria ( which usually produce hydroxocobalamin  )  ,  लकिन  conversion between different forms of the  विटामिन  can be accomplished in the human body .
A common semi-synthetic form of  the  vitamin , cyanocobalamin , does not occur in nature , but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements , and  as  a food additive , because of its stability  और  lower production cost .
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin  और  adenosylcobalamin  ,  leaving behind the  साइनाइड   ,  albeit in minimal concentration  .
More recently , hydroxocobalamin ,  methylcobalamin  , and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological  उत्पाद  and food supplements .
The extra utility of these is  फिलहाल  debated .
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia , which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible  लिये  secreting  मूलभूत  factor  हैं   नष्ट  .
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12 ,  so  a lack of intrinsic factor , as seen in  घातक   रक्ताल्पता  , causes a vitamin B12 deficiency .
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical effects have since been elucidated .
Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 war film  उत्पादित  , directed and co-written by Stanley Kubrick .
It is an adaptation  of   गुस्ताव  Hasford 's 1979 novel The  short-timers  and stars Matthew Modine , Vincent D'Onofrio , R. Lee Ermey , Arliss Howard , and Adam Baldwin .
The film follows a platoon of U.S. Marines  through  their training and the experiences of two of the platoon 's Marines in the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War .
the  film 's title refers to the full metal jacket bullet used by infantry riflemen .
The film received critical acclaim .
It received an Academy Award nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay for Kubrick , Michael Herr and Gustav Hasford .
in  2001  ,  the American Film Institute  लगाई  Full Metal Jacket at #  95  in their ``  एएफआई  's 100 Years  ...  100 Thrills `` poll .
TMZ is a celebrity news website that debuted on November 8 , 2005 .
It was a collaboration between  एओएल  and Telepictures Productions  ,  a division of Warner Bros.  ,  until Time Warner  divested  AOL in 2009 .
However , it remained affiliated with AOL News and has the  एओएल  News logo affixed in the upper right  कोने  .
The name TMZ  स्टैंड  for the historic `` studio  मण्डल   ``  or 30-mile zone radius from the intersection of West Beverly Boulevard and North La Cienega  boulevard  in Los Angeles .
TMZ 's managing  एडिटर  is  घनघोर  Levin , a lawyer-turned-journalist who was previously a legal expert for  the  Los Angeles television station KCBS-TV .
The site claims that it does not pay for stories or interviews ; however ,  levin  has  admitted  that TMZ does `` sometimes  अदा  sources for leads on stories '' .
Levin has stated that `` everything is researched and vetted for accuracy .  ''
A companion TV series , TMZ on TV ,  debuted  on September 10  ,  2007 .
Scream 3 is a 2000 American slasher  फिल्मी   निर्मित  by Kevin Williamson ,  निर्देशित  by Wes Craven and written by Ehren Kruger , starring Neve Campbell , Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette .
it  was released  on  February 4 ,  2000  as the third installment in the Scream  फिल्मी   श्रेणी  .
The events of the story are set three years after those of  चीख  2 and follows Sidney Prescott ( Campbell ) who has gone into self-imposed isolation following the events of the previous two films but is drawn to Hollywood  बाद  a  नई  Ghostface begins killing  the  cast of the film within a film `` Stab 3 '' .
Scream 3 combines the violence of the slasher genre with comedy and ``  whodunit  `` mystery while  satirizing  the cliché of  फिल्मी  trilogies .
Unlike the previous Scream films , there was an  increased  emphasis on  comedic  elements  और  the violence and horror  थी  reduced in response to increased public scrutiny about violence in media following the Columbine High School massacre .
The film was the  concluding  chapter of  the  Scream series until  it   थी  revived with a sequel , Scream  4  , in 2011 .
Williamson provided a five-page outline for  दो  sequels to  चीख  when auctioning his original script , hoping to entice bidders with the potential of buying a franchise .
Williamson 's commitments to other projects meant he was unable  to  develop a complete script for Scream 3 and writing duties were undertaken by Ehren Kruger who discarded much of  विलियमसन  's  टीप  .
Craven and Marco Beltrami returned to  सीधा  and score the film respectively as they had  साथ  the previous  दो  series entries  .
Production was troubled with script rewrites , with pages sometimes only ready on the day of filming , and scheduling difficulties with the main cast .
Scream 3 performed  दोनो  financially and  critically  worse than its  preceding  films , earning over  $  161 million and with many critics claiming that the film had become what Scream originally  ``  spoofed `` .
Despite negative criticism the  फिल्मी  did receive praise with reviewers calling it the perfect end to the Scream trilogy .
As of 2012 , the film is currently the number 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in North America , following Scream at number 1 and Scream 2 at number 2  .
The film 's soundtrack was well-received , spending fourteen  सप्ताह  on the Billboard 200 and reaching a high of # 32 .
Shoulder impingement syndrome , also  पुकारा  painful arc syndrome , supraspinatus syndrome , swimmer 's shoulder , and thrower 's shoulder , is  a  clinical syndrome which occurs when the tendons of the rotator cuff  मांसपेशियां  become irritated and inflamed  as   वे  pass through the  subacromial  space , the passage beneath the acromion .
This can  परिणाम  in  पीड़ा  , weakness and loss of movement at the shoulder .
JLA was a monthly comic book published by DC Comics from January 1997  to   अप्रैल  2006 featuring  the  Justice League .
The colonial history of the United States covers the history of European settlements from the start of colonization of America until their incorporation into the United States .
In the late 16th century , England , France  ,  Spain and the Netherlands launched major colonization programs in eastern  उत्तर  America .
Small early attempts—such  as  the English Lost Colony of Roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the death rate of the first arrivals was very  ऊँची  .
Nevertheless successful colonies were  स्थापित  .
यूरोपीय  settlers came from a variety of social and religious groups .
No aristocrats settled permanently  ,  but a number of adventurers ,  सैनिको  , farmers , and tradesmen arrived .
Diversity was an American characteristic as the Dutch of New Netherland , the Swedes and Finns of New Sweden , the English Quakers of Pennsylvania , the English Puritans  of  New England , the English  settlers  of  jamestown  , and the `` worthy poor '' of Georgia , came to the new  महाद्वीप  and built colonies with distinctive social , religious , political  और  economic styles .
occasionally  one colony took  कंट्रोल  of another ( during wars between their European parents ) .
Only in Nova Scotia ( now part of Canada ) did the conquerors expel the previous colonists .
Instead they all lived side by  पक्ष  in peace .
There were no major civil wars among the 13 colonies , and the two chief armed rebellions ( in Virginia in 1676 and  in  New York in 1689–91 ) were short-lived failures .
Wars  between  the French and the British—the  फ्रेंच  and Indian Wars and Father Rale 's War —were recurrent , and involved French-support for Wabanaki Confederacy attacks on the frontiers .
By 1760 France was  पराजित  and the British seized  इसके   colonies  .
The four distinct regions were : New England  ,  the Middle Colonies , the Chesapeake Bay Colonies (  अपर  South ) and the Lower South .
Some  इतिहासकारों  add a fifth region , the  frontier  , which  थी  never separately organized .
By the time European settlers arrived around 1600–1650 , the majority of the Native Americans living in the eastern United States had been decimated by new diseases  ,  introduced to them decades before by explorers  और  sailors  .
See timeline of Colonial America for list of historical events .
Gloria Laura Vanderbilt  (  born February 20 , 1924 ) is an American artist , author , actress , heiress ,  और  socialite most noted as  an  early developer of designer blue jeans  .
She  is  a member of the prominent Vanderbilt  परिवार  of New York and the mother of CNN 's Anderson Cooper .
Greece  (  Romanization of Greek| ) , officially  the  Hellenic  गणतंत्र  ( ' ) , is a  देश  in  southeast  Europe .
according  to the  2011  census , Greece 's population is around 11  लाख  .
Athens is the nation 's capital  और  largest city , its urban area also including Piraeus .
Greece is strategically located at the crossroads of Europe , Asia , the Middle East  ,  and  अफ़्रीकी  , and has land borders with Albania , the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north , and Turkey to the northeast .
The Aegean Sea lies to the  ईस्ट  of mainland  यूनानियों  , the Ionian Sea to the west  ,  and the Mediterranean  समुद्र  to the south .
Greece  रै  the 11th  longest  coastline in the world at in length , featuring a vast number of islands ( approximately 1,400 , of which 227 are inhabited )  ,  including Crete , the Dodecanese , the Cyclades , and the Ionian Islands among others .
Eighty percent of  यूनानियों  consists of mountains , of which Mount Olympus is the highest  at  .
Modern Greece traces its roots to the civilization of Ancient Greece  ,  generally considered the cradle of Western civilization .
As such , it is the birthplace of democracy , Western philosophy , the Olympic Games , Western literature and historiography , political science , major scientific  और   गणितीय   सिद्धान्त  , and Western drama , including both tragedy and comedy .
This legacy is partly reflected  in  the seventeen UNESCO World  विरासत  Sites located in Greece , ranking it 7th in Europe and 13th in the world .
The modern Greek state was established in 1830  ,  following the Greek War  of  Independence .
Greece is  a  founding  सदस्य  of the United Nations , has been a member of  कया  is now the European Union  चूंकि  1981 ( and the eurozone since 2001  )  , and has been  a  member of  नाटो  since 1952 .
यूनानियों   is  a developed country with an advanced , high-income economy and very high standards of  जीना  , including  the   संसार  's 21st highest  विशेषता  of life as of 2010 .
Greece  's   अर्थव्यवस्था  is also the largest in the Balkans , where Greece is an important regional investor .
A prime meridian is a meridian , i.e . a line of longitude , at which longitude is defined to be 0° .
A prime meridian and its opposite in a 360°-system , the 180th meridian ( at  180°  longitude ) , form a great circle .
This great circle divides the  गोला  , e.g . the Earth , into two  बांटती  .
If one uses directions of East and West  इससे  a defined  प्रधान   मध्याह्न  , then they  can  be called Eastern Hemisphere and Western Hemisphere .
Gerardus Mercator in his  एटलस  Cosmographicae (  1595  ) uses a prime  मध्याह्न  somewhere close to 25°W , passing  बस  to the west of Santa  मरिया  Island in the  अटलांटिक  .
His 180th meridian runs along the Strait of Anián ( Bering Strait )
A prime meridian is  ultimately  arbitrary , unlike an equator , which is determined by the axis of rotation—and  विभिन्न  conventions have been used  or  advocated  in  different regions and throughout history .
Minka Dumont Kelly ( born Minka Dumont  dufay  ;  जून  24 , 1980  )  is an American actress .
She is perhaps best known for  उसके  roles in Charlie 's Angels , Friday Night Lights , and  the  Roommate .
R.O.B . ( Robotic Operating Buddy ) , released in Japan as the , is an  accessory   लिये  the Nintendo Entertainment  प्रणाली   (   एनईएस  ) .
It  थी  released in July 1985 in Japan and later that year in North America .
It had a short product lifespan ,  साथ  support for only two games which comprised the ``  रोबोट  Series '' ; Gyromite and  stack-up  .
R.O.B . was released with the intention of  portraying  the Nintendo Entertainment System  as  something  अनोखा   in   अनुक्रम  to alleviate retail fears following the video game crash of 1983 .
R.O.B . was available in the  डीलक्स  Set , a configuration for the console that included  ,  among other things , R.O.B .  और  Gyromite .
Stack-Up was purchased separately and included its  अपना  physical game pieces .
The Walking Liberty half dollar was a silver 50-cent piece  or  half  डालर  coin issued by the United States Mint from 1916 to 1947 ; it was designed by Adolph A. Weinman .
in  1915 , the new Mint Director , Robert W.  woolley   ,   आए   to  believe that he was not  तभी  allowed but required by  विधि  to replace coin designs that had been in use for 25 years .
He therefore began the process  of   replacing  the Barber coinage :  dimes  , quarters  और   हाफ  dollars , all  bearing  similar designs by long-time Mint Engraver Charles E. Barber , and first struck in 1892 .
Woolley had the Commission of Fine Arts conduct a competition ,  as  a result of which Weinman was selected to design the dime and half dollar .
Weinman 's design of Liberty  striding  towards the Sun for the half dollar proved difficult to perfect , and Treasury Secretary William G.  mcadoo  , whose department included the  मिंट  ,  माना  having Barber create his own design .
Mint officials were successful in getting Weinman 's design into production , although it never struck very well ,  जिससे  may have been a factor in its replacement by the Franklin half  डालर  beginning in 1948 .
Nevertheless , art historian Cornelius Vermeule considered the piece to be among the most beautiful US coins .
Since 1986 , a modification of Weinman 's obverse design has been used for the American Silver Eagle .
The  टोयोटा  4Runner is a  mid-size  sport utility vehicle ( SUV ) produced by the Japanese manufacturer Toyota and sold  throughout  the world from  1984  to present .
In Japan it  थी  known as the Toyota Hilux Surf .
The original 4Runner was a  कॉम्पैक्ट  SUV  और  little more  than  a Toyota pickup truck with  a  fiberglass shell over the bed ,  लकिन  the model has since undergone significant independent development  into  a cross between a compact and  a  mid-size SUV  .
All 4Runners have been built at Toyota 's Tahara plant in Tahara , Aichi ,  जापानी  , or at Hino Motors  '  Hamura , Japan plant  ,  and in Brazil  .
Its  mid-size  crossover SUV  बंटवारा   is  the Toyota Highlander .
This article deals with  आयुर्विज्ञान  as practiced by trained professionals from  प्राचीन  times to the present .
the  ancient  उन्होंने  had a system  of  medicine that was very advanced for its time and influenced later medical traditions .
The Egyptians and Babylonians both  introduced  the concepts  of   निदान  , prognosis , and medical examination .
The Greeks went even further , and advanced as well medical ethics .
The Hippocratic Oath , still taken by doctors today , was written in Greece in the 5th century  bce  .
In the medieval era , surgical practices inherited from the ancient masters  यहूद  improved and then  systematized  in  rogerius  's The  अभ्यास  of Surgery .
Universities began systematic training of physicians around the years 1220 in Italy .
During the Renaissance , understanding of anatomy improved , and the microscope was invented .
The germ theory of disease in the  19th  century led to cures for many  संक्रामक  diseases .
Military doctors advanced the methods of  आघात  treatment and surgery .
Public health  उपायों  were  विकसित  especially in the 19th century as the rapid growth of  शहरों   जरूरी  systematic  sanitary  measures .
Advanced research  centers  opened in the early 20th century , often connected with major hospitals .
The  mid-20th  century was characterized by new  biological  treatments , such as antibiotics .
These advancements , along with developments in chemistry , genetics , and lab technology (  ऐसे  as  the  x-ray ) led  to   आधुनिक  medicine  .
Medicine was heavily professionalized in the 20th century , and new careers opened to women as  नर्स  ( from the  1870s  ) and as physicians ( especially after  1970  ) .
The 21st century is characterized by very advanced research involving numerous fields of science .
The Hippocratic Corpus , is a collection of early medical  works  from ancient Greece strongly associated with the ancient Greek physician Hippocrates and his  शिक्षाओं  .
Potassium is a chemical element with  प्रतीक  K ( from Neo-Latin kalium ) and atomic number 19 .
Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal  कि  oxidizes rapidly in air and is very reactive with water  ,   generating  sufficient heat to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame .
Because potassium  और  sodium are chemically very similar , their  लवण  were not at first differentiated .
The existence of multiple elements in their salts was suspected from 1702 , and this was proven in 1807 when potassium and sodium were individually isolated from different salts  by  electrolysis .
Potassium in nature occurs only  in  ionic  लवण  .
As such  ,  it is found  dissolved  in seawater ( which is 0.04 % potassium by weight  )  , and  is  part of many minerals .
Most  औद्योगिक   रासायनिक  applications of  पोटैशियम  employ the relatively high solubility in water  of  potassium compounds ,  ऐसे  as potassium soaps .
Potassium metal has  तभी  a few special applications , being  replaced  in most chemical reactions  साथ  sodium metal .
Potassium ions are necessary for the function of all living cells .
Potassium ion  diffusion  is a key mechanism in nerve transmission , and potassium depletion in animals , including humans , results in various cardiac dysfunctions .
Potassium accumulates in plant cells , and thus fresh fruits and vegetables  हैं  a good dietary  सोर्स   of  it .
Conversely ,  सबसे  plants except specialist halophytes are intolerant of salt , and sodium  is  present in them only  in   कम  concentration .
This resulted in potassium first being isolated from potash , the ashes of plants , giving the element its name  .
For the same  कारण  , heavy crop production rapidly depletes  soils  of potassium , and agricultural fertilizers consume  95  %  of  global potassium chemical  उत्पादन   .
the  Singapore dollar or dollar ( sign  :  $ ; code  :  SGD ) is the official currency of Singapore .
It is  सामान्यतः   abbreviated  with  the  dollar sign $ , or alternatively S $ to distinguish it from  अन्य  dollar -denominated currencies .
It is divided into 100 cents .
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei Currency and Monetary Board still maintain the historic exchangeability of their two currencies , the Singaporean dollar and the Brunei  डालर   ,  respectively .
The dollar is accepted as `` customary tender  ''  in Brunei according to the Currency Interchangeability Agreement .
Likewise , the Brunei dollar is customarily accepted in Singapore
James Samuel Coleman  (  May 12 , 1926 – March 25 ,  1995  ) was an American sociologist  ,  theorist and empirical researcher ,  आधारित  chiefly at the University of Chicago  .
He was elected president of the American Sociological Association .
Coleman studied the sociology of education , public policy , and  थी  one of the earliest users  of  the term `` social capital `` .
His Foundations of Social Theory influenced sociological  सिद्धान्त  .
His The Adolescent  समाज  ( 1961 ) and `` Coleman Report '' ( Equality of Educational Opportunity , 1966 ) were two of the most heavily cited books in educational  समाजशास्त्र  .
The landmark Coleman Report helped transform educational theory , reshape  नेशनल  education policies  ,  and influenced public and scholarly opinion regarding the role of schooling in determining equality and productivity in the United States .
Superman (  इससे  DC comics )  थी  the first superhero created , art by  जिम  Lee .
A superhero ( sometimes rendered  super-hero  or super  नायिका  ) is a type  of  stock character possessing ``  असाधारण  or superhuman powers '' and  समर्पित  to protecting the public .
Since the debut of the prototypical superhero Superman in 1938 , stories of superheroes—ranging  इससे  brief episodic  adventures  to continuing years-long sagas—have dominated American  कॉमिक  books and crossed over into other media .
The  शब्द  itself dates to at least 1917 .
A female  सुपरहीरो  is sometimes called  a  superheroine ( also rendered super-heroine or super heroine ) .
`` SUPER  नायक  '' is a trademark co-owned by DC  कॉमिक्स  and Marvel Comics  .
By  सबसे  definitions , characters do not strictly require actual superhuman powers to be deemed superheroes , although terms such as costumed  अपराधों  fighters or masked vigilantes are  sometimes  used to refer  to   those  such as Batman and Green Arrow without such powers who  share  other common superhero traits .
Such characters were generally referred to as `` mystery men '' in the so-called Golden Age  of  Comic Books to distinguish them from characters with super-powers .
Normally , superheroes use their powers  to  counter day-to-day crime while also  combating  threats  विरूद्ध  humanity by supervillains , their criminal counterparts .
Often , one of these supervillains will be the superhero 's archenemy .
As well , some longrunning superheroes  ,  such as Superman , Batman , Spider-Man and Iron Man each has a rogues gallery of enemies .
As  खूब  , superheroes sometimes  होगा  combat such irregular  खतरे  as aliens , magical/ fantasy entities , American war  दुश्मनों  such as  नात्सीवाद  or communism , and  godlike  or demonic creatures .
The following is a historical  सूची  of actors and primary  अक्षर  roles which appear on the American  साबुन  opera One Life to Live .
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont and  अभिनीत  Tim Robbins and Morgan  फ्रीमैन  .
Adapted from the  स्टीफन  King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption , the film tells the story  of  Andy Dufresne , a banker who spends nearly  दो  decades in Shawshank State Prison for the  हत्या  of his wife and her lover despite his  दावा  of innocence .
दौरान  his time at  the  prison , he  befriends  a  fellow  inmate , Ellis Boyd `` Red '' Redding , and finds himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using him in his money laundering operation .
Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its budget , the film received favorable  समीक्षाएँ  from critics  ,   अनेक  award nominations , and has since enjoyed a remarkable life on cable television , VHS , DVD , and Blu-ray .
It was included in the American Film Institute 's 100 Years ... 100 Movies  10th  Anniversary Edition .
IT management is the discipline whereby  सब  of the technology resources of a  कड़  are managed in accordance with its needs and priorities  .
These resources may include tangible  निवेश  like  कंप्यूटर  hardware , software  ,  data , networks and data centre facilities , as well as the staffs who are hired to maintain them .
Managing this responsibility within a company entails many of  the  basic management functions , like budgeting , staffing , and organizing and controlling , along with other aspects that are unique to technology , like change management , software design , network planning , tech support etc .
The Penitentiary of New  मैक्सिको  Prison Riot , which took place on February 2 and 3  ,  1980  ,  in the state 's maximum security prison south of  सांता   fe  , was one  of  the most violent prison riots in the history of the American correctional system  :  33 inmates died and more  than  200 inmates were treated for injuries .
None of the 12 officers taken hostage were killed , but seven were treated for injuries caused by beatings and rapes .
This was the third  प्रमुख  riot at  the  NM State Penitentiary  ,  the first occurring on 19 July 1922 and the second on 15 June 1953 .
Author Roger Morris suggests the  मौत  toll may  have  been higher , as a number of bodies were incinerated or dismembered during the  कोर्स  of the mayhem .
`` Red Cardinal '' redirects here .
For  the  plant Erythrina herbacea , see Coral Bean .
The Northern Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North American bird in the genus Cardinalis ; it is also known colloquially as the  redbird  or common cardinal .
It can be found in southern Canada , through the eastern United States from Maine to Texas  और  south through Mexico .
it  is found in  वुडलैंड्स  , gardens , shrublands , and swamps .
the  Northern Cardinal is a mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ) .
It has a  distinctive  crest on the head and a mask on the face which is black in the male and gray  in  the female  .
the  male is a vibrant red , while  the  female  is  a dull  red-brown  shade .
the  Northern Cardinal is mainly granivorous , but also feeds on insects and fruit .
The male behaves territorially ,  अंकन  out his territory with song .
During courtship , the male feeds seed to the  मादा  beak-to-beak  .
A clutch  of  three to four eggs is laid , and two to four clutches are produced each year .
It was once prized as a pet , but  इसके  sale as cage birds is now banned  in  the  संयुक्त  States by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 .
Surface runoff , also called nonpoint source pollution , from a farm  फ़ील्ड   in  Iowa during a rain storm .
Topsoil as well as farm fertilizers and other potential pollutants run off  unprotected  farm fields when heavy rains occur .
Topsoil is  the  upper , outermost layer of soil , usually the top to .
It has the highest concentration of  सशुल्क  matter  और  microorganisms and  is   जहाँ  most of the Earth 's biological soil activity occurs .
Musical  cryptogram  : `` Aschbeg ''  नियत  in Schoenberg 's Sechs kleine Klavierstücke , Op . 19 , no . 1  ,  m. 5 .
Note that the notes do not come in spelling order but  हैं  all adjacent (  नहीं   अलग  by other notes )  .
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke , Op . 19  (  or Six Little Piano Pieces ) is a set of pieces for solo piano  लिखा  by the Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg , published in 1913 .
मैक्एफ़ी   ,  Inc. ( ) is an American global computer  सुरक्षा  software company headquartered in Santa Clara , California , and the world 's largest dedicated  सुरक्षा  technology company .
As of February 28 , 2011 , McAfee is a  wholly  owned subsidiary of Intel .
McAfee 's competitors in the  एंटीवायरस  industry are Avira , BitDefender  ,  BullGuard , F-Secure , Frisk , Kaspersky , Symantec , and Trend Micro to  नाम  a  few  .
Saint  रीता  of  cascia  ( Born Margherita Lotti  1381  - May 22 , 1457 ) was an Italian Augustinian nun , widow and  संत  venerated in the Roman Catholic Church .
Rita  थी  married at an early age .
The marriage lasted for 18 years , during which she is remembered for her Christian values as a model wife and mother who  बना  efforts to convert her husband from  उसके  abusive behavior .
Upon the murder of her husband by another feuding family , she sought to dissuade her sons from revenge .
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of religious sisters , where she was known for practicing mortification of the flesh , along with  the  apparent  efficacy  of her prayers  .
St. Rita  is  venerated due to various miracles attributed to her intercession , and is often portrayed with a bleeding wound on her  माथे  , which the Roman Catholic Church claims  to  have been a partial stigmata .
The Roman Catholic Church , under the pontificate of Pope  leo  XIII officially canonized  रीता  on  may  24 , 1900 ,  जबकि  her feast day  is  celebrated every May 22 .
in   अनेक  pious Catholic countries , Rita is known to be a patroness for abused wives and mourning  महिलाओं  .
North America is a continent wholly within  the  Northern Hemisphere and almost wholly within the Western  गोलार्ध  .
It is also considered  a  northern  उपमहाद्वीप  of the Americas .
It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean , to the east by the Atlantic Ocean , to the west  और  south by  the  Pacific Ocean  ,  and to the southeast  by   दक्षिण  America and the Caribbean Sea .
North America covers an area of about 24,709,000  वर्गाकार  kilometers ( 9,540,000 square miles ) , about 4.8  %  of the planet 's surface or about 16.5 % of its land area .
As of July 2008 ,  इसके  population was  अनुमानित  at  nearly  529 million  लोगों  across 23 independent states , representing about 7.5 % of the human population .
North  अमेरिका  is the third-largest continent in area , following Asia and Africa  ,  and the fourth in population  बाद  Asia , Africa ,  और  Europe .
The  पहला  people to  सजीव  in North America were  paleoindians  who began to arrive during the  पिछला  glacial period by crossing the  बेरिंग  land  सेतु  .
They differentiated  into  a number of diverse cultures and communities across the continent .
The largest and most advanced  pre-columbian  civilizations in North America were the Aztecs in what is now Mexico and the Mayans in Central America .
European colonists  began  to arrive  starting  in the 16th and 17th centuries , wiping out large  संख्याएँ  of the native populations and beginning an  era  of European dominance .
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January  28  , 1985 ) , better known by his stage name J. Cole , is an American hip-hop recording artist and record producer from Fayetteville ,  उत्तर  Carolina .
in  2009 , he  became  the first artist to sign to Jay-Z 's Roc Nation label .
His long-awaited debut album , entitled Cole World : The Sideline Story , was released on September  27  , 2011 .
The album debuted at number one on the US  बिलबोर्ड   200  , Top  r   &   b  Albums and Top Rap Albums chart , selling more  than  218,000 in its first week .
He received a nomination for Best New Artist at the 54th Grammy Awards .
The two main characters of the series  ,  Ratchet (  सही  ) and Clank ( left  )  .
ratchet  & Clank is a  श्रेणी  of platform video games .
The franchise was created and developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for many different PlayStation consoles , such as PlayStation 2 and  प्लेस्टेशन  3 with the exclusion of Size Matters and Secret Agent Clank , which were developed by High  प्रभाव  Games for the PlayStation Portable .
Every game in  the  series has been released for every console , as the  ip  is owned by Sony Computer Entertainment .
An animated  विशेषता  film adaptation produced by Rainmaker Entertainment  और  Blockade Entertainment is  अनुसूचित   लिये  a theatrical release sometime  in  2015 .
The games take place in a science  fiction  setting and follow the adventures of Ratchet ( an animalistic human-like character known as a Lombax  ,  who  is  a mechanic  )  and Clank ( a  diminutive  , sentient robot ) as they travel through  the  universe , saving it from evil forces  on  a regular basis .
The  श्रेणी  is noted for the inclusion of many exotic and  अद्वितीय  , over the top weapons  और  devices , a concept  कि  Insomniac Games also  विस्तारित  into  उनके  other games  .
A will or testament is  a  legal  घोषणा   by  which a person  ,  the testator , names one or  अधिक  persons to manage his/her estate and provides for the transfer of his property at  मौत  .
For the devolution of property  नहीं  disposed of by  होगा  , see inheritance and intestacy .
In the strictest sense  ,  a `` will '' has historically been limited to real property  जबकि  `` testament '' applies  तभी  to dispositions of personal property ( thus giving rise to the popular title of the document as `` Last Will and  वसीयत  '' ) , though this distinction is seldom observed today .
A will may also create a testamentary trust that is effective only after the death of the testator .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply power  24  hours a  दिन   .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat  इससे  the sun ,  रै  been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity , solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis , which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most  तात्कालिक  energy  समस्याएं  the world now faces .
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending  on  the  रास्ता  they  कैप्चर  , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active solar techniques include  the  use of photovoltaic panels and  सौर  thermal  collectors  to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun , selecting materials  साथ  favorable thermal mass or light  dispersing  properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the  विकास  of affordable , inexhaustible and  साफ  solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits .
it  will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource , enhance sustainability , reduce pollution , lower the costs of  mitigating  climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise  .
These advantages are global  .
Hence  the  additional costs of the incentives for early  deployment  should be considered learning investments ;  वे   जरूर  be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
सर  Thomas More ( ; 7 February 14786 July 1535 ) , known  to  Roman Catholics as Saint Thomas More since 1935 , was an English lawyer , social philosopher , author , statesman , and noted Renaissance humanist .
He was an important councillor to Henry  viii  of England and was Lord Chancellor from October 1529 to 16  may  1532 .
He  थी  canonized  by  Pope Pius XI in 1935 as one of the early  शहीदो  of the schism that separated the Church of England  इससे  Rome in the  16th  century .
In 2000 , Pope John Paul II declared him patron of Catholic statesmen and politicians .
More was an opponent of the Protestant Reformation , in particular of Martin Luther and William Tyndale .
however  , since 1980 , he is also commemorated by the Church of England as  a  reformation martyr .
अधिक  coined the  शब्द  `` utopia `` – a name he gave to the ideal and imaginary island nation  ,  the political system of  जिससे   he  described in Utopia , published in 1516 .
He opposed the King 's separation from the Roman Catholic  गिरिजाघर  and refused to accept him as Supreme Head of the Church of England , a title which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534 .
He was imprisoned in 1534 for his refusal to take the oath required by the First Succession Act , because the act disparaged Papal Authority and Henry’s marriage to  कैथरीन  of  aragon  .
In 1535  ,  he was tried for  देशद्रोह  , convicted  on  perjured testimony , and beheaded .
More also helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at straws '' to mean  ``  desperately  trying  even useless things ''  ,  in his Dialogue of Comfort Against Tribulation .
intellectuals  and statesmen across Europe were stunned by More 's execution .
Erasmus saluted him as one `` whose soul  थी  more pure than any snow , whose genius  थी  such that England  never  had and never again will have its like '' .
वहीँ  was a more controversial side to More 's  जीवन  ,  क्युकी  he advocated the persecution and execution of Protestants who refused to  recant  their faith  .
However , the judgement of history has been largely willing to forgive this in light of the times  he  lived in and his martyrdom in the Roman Catholic cause .
Two centuries later  जोनाथन  Swift said More  थी  `` the person of the greatest virtue this kingdom ever produced '' , a sentiment  साथ  which Samuel Johnson agreed .
Historian Hugh Trevor-Roper said  in  1977 that More was `` the first great Englishman whom we  महसूस  that we know , the most saintly of humanists  ,  the most human of saints , the universal man of our cool northern renaissance . ''
Captain Nemo  ,  also  ज्ञात  as Prince  dakkar  , is a fictional character invented by the French science fiction author  जूल्स  Verne .
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels ,  बीस  Thousand Leagues Under the Sea ( 1870 ) and The Mysterious Island ( 1874 ) , and makes a cameo appearance in Verne 's play Journey Through the Impossible ( 1882 ) .
Nemo , one of the most famous antiheroes  in  fiction , is a mysterious figure .
The son of  an  Indian Raja , he is a scientific genius who roams  the   गहराइयों  of the sea in his submarine , the Nautilus , which was built  on   a   उजाड़  island .
Nemo tries to  प्रोजेक्ट  a stern , controlled confidence , but he is driven by a thirst for vengeance and a hatred of  साम्राज्यवाद   (   विशेषकर  the British Empire ) .
He is also wracked by remorse over the deaths of his crew members and even by the  मौतों   of  enemy sailors .
Nemo has appeared  in  various adaptations of Verne 's novels , including films ,  जहाँ  he has been portrayed by a number of different  अभिनेताओं  .
he  has furthermore been adopted by other authors for  समावेश  in their  novels  ,  सबसे  notably in Alan Moore 's The  लीग  of Extraordinary Gentlemen and Philip  जोस  Farmer 's The Other Log of Phileas  fogg  .
Listed below are the  प्रमुख  League Baseball teams with the best season won-lost records in history , as determined by winning percentage ( .700 or better ) , minimum 120 games played .
Acoustic coupler modem
A modem ( modulator-demodulator  )  is a device that modulates an analog carrier signal to encode digital  सूचना  , and also demodulates such  a  carrier signal to decode the transmitted information .
The goal is to produce a signal that can be transmitted easily and decoded to reproduce the  असली  digital data .
Modems can be used over any means of transmitting  एनालॉग  signals , from light emitting diodes to radio .
The most familiar example is a  आवाज़  band modem that turns the  डिजिटल  data of a personal computer into  modulated  electrical signals in the voice frequency range of a telephone channel .
These signals can be transmitted over telephone lines and demodulated by  another   मॉडेम  at  the  receiver side to  रिकवर  the digital data .
Modems are generally  वर्गीकृत  by the amount of data they can send in a given unit of  समय   ,  usually expressed in bits per second (  bit/s  , or bps ) , or bytes per  दूसरी  ( B/s ) .
Modems  can  alternatively be classified by their symbol rate , measured in baud .
The baud unit denotes symbols per second , or the number of times per second  the  modem  भेजना  a new signal  .
For example , the ITU V.21 standard used audio frequency  शिफ़्ट  keying with two possible frequencies corresponding to two distinct symbols  (  or one bit per symbol ) , to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud .
By contrast , the original ITU V.22 standard , which was able to transmit and receive four  पृथक  symbols (  दो  bits per symbol ) , handled 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols per second ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying .
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted  by  the Continental Congress on July 4 , 1776 , which announced that the thirteen American colonies  ,  then at war with Great Britain , regarded themselves as independent states , and no longer a part of  the   अंग्रेजों  Empire .
Instead they now formed  a  new nation—the United States  of  America .
John Adams was a leader in pushing for independence , which was unanimously approved on July 2 .
A committee had already drafted the formal declaration , to be ready  जब  congress voted on  स्वतंत्रता  .
Adams persuaded the committee  to  select Thomas Jefferson  to  compose the original draft of the document , which congress would edit to produce the final version .
The Declaration was ultimately a  औपचारिक  explanation of  क्यों  Congress  था  voted on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain , more than a year after the outbreak  of  the American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday , the Independence Day is celebrated on July 4  ,  although Adams wanted July 2 .
After  ratifying  the text on July 4 , Congress issued  the  Declaration  of  Independence in several forms .
It was  initially  published as the printed Dunlap broadside that was widely distributed and read to the public .
The most famous version of the  घोषणा  , a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of Independence , is displayed at the National Archives in Washington , D.C .
Although the wording of the Declaration was  स्वीकृत  on July 4 , the date of  इसके  signing was August 2 .
The original July 4 United States Declaration of Independence manuscript  थी  lost while  सब  other copies  have  been  निकला  from this original document .
the  sources and interpretation of the Declaration have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry .
The Declaration justified the independence of the United  राज्य  by  लिस्टिंग  colonial grievances against King George III , and by asserting  निश्चित  natural and legal rights , including a  सही  of revolution .
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence , the text of the Declaration was  initially  ignored after the American Revolution .
Since then , it has come to be considered a major statement on human  अधिकारों  , particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident , that all  मेन  are created  बराबर  , that they  हैं  endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights , that among these are Life , Liberty and  the   pursuit  of Happiness .
इस  has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the English language '' , containing `` the most potent and consequential words in American history . ''
The passage came to represent a moral standard  to  which  the  United States should strive .
This view was notably promoted by  अब्राहम  Lincoln , who  माना  the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy ,  और  argued that the  घोषणा  is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted .
It has inspired work  लिये  the rights of marginalized people throughout the world .
The  अर्थव्यवस्था  of Greenland can be characterized as small , mixed and vulnerable .
The present economy consists  of  a big public sector and comprehensive foreign trade , which has resulted in an economy with periods of strong growth , considerable inflation , unemployment problems and extreme dependence on  पूंजी  inflow from Denmark and use  of  outside , mainly Danish , skilled labor .
GDP per capita is similar to the average European economies but the economy is critically  निर्भर   upon  substantial support from the Danish government , which supplies about half the revenues of the home  नियम  government who  in  turn employ about 8,000 Greenlanders out of a labor force  of  40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ) .
Unemployment nonetheless  remains  high , with the rest of the economy dependent upon demand for exports of shrimp and fish .
Hydrogen is  a  chemical element with symbol H  और  atomic number 1 .
With  an  atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ) , hydrogen is the lightest element and its monatomic form (  h1  ) is the most abundant chemical substance , constituting roughly 75 %  of  the Universe 's baryonic mass .
Non- remnant stars are mainly composed of hydrogen in its plasma  राज्य  .
At standard temperature and pressure , hydrogen is a colorless , odorless , tasteless , non-toxic , nonmetallic  ,  highly combustible diatomic gas with  the  molecular formula H2  .
Most of the hydrogen on Earth is in molecules  ऐसे   as  water and organic compounds because hydrogen readily forms covalent compounds with most  non-metallic  elements .
Hydrogen plays a particularly important role in acid-base chemistry with many reactions exchanging protons between soluble molecules .
In ionic compounds , it can take a negative charge ( an anion known  as  a hydride and written as H− ) , or as  a  positively  चार्ज  species H+ .
The latter  cation  is written as though composed of a bare proton  ,  but in reality , hydrogen cations in ionic compounds always occur as more complex species .
The most common isotope of hydrogen is protium ( name rarely used , symbol 1H ) with a single proton and  no   neutrons   .
As the simplest atom known , the  हाइड्रोजन  atom has been of theoretical use  .
For  उदाहरण  ,  as  the only neutral atom with an  analytic   समाधान  to  the  Schrödinger equation , the study of the energetics and bonding of the hydrogen  अणु  played a key role in the development of quantum mechanics .
Hydrogen gas was first artificially produced in the early  16th   सदी  , via the mixing of metals with acids .
in  1766–81 , Henry Cavendish was the first to  recognize  that  हाइड्रोजन  gas was a discrete substance , and that it produces water when burned , a property which later gave it its name : in Greek , hydrogen means ``  water-former  '' .
Industrial production is mainly from the steam reforming of natural gas , and less often from more energy-intensive hydrogen production methods like the electrolysis of water .
Most hydrogen is employed near its production site , with the two largest uses being fossil fuel  प्रसंस्करण  ( e.g. , hydrocracking )  और  ammonia production , mostly for the fertilizer market .
Hydrogen is a concern in metallurgy as it can embrittle many metals , complicating the design of pipelines and storage tanks .
Unstoppable is  a  2010 American  कार्रवाई  thriller film directed by Tony  स्कॉट  ,  लिखा  by Mark Bomback , and starring Denzel Washington and Chris Pine .
The film , loosely  आधारित   on  the real-life  csx  8888 incident  ,  tells the story of  a  runaway  भाड़ा  train , and the two men ( Washington and  पाइन  ) who manage to stop it .
It  थी  Scott 's  फाइनल   विशेषता  film before his  मौत  in 2012 .
The  फिल्मी  was released in the United States and Canada on  नवम्बर  12 , 2010 , and  in  the United Kingdom on November 24 , 2010 .
It received mostly favorable reviews from film critics ; it garnered a ``  certified  Fresh  ''  rating on Rotten Tomatoes based  upon  aggregated reviews  और  a rating of `` Generally favorable reviews '' at Metacritic .
The film was nominated for an  अकादमी  Award for Best Sound Editing at the 83rd Academy Awards , but  खोया  to Inception .
In photography , bracketing is the general technique of taking several shots of the  वही   विषय  using different camera settings .
bracketing  is useful and often recommended in situations that make it difficult to obtain a satisfactory image  साथ  a single shot , especially when a small variation in exposure parameters has a  comparatively  large effect on the resulting image .
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing by using a setting on the camera to take  अनेक  bracketed shots ( in contrast to the photographer altering the settings by  हाथ  between each shot ) .
Given the time it takes to  accomplish  multiple shots , it is typically  ,  but not always , used  लिये  static subjects .
insulated  glazing  (  IG ) , more  commonly  known as double glazing ( or double-pane , and increasingly triple glazing/pane ) are double or triple glass window panes separated by an air or other gas filled space to reduce heat transfer across a part of  the  building envelope .
Insulated Glass Units are manufactured with glass in range of thickness from 3 mm to 10 mm  or  more in special  अनुप्रयोग  .
Laminated or tempered glass may also be  प्रयुक्त  as part of the  निर्माण  .
Most  इकाई  are manufactured with the same thickness of glass used on both panes but  खास  applications such as  ध्वनिक  attenuation  or  security may  आवश्यकता  wide ranges of  thicknesses   to  be incorporated in  the  same unit .
A sectioned diagram  of  a fixed Insulated Glazed Unit ( IGU ) , indicating the numbering convention used in  इस  article .
Surface # 1 is facing outside , Surface # 2 is the  अंदर  surface of the exterior pane , Surface # 3 is the outside surface  of  the interior pane , and Surface  #  4 is the inside surface of interior pane .
the   खिड़की  frame is labelled  #  5 , a spacer is  indicated   as  # 6 , seals are shown in red ( # 7 ) , the internal reveal  is  on the right hand side (  #  8  )  and the exterior windowsill on the  बाएँ  ( # 9 )
To reduce shear  प्रभाव  on the sealed unit ( a major cause of premature failure ) , manufacturers use  a   नियम  of thumb that permits a difference of 1 mm between the thickness of the panes of glass used in the unit and  स्टिल  maintain the warranty for the unit .
For example , a unit  may  be ordered with a 4 mm pane on the exterior and a 3 mm pane on the interior .
These  विसंगतियाँ  are allowed for architectural and  लागत  reasons .
अन्य  combinations  can  be specified and produced but the manufacturer may reserve the right to  सीमा  the term of the warranty or  इंकार  to warranty the unit altogether .
For ease of description the surfaces of a double paned unit are named according to the following convention :  सतह  #  1  ( facing outside  )   ,   सतह  # 2 ( inside of outside pane ) , Surface # 3 ( outside of inside pane ) and Surface # 4 (  अंदर  surface of inside pane  )  .
Applying the corresponding nomenclature for triple paned units results  in  surfaces # 1 through # 6 .
The performance of  insulating  glazing can be modified through the use of the following:
A  ठेठ  installation of insulated glazing windows with uPVC window frames .
Selenium is a chemical element with symbol Se and atomic number 34 .
It is a nonmetal with properties that are intermediate between those of  इसके  periodic  तालिका  column-adjacent chalcogen  तत्व   गंधक   और  tellurium .
It rarely occurs  in  its elemental state in nature , or as pure  अयस्क  compounds .
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη  selene  meaning `` Moon '' ) was discovered  in  1817 by Jöns Jacob Berzelius , who noted the similarity of the new element to the previously-known tellurium ( named for the Earth ) .
Selenium is found impurely in metal sulfide ores , where it  partially   replaces  the  गंधक  .
Commercially , selenium is produced  as  a byproduct in  the   शोधन  of these ores , most often during copper production .
Minerals that are pure  selenide  or selenate  यौगिकों   हैं  known , but are rare .
The chief commercial uses for selenium today are  in  glassmaking and  in  pigments .
Selenium is a semiconductor and is used in photocells .
Uses in electronics , once important , have been mostly supplanted by silicon semiconductor devices .
Selenium  continues   to   be  used in a few types of DC power surge protectors and one type of fluorescent quantum dot .
Selenium salts are toxic in large amounts , but trace amounts are necessary for cellular function in many organisms , including all animals .
Selenium is a component of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase and  thioredoxin  reductase ( which  indirectly  reduce certain oxidized molecules in animals  और  some plants ) .
It is also  मिला  in  तीन  deiodinase enzymes , which convert one thyroid hormone to another .
Selenium requirements  in  plants differ by species , with some plants  requiring  relatively large  amounts  , and others apparently requiring none .
The United States presidential election of 2008 was  the  56th quadrennial presidential election .
It was held on Tuesday , November 4 , 2008 .
Democrat Barack Obama , then the junior Senator  इससे  Illinois , defeated Republican  जॉन   मैक्केन  , the senior Senator from Arizona .
As the campaign progressed  ,  the War  in  Iraq and outgoing Republican President George  W.  Bush had become increasingly unpopular  ,  and the major-party candidates ran on a platform of change and reform  .
Domestic policy and the economy  आखिरकार  emerged  as  the main themes in the last few months of the election campaign  बाद  the onset of the worst recession since the 1930s .
Obama  होता  go on to win a decisive victory over McCain in both the electoral and popular vote  .
Obama received the most votes for a presidential candidate in American history , and  जीती   the  popular and electoral  vote  by the largest margin in 12 years , as well as the largest percentage of the popular vote for a Democrat in  nearly  a half-century .
This was the first U.S. presidential election in which an  अफ़्रीकी  American was elected  ,  having also been the first in which an African American won the nomination of either major party  .
This  चुनाव  was also notable for being the first time in U.S. history that both major party candidates were sitting U.S . Senators , only the third time ( after 1920 and 1960 ) that any sitting U.S .  सीनेटर  was elected president ,  और  only the second time that the winning President  और  Vice President ( Obama  और  Biden ) were both sitting  u.s  . Senators .
This was  भी  the first election since 1952 in which neither  of  the major parties ' nominees  थी   the  incumbent  अध्यक्ष  or Vice President .
The Sovereign Prince or Princess of Monaco is the reigning monarch and head  of  state of  the  Principality of Monaco .
All princes or princesses have officially taken  the   नाम  of the House of Grimaldi ,  लकिन  have belonged to various other houses ( Goyon de Matignon , Polignac ) in male line .
the  reigning Prince is Albert II  .
Visualization of fragmentation  और  then of defragmentation
In the maintenance of file systems , defragmentation is a process  कि  reduces the amount of fragmentation .
it  does this by  physically  organizing the contents  of  the mass storage device used to store files into the smallest number of contiguous regions ( fragments ) .
It also attempts to create larger regions of free  स्पेस   using  compaction to impede the return of fragmentation .
कुछ  defragmentation  उपयोगिताएँ  try to keep smaller files within a single directory  साथ  , as they are often accessed in  अनुक्रम  .
Defragmentation  is  advantageous and relevant to file systems on electromechanical disk drives .
The movement of the hard drive  's  read/write heads over  अलग  areas of the disk  जब  accessing fragmented files is slower , compared to accessing  the  entire contents of a non-fragmented file  sequentially  without moving the  read/write  heads to  तलाश  other fragments .
A  service-level  agreement ( SLA ) is a  भाग  of a service contract where a service is formally  पारिभाषित  .
In practice , the term  sla   is  sometimes used to refer to the contracted delivery time ( of the  सेवा  or performance ) .
As an example , internet service providers will commonly include service level agreements  भीतर  the terms of their contracts with customers to define the level ( s ) of service being sold in plain language terms .
in  this case the SLA will typically have a technical definition in terms of mean time between  असफलताओं  ( MTBF ) , mean time to repair or mean time to recovery ( MTTR ) ; various data  दरों  ; throughput ; jitter ; or similar measurable details .
Union Station is a former shopping mall in Union City , Georgia , in southwest metro Atlanta adjacent to Interstate  85  .
After new ownership and renovations in 2006  ,  the name was changed from Shannon Southpark Mall in 2007 to Union Station Mall .
A previous renovation was  किया  in the late  1990s  .
The mall has been closed since November 2010 .
This map shows the contiguous United States and , in insets at the lower  बाएँ  , the two  राज्य  that are not contiguous .
The contiguous United States are the 48 adjoining U.S. states  on  the continent of North America that are south of Canada and north of Mexico , plus the District of Columbia  .
The term  excludes   the  states of Alaska and  हवाई  , and all off-shore U.S. territories and possessions , such as Puerto Rico .
Together , the 48 contiguous states and D.C.  occupy  a  संयुक्त  area of , which is 1.58 % of  the  total surface  क्षेत्रफल   of   the  Earth .
Of  इस  , is land , composing 83.65 % of U.S.  जमीन  area .
Officially ,  is  water area , composing 62.66 % of the nation 's water  क्षेत्रफल  .
The 2010 census population was 306,675,006  ,  composing  99.33  % of  the  nation 's population , and  a  density of  103.639  inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2  )  , compared to 87.264/sq mi (  33.692/km2  ) for the  स्वदेश  as a whole .
`` Why '' is the  शीर्षक  of a song recorded by American country band Rascal Flatts .
It is the third single from their sixth studio album  ,  Unstoppable .
It was released to radio stations on September 29 , 2009 and  debuted   at  #  44   on  the U.S . Billboard US Billboard  hot  Country Songs chart for the week of October  10  , 2009 .
it  was written by Rob Mathes and Allen Shamblin .
Utilization management is the evaluation of the appropriateness , medical need and efficiency of health care services procedures and facilities according to  स्थापित  criteria or guidelines and under the provisions of an applicable health benefits plan .
Typically it includes new activities or decisions based upon the analysis of a case .
Utilization management describes proactive procedures , including discharge planning , concurrent planning , pre-certification and clinical case appeals .
It also covers proactive processes , such as concurrent clinical reviews and peer reviews , as well as appeals introduced by the provider  ,  payer or  रोगी  .
As pre-certification and concurrent review  of  cases grew , utilization management spun out of utilization  पुनर्विलोकन  .
While not synonymous , health care professionals tend to use the terms as interchangeable .
The difference is utilization management  is   और  intends to manage health care cases efficiently and cost effectively before and during health care administration .
Utilization review is more considering whether health care was appropriately applied  बाद  it was administered  .
There are four basic  तकनीकों  in utilization management:
Demand Management
Utilization Review
Case Management
Disease Management
The Outsiders is a coming-of-age  अनोखा  by S. E. Hinton  ,  first published in 1967 by Viking Press .
Hinton  थी   15  when she started writing the novel , but did most of  the  work when she was sixteen and a junior in high school .
Hinton was 18 when the book  थी  published .
The book follows two  प्रतिद्वंद्वी  groups , the Greasers and the Socs  (  pronounced by the author as  ,  short for Socials  )  , who are divided  by  their socioeconomic status .
the  book takes  प्लेस  in Tulsa , Oklahoma , in 1965 ,  लकिन   it  is  never  stated in the book .
A film adaptation  थी  produced in 1983 , and  a  little-known short-lived television series appeared in 1990 , picking up  जहाँ  the movie left off .
The United States  हाउस  of Representatives is one of the two  घरों  of the United States Congress  (  a bicameral legislature ) .
It is frequently referred to as  the  House .
The other house is the Senate .
The composition and powers of the House  हैं  established in Article One of the United States Constitution  .
The major power of the House is to pass  संघीय  legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the Senate and further agreed to by  the   u.S.   अध्यक्ष  before becoming law ( unless  दोनो  the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with  a  two-thirds majority in each chamber ) .
The House has several exclusive powers : the  शक्ति  to initiate revenue bills , to impeach officials , and to elect the U.S. President in case  वहीँ  is no majority in the  चुनावी  College .
Each U.S.  राज्य  is represented in the House in  proportion  to its population but  is  entitled to at least one representative .
The  सबसे  populous state , California , currently has  53  representatives .
The total number of voting  प्रतिनिधि  is fixed by law at 435 .
Each representative serves for a two-year term .
The Speaker of the United States House of  प्रतिनिधि  , who presides over  the  chamber , is elected by the members of the House , and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic  caucus   or   the  House Republican Conference , whichever party has more voting members .
The House  meets  in the south wing of the United States Capitol .
A supply  कड़ी  is actually a complex and dynamic supply and demand network .
(  cf . Wieland/Wallenburg , 2011 )
a  supply chain is a system of organizations ,  लोगों  ,  क्रियाएँ  , information , and  संसाधन  involved in  चलती  a product or service from supplier to customer .
Supply chain activities transform natural resources , raw materials , and components into  a  finished product that is delivered to the end customer .
In sophisticated supply chain  प्रणालियों  , used products may re-enter the supply  कड़ी  at any point where residual value is recyclable .
Supply chains link value  जंजीरों  .
`` Purple Haze '' is a song written and recorded by Jimi Hendrix  in   1967   ,  released as the second single by The  जिमि  Hendrix  अनुभव  in both the United Kingdom and the United States .
It later appeared on the American  संस्करण   of  the band 's 1967 album Are You Experienced .
`` Purple Haze '' has become one of the `` archetypical psychedelic drug songs of  the  sixties  ''  .
`` Purple Haze 's ''  गिटार  virtuosic techniques would be emulated by many metal guitarists .
A close  up  picture of  a  rhinoceros skin .
Skin is  the  soft outer covering of vertebrates .
Other animal coverings such as the arthropod exoskeleton have different developmental origin  ,  structure and chemical composition .
The adjective cutaneous means `` of the  स्किन  ''  (  from Latin cutis , skin ) .
In mammals  ,   the   स्किन  is the largest  अंग  of the  integumentary  system made up of multiple layers of ectodermal tissue  ,  and guards the  underlying   मांसपेशियां  , bones , ligaments and internal organs .
Skin of a  अलग  nature exists  in  amphibians , reptiles , and birds .
सब  mammals have some hair on their skin , even marine  स्तनधारियों  which appear to be hairless .
The skin interfaces with the environment and is the first line of defense from  बाह्य  factors .
For example , the skin plays a key role in protecting the body against pathogens and excessive water loss .
Its other functions are insulation , temperature  विनियमन  , sensation , and the production of vitamin D folates .
Severely damaged skin may heal by forming scar tissue .
This is sometimes discoloured and depigmented .
The  मोटाई  of skin also varies from location to location on an organism .
In humans for  उदाहरण  , the skin located under the eyes and around the eyelids  is  the thinnest skin  in  the body at  0.5  mm thick , and is one of the first areas to show signs of aging such  as  `` crows feet  ''  and wrinkles .
the  skin on the palms and the soles of the feet is 4 mm  मोटा  and the thickest skin in the body .
Fur is dense  बाल  .
Primarily , fur augments the insulation  the  skin provides but can also serve as a secondary sexual characteristic or as camouflage .
On  कुछ  animals , the skin is very hard  और  thick , and can be processed to create leather .
Reptiles and  मछली  have  मुश्किल  protective scales on their skin for protection , and birds have hard feathers , all made of tough β- keratins .
उभयचर   स्किन  is not a strong barrier to passage of chemicals and is often subject to osmosis and diffusive forces .
For example , a frog sitting in an anesthetic solution would be sedated quickly , as the chemical diffuses through its skin .
Thomas Scott
The Rev . Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential preacher and author who is principally known for  उसके  best-selling work A Commentary On The Whole  बाइबल  and The  फ़ोर्स   of  Truth , and as one of the  संस्थापकों  of the Church Missionary Society .
Daniel Radcliffe , who portrays Harry  कुम्हार  , has been the icon of  the  film series since the release of the first film in 2001 .
Some of the most renowned actors of the United Kingdom and Ireland  have  voiced or portrayed characters appearing  in  the Harry Potter film series based on the book series by J. K. Rowling .
Daniel Radcliffe , Rupert Grint and Emma Watson have played  हैरी  Potter  ,  Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger in all the  films  .
When they were cast only Radcliffe had  previously  acted in a film .
Complementing  उन्हें  on screen are such actors as Helena Bonham  कार्टर  , Jim Broadbent , John Cleese , Robbie Coltrane ,  warwick  Davis , Ralph Fiennes , Michael Gambon , Brendan Gleeson , Richard Griffiths , Richard Harris  ,  John Hurt , Jason Isaacs , Miriam Margolyes , Helen McCrory , Gary Oldman , Alan Rickman , Fiona Shaw ,  मैगी   स्मिथ  ,  टिमोथी  Spall , Imelda Staunton , David Thewlis , Emma Thompson , and Julie  walters  , among others .
Thirteen actors have appeared as the same character in all eight films of the franchise .
Some well-known British actors who have not appeared in the series  ,  are asked in jest why they have not been  डाल  .
When David Yates was  directing   the  fifth  फिल्मी  , Bill Nighy , who had  previously  collaborated with Yates on three of his television projects  ,  said that he joked with Yates  कि  maybe now he would n't be the only actor in England who had n't been in Harry Potter  .
`` But nobody called  ''  ,  nighy  added .
But in 2009  ,  Yates cast Nighy as Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour in Deathly Hallows .
Nighy said , `` I am no longer the only English actor not to be in  हैरी  Potter and I am very pleased .  ''
Jude Law  रै  quipped ,  ``  Nobody 's  पूछा  me .
I was a bit too old for Harry '' .
When a reporter compared  potions  professor Horace  slughorn  's obsession with famous names to the series ' connection to `` every notable British actor , '' Jim Broadbent ,  जो  plays Slughorn said , `` Well , not every  कर्ता  gets invited .
I  जान  some who are still waiting . ''
With the exception of Chris Columbus , each  निदेशक  has had  a   कैमियो  appearance in his respective film  :  Alfonso Cuarón  appears  as a wizard holding a candle during a scene at The Three Broomsticks  in  Prisoner of Azkaban ; Mike Newell is heard briefly as the radio presenter in Frank Bryce 's house in  प्याला  of Fire ; and David  येट्स  features as a wizard within a magical  चलती  portrait in Order of the Phoenix .
Producer David Heyman also  makes  a cameo appearance  as  a wizard featured  भीतर   a  magical moving portrait in the  तीसरा  film , Prisoner of Azkaban .
J. K. Rowling  दिया  a speech during the world  प्रीमियर  of the  फाइनल  film in the series— Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 —on 7 July  2011  in London , England .
She announced that she could  never  have dreamt of the talented actors and actresses who have appeared in all the Harry Potter movies .
Rowling also announced that there are seven Harry Potter film series cast members , who  वो   refers  to as `` The Big Seven '' , they are Daniel Radcliffe ,  रुपर्ट  Grint , Emma Watson , Tom Felton , Matthew Lewis  ,  Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright .
The list below  is   sorted  by film and character , as some characters have been portrayed by multiple actors .
Key
( v ) indicates the  कर्ता  or actress lent only his or her voice  लिये  his or  उसके  film character
(  y ) indicates the actor or  अभिनेत्री  portrayed the role in a flashback scene  or  when the character was young  .
( f ) indicates the actor or actress did not appear in any  नई  footage  लिये  the film ; footage from an earlier  फिल्मी   or  films was used .
A light grey cell ( such as the one in the `` Charity Burbage '' row  in  the `` Philosopher 's Stone '' column ) indicates the character was not in the film adaptation  .
A twelve-step program is a set of guiding principles ( accepted by members as 'spiritual principles , ' based on the approved  साहित्य  ) outlining a course of action for recovery from , compulsion  ,  or other behavioral problems .
Originally proposed  by  Alcoholics Anonymous ( AA ) as a method of recovery from alcoholism , the Twelve  कदम  were first published in the book Alcoholics Anonymous : The Story of How More Than One Hundred Men Have Recovered  इससे   alcoholism  in 1939 .
The method was then adapted and became the  न्यास  of other twelve-step programs .
As summarized by the American Psychological Association , the process involves the following:
admitting that one can  नहीं  control  एक  's addiction or compulsion ;
recognizing a higher  शक्ति  that can give  शक्ति  ;
examining past errors with the help of a sponsor ( experienced member ) ;
making amends for these errors ;
learning  to  live a new life with a new code of behavior ;
helping  अन्य  who suffer from the same addictions or compulsions .
गवाह  impeachment , in the law  of  evidence of the United States  ,  is the process of calling into question the credibility of an individual who is testifying in a trial .
The Federal Rules of Evidence contain the rules  शासी  impeachment in federal courts .
Party leaders  और  whips of  the  United States House of Representatives are elected by their respective parties in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot and  हैं  also known as  मंजिल  leaders .
The U.S. House of Representatives does  नहीं  officially use the term  ``  Minority Leader '' although the media frequently do .
The House instead  उपयोग  the  शर्तें  `` Republican Leader '' or `` Democratic Leader '' depending on which party holds a minority of seats .
The current House Majority Leader is Republican Eric Cantor  ,  while the current House Minority Leader is Democrat Nancy Pelosi .
The current House Majority Whip is  रिपब्लिकन  Kevin  मैकार्थी   ,  while the current House Minority Whip is Democrat Steny  hoyer   .
following  the outbreak of World War I in 1914 , the German Army opened the Western Front  by  first  आक्रमणकारी  Luxembourg and Belgium  ,  then gaining military control of important industrial regions in France .
The tide of the  अग्रिम  was dramatically  turned  with the Battle of the  marne  .
Following the race to the sea , both sides dug in along a meandering line of  fortified   trenches   ,  stretching  इससे  the North  समुद्र  to the Swiss frontier with France .
This line remained essentially unchanged for most of the war .
Between 1915  और  1917 there were several major offensives along this front .
The  हमले  employed massive artillery bombardments and massed infantry advances .
However ,  a  combination of entrenchments , machine gun  nests  , barbed wire , and artillery repeatedly inflicted severe casualties on the attackers and counterattacking defenders  .
As a result ,  no  significant advances were made .
Among the most costly of  ये  offensives were  the   बैटल  of Verdun with a combined [ estimated ] 700,000 dead , the Battle of the Somme with more than [ an estimated ] million casualties , and the Battle of Passchendaele with roughly [ an estimated ] 600,000 casualties .
In an effort to break the deadlock , this front saw the introduction  of  new military technology , including poison  गैस  , aircraft and tanks .
But  it  was only after the adoption of improved tactics that some degree of mobility was restored .
The German Spring Offensive of 1918 was made possible  by  the  सन्धि  of Brest-Litovsk that marked the end  of  the conflict on the Eastern Front .
Using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics , the German armies  उन्नत  nearly to the west , which marked the deepest  अग्रिम  by either side since 1914 and very nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough .
In spite of the  generally  stagnant nature of this  सामने  , this  थिएटर  would prove decisive .
The inexorable advance of the Allied armies  दौरान  the  दूसरी   हाफ  of 1918  persuaded  the German commanders that defeat was inevitable , and the government was forced to sue  लिये  conditions of  an  armistice .
The terms of peace were agreed upon with the signing of the Treaty of  versailles  in 1919 .
The following is a list  of  recurring and minor  वर्ण  in  the  Disney Channel Original Series  the  Suite Life of Zack & Cody .
These characters were regularly rotated , often disappearing for long periods during the series .
The following list of characters has been sorted alphabetically , by first name .
Some of the characters had no last name  और  most were commonly referred to by their first name so this appeared to be  the   सबसे  logical method .
in  the case of Chef Paolo , who had no known first name  ,  they have been listed by  शीर्षक  .
the  First Lady of the United States ( FLOTUS ) is the hostess of the White  हाउस  .
Because this  स्थिति  is traditionally filled by the wife of the President  of  the United States , the title is most often applied to the wife of a sitting president .
The current First Lady  is  Michelle Obama .
After her husband  बराक   ओबामा  was  re-elected  on November 6 ,  2012  , she is scheduled to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Septic shock is a medical condition as a  परिणाम  of severe infection and sepsis  ,  though the  microbe  may be systemic or localized to a particular  साईट  .
It can cause multiple organ dysfunction syndrome ( formerly known  as  multiple organ failure ) and death .
Its most common victims are children , immunocompromised individuals , and the elderly , as their  प्रतिरक्षा  systems can not deal with the infection as effectively as those of healthy adults .
Frequently , patients  कष्ट  from septic shock are cared  लिये  in intensive care units .
The mortality rate from septic shock is approximately 25–50 % .
Kevin Brereton ( born February 20 , 1972 )  ,   बेहतर  known by his stage name k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ) ,  is  a Canadian rapper , singer , songwriter and record producer .
His given name may also be cited as  kheaven  , a spelling he later adopted .
The alias `` k-os '' , spelled with a lower case `` k '' , was intended to be  कम  aggressive than the pseudonyms of other rappers whose names were  सब  upper  मामला  , such as KRS-One .
It is an acronym for `` Knowledge of Self  ,  '' although  in  a later interview he said that it  originally  stood for `` Kevin 's Original  ध्वनि  . '' k-os  '  music incorporates a wide variety of music genres , including rap , funk , rock , and reggae  .
The  गीत  frequently focus on promoting a ``  धनात्मक  message '' while at times expressing criticism of mainstream hip hop culture 's obsession  साथ  money , fame and glorification of violence  .
A  संगीतकार  as well as  a  producer , k-os has written and produced nearly every part of all four of his albums .
k-os usually performs with a  सजीव  band , something that is uncommon  in   the  hip hop genre .
He sometimes  plays  guitar and keyboard both during  सजीव   प्रदर्शन  and in the studio .
k-os received his first musical exposure with the single `` Musical Essence '' , released in 1993 .
After the release of his second  सिंगल  `` Rise Like  the  Sun '' in 1996 , he withdrew from the industry because he was dissatisfied with his musical style .
He  reappeared   briefly  in 1999 and released his debut album Exit in 2002 .
The album received positive reviews but sold relatively  few  copies .
He released his second album Joyful  विद्रोह  in 2004 , which received platinum status  in  Canada  .
A third album , , was released in 2006  और  also went platinum .
His fourth album , Yes !
, was released in 2009  .
His fifth album BLack on BLonde was released in 2013 .
The  आधिकारिक   2007  edition of the UCC .
Even the confidential rough  मसौदा  of the UCC were saved and published  as  a 10-volume set  .
The  वर्दी  Commercial Code ( UCC or the Code ) ,  पहला   प्रकाशित  in 1952 , is one of a number of uniform acts that have been promulgated in conjunction with efforts to harmonize the law of sales and other commercial transactions in  सब   50  states within the United States of America .
Multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of climbing routes with one or more stops at  a  belay  स्टेशन  .
Each  खण्ड   of  actual climbing between stops at  the  belay stations is called a pitch .
The leader ascends  the  pitch ,  रखकर  gear and stopping to anchor themselves to the belay station .
The reason for the stops can be determined by choice , convention or necessity .
लिये  example:
The rope is too  छोटी  to do the entire route in one  पिच  (  necessity  ) .
The leader has run out  of  protective gear ( necessity  )   .
There is  a  convenient  protectable  ledge , or fixed bolts  लगाई  by previous  चढना  , at the location for a belay station ( convention ) .
the  leader chooses to rest or  एक्सचेंज   लीड  before the next section of the climb  (  choice ) .
The general purpose of  ये  stops  is  to allow  the  second to ascend to the point of the lead climber while collecting the protective gear from the route in the course of the lead climber 's ascent .
At the belay station , the protective gear is collected  ,  possibly exchanged to a new leader , and the leader of the  अगला  pitch  ascends  the route .
A diagram showing an I Formation  on  offense and a 4-3 Formation on defense
In American football  ,  each team has eleven  खिलाड़ी  on the field at one time .
The specific role that a  खिलाड़ी   takes  on the field is called their position .
Under the modern rules of American football , teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions , that is teams may change any number of players after any  खेल  .
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players ,  the  offense ( the team with the ball , who is trying to score ) , the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from  स्कोरिंग  , and to take the ball from them ) , and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ) .
Within those platoons  ,   विभिन्न  specific positions exist depending on what the player 's main job is .
The  नियंत्रित  Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted  into  law by the Congress of  the   संयुक्त  States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture , importation , possession , use and distribution of certain substances is regulated .
The  अधिनियम   भी  served as the national implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs .
The  विधान  created five Schedules ( classifications ) , with  varying  qualifications for a substance to be included in each  .
Two federal agencies , the Drug  प्रवर्तन   प्रशासन  and the Food and  ड्रग  Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the  विभिन्न  schedules ,  हालांकि  the statute passed by Congress created  the  initial listing , and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha  reid  Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000  ,  which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently  स्वीकृत  medical use in treatment in  the  United States , and international treaties .
The Wayne Route 23 Transit Center is a New  जर्सी  Transit park-and-ride station in Wayne , New Jersey  साथ  the Montclair-Boonton Line that provides bus service to New York  नगर  and various other points in the area as well as Montclair-Boonton  लकीर   ट्रैन  service to New York , Hoboken  ,  and intermediate points along the line between Hackettstown and Montclair State University .
It is  स्तिथ  off of the southbound lanes of New Jersey Route  23   on  West Belt Road , near the interchange where Route 23 , Interstate 80 , and U.S. Route 46 meet , across from the Willowbrook  मॉल  .
The station opened in January 2008  और  has 1,000 parking spaces .
New Jersey Transit  intends  for this combined rail and bus station to become an `` interceptor station , '' that will  सहायता   relieve  the habitual congestion at the West Belt Road Interchange , where the three major highways meet .
In addition , the construction of the station was meant to also ease the congestion at  कया  was then Route  23  Park & Ride , a bus depot on Route 23 North that has since been renamed Mother 's Park & Ride , and the Willowbrook Mall Park & Ride ;  the  now-Mother 's site had  सीमित  parking while NJT was  having  trouble with overfull parking  क्षेत्रों  at Willowbrook .
The Wayne Township bus garage is located on the opposite side of  रूट  23 .
There has been a proposal to build a parking deck  साथ  another thousand spots and develop the land at the station .
In  जोड  to Montclair-Boonton trains  ,  the Transit Center is served by the following New Jersey Transit bus lines:
75  to  Newark Penn Station  और  Butler
194 to Port Authority  बस  Terminal  और  Butler/Newfoundland
198 to Port Authority Bus Terminal and William Paterson University
324 to Port Authority and Wayne Route 23
748 to Willowbrook  मॉल  and Paterson
The at sign @ is also commonly  पुकारा   the  at symbol , ampersat  ,  apetail or  वाणिज्यिक  at in English—and less commonly a wide range of other terms  .
The fact that there is no single word in English for the  प्रतीक  has prompted some writers  to  use the French arobase or Spanish and Portuguese arroba—or to coin new words such as asperand , ampersat—but none of these has achieved wide currency .
Originally an  हिसाब  and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate of '' ( e.g . 7 widgets  @  $ 2 = $ 14 ) , it was not included on the keyboard of the earliest commercially successful typewriters , but was on at least one 1889 model and the very successful Underwood models from the `` Underwood  no  . 5 '' in 1900 onward .
It is now universally included  on  computer keyboards .
In recent years , its meaning  रै  grown  to  include the sense of being `` located at , '' `` and , '' or `` directed  at  '' , especially in email addresses and social media  ,   विशेषकर  Twitter .
The mark is encoded at .
The Catcher in the Rye  is  a  1951   अनोखा   by  J. D. Salinger .
Originally published for adults , it has since become popular  साथ  adolescent readers  लिये  its themes of teenage angst and alienation .
It has been translated into almost all of the world 's major languages .
Around 250,000 copies are sold each year with total sales of more than 65 million  किताबे  .
The novel 's protagonist and antihero , Holden Caulfield , has become an icon for teenage rebellion .
The novel was included  on  Times 2005 list of the 100 best English-language novels written since 1923 , and it was named by Modern Library and its readers as one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century .
It has been frequently challenged in the United States and other countries for its liberal use of profanity and portrayal of sexuality .
it  also deals with complex issues of  पहचान  , belonging , connection , and alienation .
skeletal  muscles homo sapiens
This is a table  of  muscles of the human anatomy .
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human , and almost every muscle constitutes one part of  a  pair  of  identical bilateral muscles , found on both sides , resulting in approximately  320  pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the  सटीक  number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles  differently  , e.g . regarding what is defined as different  भाग  of a single muscle or as several muscles .
Examples range from 640 to 850 .
The muscles  of  the human  देह  can be categorized into a number of groups which include  मांसपेशियां   relating   to  the head  और  neck , muscles of  the  torso or trunk , muscles  of  the  अपर  limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs  .
The action refers to the action of each  मांसपेशी  from the standard anatomical position  .
In other positions , other actions may be  performed  .
Bad Girls Club  (  BGC ) is an American reality television series  निर्मित  by Jonathan Murray for the Oxygen television station .
The show centers on  सात  feisty  और  mischievous women with different backgrounds and personalities , who have a number  of  psychological and behavioral  समस्याएं  .
They are  introduced  to the show off their pernicious behavior and accomplish specific goals  .
The cast , deemed `` bad girls '' , enjoy a luxurious lifestyle in a fine mansion for three  महीने  ,  दौरान  which they must obey specified rules .
उनके  lives inside –  और  outside – of the house are chronicled and recorded by the production team  .
The Bad Girls Club is broadcast in five countries (  संयुक्त  States , Netherlands  ,   ऑस्ट्रेलिया  ,  हंगेरियाई  , and Sweden  )  .
it  has received negative reviews from critics , who believe the show  promotes  violence by adolescent viewers .
Furthermore , several cast members made controversial remarks which outraged many viewers .
The format of the show has  बदला  from  जल्दी   सीज़न  .
If a `` bad girl '' breaks a rule , she is evicted from the show and , if it is  जल्दी  in the season , replaced by a new `` bad girl '' .
There have been nine complete seasons of The Bad  लड़कियों  Club , with the tenth season currently airing .
The fourth season had the  उच्चतम  ratings in the show  's  history , becoming its ``  भेदन  season '' .
There have been three spin-offs of The Bad Girls Club .
One of  उन्हें  , Love Games : Bad Girls Need Love Too , where past cast members seek true love , has gained high ratings .
Oxygen has also released a mobile game , comic  स्ट्रिप   और  merchandise to promote the  दिखाएँ  .
Of the  92  contestants , Kerry Harvick ( of season one ) was a successful country singer before the  दिखाएँ  .
Tanisha Thomas ( of  ऋतु  two )  बाद  hosted Oxygen  's  OxygenLive !
and the subsequent seasons of  प्रेम  Games : Bad Girls  need  Love Too .
Thomas , who has been dubbed  the  `` godmother '' to all contestants , has her own television documentary  हकदार  Tanisha Gets Married .
As of Season 8 she 's been the host of the reunion specials  .
The Iowa Senate is the upper house of the Iowa General Assembly .
There are 50 seats in the Iowa Senate , representing 50 single-member districts across  the  state with populations  of  approximately 60,927 per constituency , .
Each Senate district is composed of two  हाउस   जिले  .
The Senate meets at the Iowa  राज्य  Capitol in Des Moines .
Unlike  the  lower house , the Iowa House of Representatives , Senators  serve  four-year terms , with half of the Senate staggered for re-election every two years .
There  हैं  no term limits for the Senate .
Mechanical repair
Maintenance , repair , and operations ( MRO ) or maintenance  ,  repair ,  और  overhaul involves fixing any sort of mechanical , plumbing or electrical device should  it  become out  of  order or broken ( known as repair  ,  unscheduled or  casualty  maintenance ) .
It also includes performing routine actions which keep the device in working order (  ज्ञात  as scheduled maintenance ) or prevent trouble from  arising  ( preventive maintenance  )  .
MRO may be defined as , `` All actions which have the objective of retaining or restoring an item in or to a state in which it  can  perform its required function .
The actions include the combination of all technical and corresponding administrative , managerial , and supervision actions . ''
MRO operations can be  categorised  by whether the product remains the  प्रॉपर्टी  of the customer ,  i.e  . a service is being  offered  ,  or  whether the product is bought by the reprocessing organisation and sold to any customer wishing to make the purchase ( Guadette , 2002 ) .
In the former case it may  be  a backshop operation within a larger organisation or smaller operation  .
The former of these represents a closed loop supply chain and  प्रायः  has the scope of maintenance , repair or of the product .
The latter of the  categorisations  is an open loop supply chain and is typified  by  refurbishment and remanufacture .
the  main characteristic of the closed loop system  is  that the demand for a product is matched with the supply  of  a used product .
Neglecting asset write-offs and exceptional activities the total population of the product  between  the customer and the  सेवा  provider remains constant .
Prince William  ,  Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 )  ,  is the elder son of Charles , Prince of Wales , and Diana , Princess of Wales , and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is second in the line of succession  ,  behind his father , to the thrones  of  sixteen  स्वतंत्र  sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the  संयुक्त  Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , Jamaica , Barbados , The Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon  आइलैंड्स   ,  Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines ,  बेलीज़  , Antigua and Barbuda , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was educated at four  स्कूलों  in the United Kingdom and obtained a degree  इससे  the University  of  St Andrews  .
he  spent parts of a gap year in Chile , Belize , Tanzania , and Kenya  जहाँ  he has lived and holidayed several times .
Prince William has also taken Kiswahili studies at  विश्वविद्यालयों  in Kenya and Tanzania .
He was commissioned as a  लेफ्टिनेंट   in   the  Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving with his brother Prince Harry —and , two years later  ,  earned his  विंग्स   by  completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell .
in  2009 , he transferred to the Royal Air Force , was promoted  to  Flight  लेफ्टिनेंट  and underwent helicopter flying training in  अनुक्रम  to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force  .
In 2010 , he completed his general  और  special-to-type helicopter training and went on to RAF  घाटी  on No . 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter .
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend  ,  Catherine Middleton , on  29  April 2011 at Westminster  ऐबी  .
घंटों  prior to his wedding , Prince William was created Duke  of  Cambridge , Earl of Strathearn ,  और  Baron Carrickfergus .
DeAndre Cortez Way ( born  जुलाई  28 , 1990 ) , better known by his stage name Soulja  लड़के  Tell 'Em , or simply Soulja Boy , is an American rapper , record producer ,  कर्ता  , and entrepreneur .
In September 2007 , his  सिंगल  `` Crank That ( Soulja Boy ) `` reached number one on the Billboard  hot   100  .
The single was initially self-published  on  the internet ,  और   it  later became a number-one hit in  the  United States  लिये  seven non-consecutive weeks starting in September 2007 .
On August  17  Way was listed at # 18 on the Forbes  सूची  of Hip-Hop Cash Kings of 2010 earning $ 7 million for that  साल  .
Way has currently  released  three studio albums and one independent album : his debut studio album Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was certified platinum by the RIAA .
However , his next two albums , iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and The DeAndre Way  (   2010  ) did not match the commercial success of his  डेब्यू  , the latter  तभी  selling 100,000 copies , despite the success of several singles across  दोनो  albums , such as `` Kiss Me Thru the  फोन  `` and `` Turn My Swag On `` ( iSouljaBoyTellem ) and `` Pretty Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ) .
इस  was mainly due to negotiation problems with  interscope  Records which meant a limited amount of  रिकॉर्ड  were made  उपलब्धियाँ  to the public .
As of 2011 , Way has confirmed he  is  working on his fourth studio album , entitled USA  ड्रे  ,  जिससे   होगा  be released in 2013 .
The electron transport chain in the mitochondrion is the  साईट  of oxidative  phosphorylation  in eukaryotes  .
The NADH and succinate generated in the citric acid cycle  हैं  oxidized , providing energy to  शक्ति  ATP synthase .
Photosynthetic electron  हस्तांतरण  chain of the thylakoid membrane .
An electron transport chain ( ETC ) couples electron transfer between an  इलेक्ट्रॉन  donor ( such as NADH ) and an electron acceptor (  ऐसे  as O2 ) with the transfer of H+ ions ( protons ) across a membrane  .
The resulting electrochemical proton gradient is used to generate chemical energy  in  the form of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) .
Electron transport chains are the cellular mechanisms used for extracting energy from sunlight in photosynthesis and also from redox reactions , such as the oxidation of  sugars  ( respiration ) .
In chloroplasts , light drives  the  conversion of water to oxygen and NADP+ to NADPH with transfer of  H+  ions across chloroplast membranes .
In  mitochondria  , it is the conversion of oxygen to water , NADH to NAD+ and succinate to fumarate that are required to generate the proton gradient  .
Electron transport chains are major sites of premature electron leakage to oxygen , generating  superoxide  and potentially resulting in increased oxidative stress .
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked  as  Conzip , Ryzolt , Ultracet  ,  Ultram in the USA  ,  Ralivia , Zytram XL Durella { CR-100/200 mg } in Canada or Adolonta in Spain ) is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain .
The drug has a wide range  of  applications , including  उपचार  of rheumatoid arthritis , restless legs  सिंड्रोम  , motor neurone disease and fibromyalgia .
It  थी  launched and marketed as Tramal  by   the  German pharmaceutical company  grünenthal  GmbH in 1977 .
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid receptor  agonist  that also induces serotonin release and inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine .
Tramadol is metabolized to O-desmethyltramadol  ,  a significantly more potent μ-opioid agonist .
Tramadol and its major  metabolite  ( s ) are  विशिष्ट  from other more potent opioid agonists by relative selectivity for μ-opioid receptors .
Bernard Lawrence `` Bernie '' Madoff (  ;  born April 29 ,  1938  ) is an American former stockbroker , investment advisor , financier , and  श्वेत   कॉलर  criminal .
He is the former non-executive  अध्यक्ष  of the NASDAQ stock market , and  the   admitted  operator of a Ponzi scheme that is considered to be the largest  वित्तीय  fraud in U.S. history  .
Madoff founded the  वॉल  Street firm Bernard L.  madoff  Investment Securities LLC in 1960 , and was its chairman until his arrest on  दिसम्बर  11 , 2008 .
The firm was one of the top market maker businesses on Wall Street , which  bypassed  ``  विशेषज्ञ  '' firms by directly executing orders over the counter  इससे  retail brokers .
He employed at the firm his brother Peter  as  Senior Managing Director and Chief Compliance Officer ; Peter has since been sentenced to 10 years in prison  .
Peter 's daughter Shana Madoff as the  कड़  's  नियम  and compliance officer and  attorney  , and  उसके  sons Andrew and Mark ( Mark committed suicide by hanging exactly two years after his father 's arrest ) .
On December 10 , 2008 , Madoff 's sons told authorities that their father had confessed to them that the asset management unit of his firm was a massive Ponzi scheme , and quoted him as describing it as `` one big  झूठ  . ''
The  following  day , FBI agents arrested Madoff and charged him with one  गिनती   of  securities fraud .
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) had  previously  conducted investigations into Madoff 's business practices , but did not uncover the massive fraud .
In March 2009 ,  madoff  pleaded guilty to 11 federal felonies and admitted to  turning  his wealth management business into a massive Ponzi scheme that defrauded thousands  of  investors of billions of dollars .
Madoff said he began the Ponzi scheme in the  जल्दी  1990s .
However , federal investigators believe the fraud began as early as the 1970s , and those  चार्ज  with recovering  the  missing money believe the investment operation may  never  have been legitimate .
The amount missing from client accounts , including fabricated gains , was almost  $  65 billion .
The court-appointed trustee estimated actual losses to  निवेशकों  of $ 18 billion .
On June 29 ,  2009  , he was sentenced to 150 years in prison , the maximum allowed .
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known  as  Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday  observed  in several countries to recognize the work of secretaries , administrative  assistants  , receptionists , and other administrative support professionals .
In North  अमेरिका  ,  it  is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last full week of  अप्रैल  ( April 24 in 2013 ) .
In France it is celebrated on  the  third Thursday  in  April (  अप्रैल  18 in 2013 ) .
In Australia it  is  celebrated on the first Friday in May
A  quasi-judicial  body is an entity such as an arbitrator or tribunal board , generally of a public administrative agency , which has powers and procedures resembling those of  a  court of  विधि  or judge , and which is obligated to objectively determine facts and draw conclusions  इससे  them so as to provide the basis of an official action  .
Such actions are able to remedy a situation or impose legal penalties , and may  affect  the  विधिक  rights ,  कर्तव्य  or privileges of specific parties .
Monument  of  Tycho Brahe  और  Johannes Kepler  in  Prague
Tycho Brahe  (  14 December 154624 October 1601 ) ,  born  Tyge Ottesen Brahe , was a Danish nobleman known for his accurate and comprehensive astronomical and planetary observations .
He was born in Scania  ,  then part of Denmark , now part of modern-day Sweden .
Tycho was  खूब  known in his lifetime as an  astronomer  and alchemist .
In his De nova stella ( On  the  new star ) of 1573 , he refuted the Aristotelian belief in an unchanging celestial realm .
His precise measurements indicated that `` new stars , '' ( stellae novae , now known as supernovae ) in particular that of 1572  ,  lacked the parallax expected in sub-lunar phenomena , and were  इसलिए  not `` atmospheric '' tailless comets as previously  believed  ,  लकिन  were above the atmosphere and moon .
Using similar  माप  he  दिखाया  that comets were also not atmospheric  phenomena  , as previously thought , and must pass through the supposedly `` immutable '' celestial spheres .
As an astronomer , Tycho worked to combine what he  देखी  as the geometrical benefits of the Copernican  प्रणाली  with the philosophical benefits of the Ptolemaic system into his own  मॉडल  of the universe , the Tychonic system .
Furthermore , he was the last of the major naked eye  खगोलशास्त्रियों  , working without telescopes for his observations .
Tycho Brahe  थी  granted an estate on the island of Hven and the funding to build the Uraniborg , an early research institute , where he built large astronomical instruments and took many careful measurements , and later Stjerneborg , underground  ,   जब   he  discovered that his instruments in the former were not sufficiently steady .
On the island ( on which he demonstrated  निरंकुश  character and behavior toward the residents  )   he  founded manufactories such as paper-making to  provide  material for printing his results .
After disagreements with the new Danish king Christian IV in 1597 , he was invited by the Bohemian  किंग  and Holy Roman emperor Rudolph II to Prague , where he became the official imperial astronomer .
He  निर्मित  the new  वेधशाला  at Benátky  nad   jizerou  .
Here  ,  from 1600 until his death in  1601   ,  he was assisted by Johannes Kepler who later used Tycho 's astronomical data to develop Kepler 's laws of planetary  गति  .
Guro District ( Guro-gu ) is a district of Seoul ,  दक्षिण  Korea , which was separated from  yeongdeungpo  District on April 1 , 1980 .
Located in the southwestern part of the city , where besides Yangcheon District and  geumcheon   ज़िला  Guro  ज़िला   रै  an important position as a transport link  जिससे  contains railroads , land routes from the rest of Seoul to the south of the country .
The Gyeongbu and Gyeongin railway lines connect Seoul to Busan  और  Incheon .
in  addition , Seoul Metropolitan Subway lines 1 , 2 , and 7 , and major  राजमार्गों  intersect in  guro  District .
the  name  guro  originates from the legend that nine ( ) old men ( Korean :  ro  ) enjoyed longevity in the  ज़िला  .
A digital industrial complex  is  located in Guro District .
the  Guro Digital Industrial Complex , which played  a  leading industrial role mainly with textile  निर्माण  , dressmaking and other labour-intensive industries in 1967 , has been rapidly changed into  an  IT  औद्योगिक  complex .
This complex played  a  pivotal role in the economic growth of the South Korea 's development  era  , referred to as the  ``  Miracle on the Han River `` , and also contributed 10 percent of national export in the 1970s .
Twenty-one percent of the  कुल  area of Guro District is a restricted zone to be used as a greenbelt with the only arboretum in Seoul .
The  मण्डल  is changing into a lively district as large labour-intensive  कारखानों  are moving from the area and  the  council is developing what it terms its four  zones   .
An `` e-government `` system  आधारित  on this hosted the international e-participation forum on February 7–9 , 2007 , with the participation of more than thirty-seven countries .
The forum was  शुभारम्भ  with the theme `` Promoting Democracy and Regional Development '' and twenty-five mayors including André Santini ( Issy-les-Moulineaux , France  )  , Kevin Foy  (  Chapel  हिल  , US ) ,  apirak  Kosayothin ( Bangkok , Thailand ) , Uvais Mohamed Emthiyas ( Colombo , Sri Lanka ) , and world experts such as Dr William H. Dutton ( Director of Oxford Internet Institute at the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Oxford ,  uk  ) and Dr Ari-Veiko Anttiroiko ( professor at the University of Tampere , Finland )  participated  in  the  forum  .
The Guro Declaration , adopted during the forum , aims to set up a portal site for e-government  विकास  and to establish a concrete project in order to bridge the  डिजिटल  divide among  the  world 's cities  .
This practice has been recognised for providing a new important step in the development of e-democracy .
The e-participation forum was a key factor for  guro  to play the leading role in bridging the  डिजिटल  divide among cities , to provide I.T . enterprises  स्तिथ  in Guro Digital Industrial Complex the opportunity to launch into the international market , to improve its image and become a global leader to concrete e-democracy .
The international e-participation forum on February 7–9 , 2007
a  wonton  (  also spelled wantan , wanton , or wuntun in transcription from Cantonese ; Mandarin : húndùn ) is a  प्रकार   of  dumpling commonly found in a number of Chinese  व्यंजन   .
Many people were involved in the invention of radio as we now know it .
Several possible methods of wireless communication were considered , including  आगमनात्मक  and capacitive induction and transmission through the ground , however the method used for radio today exclusively involves the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves  .
After early speculation on the subject , experimental work on the connection between electricity and magnetism began around 1820 with the work of Hans Christian Ørsted and  जारी  with the work of André-Marie Ampère , Joseph Henry , and Michael Faraday .
These investigations culminated in the  पूरा  theory of electromagnetism  विकसित  by James Clerk Maxwell .
This theory described the theoretical basis of the propagation of electromagnetic waves .
After Maxwell 's theory was published many people experimented with wireless communication , some  intentionally  using Maxwell 's theory some not .
It  is  considered likely  कि  the first intentional transmission of a signal by means of electromagnetic waves was performed  by  David Edward Hughes around 1880  ,  although this was  माना  to  be   प्रेरण  at the time .
The  पहला  systematic  और  unequivocal transmission of EM waves was performed by Heinrich Rudolf Hertz and  वर्णित  in  papers  published in 1887 and 1890 .
Hertz famously considered these  परिणाम  as  होने  of little practical value  .
After Hertz 's work many people were involved in the development of components and theory involved with the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves .
Others , notably Guglielmo Marconi  ,  were concerned with practical improvements and the commercial application of radio to wireless  telegraphy  .
Later on Reginald A. Fessenden became the first to send an audio signal by  अर्थात्  of electromagnetic waves .
Scurvy is  a   बीमारी  resulting from a deficiency of vitamin C , which is required for the synthesis  of  collagen in humans .
The chemical name for vitamin C , ascorbic acid ,  is  derived from the  लैटिन  name of scurvy , scorbutus , which  भी  provides the adjective scorbutic ( `` of , characterized by or having to do with  स्कर्वी  '' )  .
Scurvy often presents itself initially as symptoms of  malaise  and lethargy , followed by formation of spots on the skin , spongy gums , and bleeding from the mucous membranes .
Spots  हैं  most abundant on the thighs and legs , and a person with the ailment looks pale , feels depressed , and is partially immobilized  .
as  scurvy advances , there can be open  ,  suppurating wounds , loss of teeth , jaundice ,  ज्वर  , neuropathy and  मौत  .
Scurvy was at one time common among sailors , pirates and others aboard ships at sea longer than perishable  फल  and vegetables could  be  stored ( subsisting instead only on cured and  salted  meats and dried grains ) and by soldiers similarly  वंचित  of these foods for extended periods .
It was described by Hippocrates ( c.  460  BC–c . 380 BC ) , and herbal cures for scurvy have been known in many native cultures since prehistory  .
स्कर्वी  was one of the limiting factors of marine travel , often killing  विशाल  numbers of  the  passengers and crew on long-distance voyages .
This became a  significant  issue in  यूरोपीय  from the beginning of the modern era in the Age of Discovery in  the  15th century , continuing  to  play a significant role  through  World War I in the 20th  सदी  .
While today scurvy is known to be caused by a nutritional deficiency , until the isolation of vitamin C and direct evidence of its link to scurvy in 1932 , numerous theories and treatments were proposed , often on little or no experimental data .
This inconsistency is attributed to  the  lack of vitamin C  as  a distinct concept , an inability  to  reliably link different foods (  notably  present in fresh citrus , watercress , and organ meat ) to  स्कर्वी   .
An additional concept required to understand scurvy  थी  the degradation of vitamin C by exposure to air and copper and other transition metal salts such as those of iron , thus changing the links of foods to scurvy over time .
Treatment  by  fresh  खाना  , particularly citrus fruit , was periodically implemented ,  as  it had  महरूम  since antiquity .
However until the 1930s , treatment was inconsistent , with many ineffective treatments  प्रयुक्त  into  the  20th century .
It was a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy , James Lind who first proved it could be treated with citrus fruit in experiments he  वर्णित  in his 1753 book , A Treatise of the Scurvy , though his advice was not implemented by the Royal Navy for several decades .
In infants , scurvy  is  sometimes referred to as Barlow 's disease , named after Sir Thomas  barlow  ,  a  British physician  जो  described it .
However , Barlow  's  disease may also refer to mitral  वाल्व  prolapse .
Other eponyms for scurvy include  moeller  's disease and Cheadle 's disease .
स्कर्वी  does not occur in most  पशु  because they can  synthesize  their  अपना  vitamin C .
However , humans and other higher primates  (  the simians - monkeys and  apes   -  and  tarsiers  ) , guinea pigs , most or all bats  ,   और  some species of birds and fish  कमी  an enzyme  (   l-gulonolactone  oxidase )  जरुरी  for such synthesis  और  must obtain vitamin C through their  आहार  .
Vitamin  c  is widespread  in  plant tissues , with particularly high concentrations occurring in  citrus  fruits ( oranges  ,  lemons , limes ,  grapefruits  ) , tomatoes , potatoes , cabbages , and green peppers .
Iron is a chemical element  साथ   the  symbol Fe ( from ) and atomic number 26  .
It is a metal in the first transition series .
It  is  the most common element ( by mass )  forming  the planet Earth as a whole  ,  forming much of Earth  's  outer and inner core .
It  is  the fourth  सबसे  common element in the Earth 's crust .
आयरन   's  very  आम  presence in rocky planets like Earth  is  due to its  abundant  production as a result  of  fusion in high-mass stars , where the production of  nickel-56   (  which decays to the most  आम  isotope  of  iron ) is the  पिछला  nuclear  संलयन  reaction that is  ऊष्माक्षेपी  .
This causes radioactive nickel  to  become the last element to  be  produced before collapse of a supernova leads to the explosive events that scatter this  precursor  radionuclide of iron abundantly into space  .
Like  अन्य  group  8  elements , iron exists in a wide range of oxidation states , −2 to +6 , although +2 and +3 are the most common .
elemental  iron occurs in  meteoroids  and other low oxygen  environments  , but is reactive to oxygen and water .
Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray , but oxidize in normal air to give hydrated iron oxides , commonly known as rust .
Unlike many other metals which  रूप  passivating oxide layers , iron oxides occupy more volume than iron metal , and thus  आयरन  oxides flake off and expose fresh surfaces for  संक्षारण  .
Iron metal has been used since ancient  टाइम्स   ,  though copper  alloys  ,  जिससे  have lower melting temperatures , were  प्रयुक्त  first in history .
Pure iron is soft ( softer than aluminium  )   ,  but is unobtainable by smelting .
The material is significantly hardened and strengthened by impurities from the smelting process , such as carbon .
A  निश्चित  proportion of carbon ( between  0.002  % and 2.1 % ) produces  स्टील  , which may be  up  to 1000 times harder than pure iron .
Crude iron metal is produced in blast furnaces , where ore is reduced by coke to pig iron , which has a high carbon content .
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the carbon content to the correct proportion to make steel .
Steels and low carbon iron alloys with other metals ( alloy steels ) are by far the most common metals in industrial use , due to their great range of desirable  गुण  and the abundance  of  iron .
Iron chemical compounds , which include ferrous and ferric compounds , have  अनेक  uses .
Iron  ऑक्साइड  mixed with aluminium powder can be ignited to create a thermite reaction , used in welding and purifying ores .
It forms binary compounds with the halogens and the chalcogens .
Among its organometallic compounds is ferrocene , the first sandwich compound discovered .
Iron plays an important role in biology , forming complexes with molecular  ऑक्सीजन  in hemoglobin and myoglobin ; these two compounds are common  ऑक्सीजन  transport proteins in vertebrates .
Iron  is  also the metal  प्रयुक्त  at the active site of many important redox enzymes dealing  साथ  cellular respiration and oxidation and reduction in plants and animals  .
The Blue Cross Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ) is  a  federation of 38 separate health insurance organizations and companies in the United States .
संयुक्त  , they directly or indirectly provide health insurance to over 99 million Americans .
the  history of Blue  क्रॉस  dates back to 1929 ,  जबकि  the history of Blue Shield dates to 1939 .
The Blue Cross  संघ  dates back to 1960  ,  while its Blue  शील्ड  counterpart was created  in  1948 .
The two organizations merged in 1982 , forming the current association .
A potato  चिप  ( known as a chip in American , Australian , New Zealand , Canadian , Singaporean , Hong Kong , South African and Jamaican English ; as  a  crisp in  अंग्रेजों   अंग्रेज़ी  and Hiberno-English , and as either a chip or wafer  in  Indian English  )  is a thin slice of potato that is deep fried or baked until crunchy .
Potato chips are commonly served as  an  appetizer , side dish , or snack .
The basic chips are cooked and salted ; additional varieties are manufactured using various flavorings and ingredients including seasonings , herbs  ,   मसाले  , cheeses  ,   और  artificial additives .
`` Crisps '' , however , may also refer to many different types of savory snack products sold in the United Kingdom and Ireland , some made from potato , but may also be made from maize , tapioca or other cereals .
an  example of these  kinds  of savory snacks is  दानव  Munch .
Potato chips are a predominant part of the snack food market in English-speaking countries and numerous other Western nations .
The  वैश्विक  potato chip market generated  कुल  revenues of US $  16.4  billion in 2005 .
This accounted for 35.5 % of the total savory snacks market in  कि  year ( US  $   46.1  billion ) .
Henry Clay , Sr.  (  April 12 , 1777 – June 29 , 1852 ) was a lawyer , politician and skilled orator who represented Kentucky in both the Senate and in the House of Representatives  .
He served three different terms as Speaker of the United States House of Representatives and was also Secretary of State from 1825 to 1829 .
He lost his campaigns for president in 1824 , 1832 and 1844 .
Clay was a dominant figure in both the First and Second Party systems .
As  a  leading war  हॉक  in 1812  ,  he  favored  war with Britain and  निभाई  a significant role in leading the nation to war in  the  War of 1812 .
In 1824 he ran for president and lost , but threw his electoral votes to John Quincy Adams , who made him secretary of state as the Jacksonians denounced what they considered a `` corrupt bargain . ''
He ran  और   खोया  again in 1832  और  1844 as  the  candidate  of   the  Whig Party , which he founded and usually dominated .
Clay was the  foremost  proponent of the American System , fighting for an increase in tariffs to foster industry  in  the United States , the use of federal funding to build and maintain infrastructure , and a  दमदार   नेशनल  bank  .
He opposed the annexation of Texas , fearing it would  इंजेक्ट  the slavery issue into politics .
Clay also opposed the Mexican-American War and the ``  manifest  Destiny `` policy  of   डेमोक्रेट  , which cost him votes in the close 1844 election .
Dubbed the `` Great Pacificator ,  ''  Clay brokered important compromises during the Nullification Crisis  और  on the slavery issue .
As part of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` Immortal Trio , '' along with his colleagues Daniel Webster and John C. Calhoun , he was instrumental in formulating the Missouri Compromise of 1820  और  the Compromise of 1850  .
He was viewed as the primary representative of Western interests in this group , and was given the names `` Henry of the West '' and `` The Western Star . ''
A  वृक्षारोपण  owner ,  मिट्टी  held slaves during his lifetime but freed  उन्हें  in his Will .
Abraham Lincoln  ,  the Whig leader in Illinois  ,   थी  a great admirer  of  Clay  ,  saying he was `` my ideal of a great man . ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly supported  मिट्टी  's economic programs .
In 1957 , a Senate Committee selected  मिट्टी  as one of the five  महानतम   u.s  . Senators , along  साथ   डेनियल   वेबस्टर   ,   जॉन  C. Calhoun ,  रॉबर्ट  La Follette , and Robert Taft .
BJ  's  Wholesale Club , Inc. ,  commonly  referred to simply  as  BJ 's , is a membership-only warehouse club  कड़ी  operating on the United States East Coast  ,  as  खूब  as in the state of Ohio  .
The company is ranked  #  232  on  Fortune magazine 's 2010 listing of America 's 500 largest public corporations .
The Wizard of Oz , known during his reign as The Great and Powerful Oz , is  the  epithet  of  Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkel Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs , a fictional character in the Land of Oz ,  निर्मित  by American author L. Frank Baum .
The character was further popularized by the classic 1939 movie , wherein his full name is not mentioned .
Kristinia Jamie DeBarge ( ; born March 8 , 1990 ) is an American singer , songwriter , dancer and actress .
She first  appeared  on national television in 2003 as a contestant on the American Idol spin-off , American Juniors  .
In 2009 , DeBarge signed a contract with the Island Records department Sodapop , releasing her debut album Exposed in July of the same year .
The first single , ``  अलविदा  `` , reached the top 20 in the  us  and Canada  .
The lead  सिंगल  ( `` Cry Wolf '' ) from her untitled sophomore album was released on September 27 , 2012 .
The Hawaii Warriors football team represents the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa  in  NCAA Division I FBS  कॉलेज  football .
The team is coached by Norm Chow .
it   थी  part of the Western Athletic Conference  जबतक  July 2012  ,  when the team joined the Mountain  वेस्ट  Conference .
The  हवाई  Warriors  यहूद   the  third non-AQ team to play in  a  BCS bowl  खेल  ;  खोने  to Georgia 41–10 in the Sugar Bowl on January 1 , 2008 in New Orleans , Louisiana .
Marvin  gaye  ( April 2 , 1939April 1  ,  1984 )  ,  born  मारविन  Pentz Gay ,  jr.  , was an American singer-songwriter and musician .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How  मीठी  It Is ( To Be Loved By You  )  `` and `` I Heard  it  Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell ,  बाद  earning the titles  ``  Prince of Motown '' and ``  प्रिंस   of  Soul '' .
During the 1970s , Gaye recorded  the  concept  एल्बम  What 's  going  On and Let 's Get It On and became among the  पहला  artists in Motown to break away from the reins of its  उत्पादन  company .
gaye  's later recordings influenced several R & B subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
Following a period in Europe under a tax  निर्वासन  in the early 1980s , Gaye released the 1982 Grammy Award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album .
चूंकि  his death in 1984 , Gaye has been posthumously honored  by  many institutions , including  the   ग्रैमी  Lifetime Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of  कीर्ति  .
Location of Chernobyl nuclear power plant
The abandoned city of Pripyat with Chernobyl plant in the distance
Abandoned housing blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster  (  , Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in  युक्त  ( then officially  the   यूक्रेनी  SSR ) , which was under the  सीधा  jurisdiction  of  the central authorities of the Soviet Union .
An explosion and fire released large quantities of radioactive  अणु  into the atmosphere  ,  which spread over much  of  the western  ussr  and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in  इतिहास  , and  is  one of only  दो  classified as a level 7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other  होने  the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ) .
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved over 500,000 workers and cost  an  estimated  18  billion rubles .
The  आधिकारिक  Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been  विवादित  , and long-term  प्रभाव  such  as  cancers  और  deformities are  स्टिल  being accounted for .
Mrs. Claus says goodbye to her husband as  he  sets off on his journey in this 1919  पोस्टकार्ड
Mrs. Claus is the wife of Santa Claus , the Christmas gift-bringer in North American and European Christmas  परंपरा  .
She is known  लिये  making  कुकीज़  with the elves and preparing toys with her husband Santa Claus  .
Her first name is a mystery  ,  though she has been referred to as Mary , Jessica , Layla , Annette  ,  Heidi , or Martha .
HijackThis ( also  hijackthis  or HJT ) is an open source enumerating tool for Microsoft Windows originally created by Merijn Bellekom , and later sold to Trend Micro .
The program is notable for targeting browser-hijacking methods ,  बल्कि  than relying on a database of known spyware .
It scans  a  user  's  computer quickly , and  प्रदर्शक  browser hijacking locations , showing what entries are there  .
HijackThis is used primarily for diagnosis of browser hijacking  ,  as uninformed use of its removal facilities can cause significant software damage to a computer .
HijackThis does not remove or detect spyware ; it lists most common locations where browser hijacking activity can occur .
Browser hijacking can cause  मैलवेयर  to  be  installed on a computer .
On February  16  , 2012 , Trend  सूक्ष्म  released the HijackThis source code as open source and it  is  now available on the SourceForge  साईट  .
Saddle Creek Records is  an  American record label based in Omaha , Nebraska .
Started as a college class project on entrepreneurship , the label was founded  by  Mike Mogis and Justin Oberst in 1993 ( as Lumberjack  रिकॉर्ड   )  .
Mogis soon turned over his role in the company to Robb  nansel  .
The  लेबल  is named after Saddle Creek Road , a street that cuts through the east side of midtown Omaha , and the beginnings of a scene whose members  शामिल  Conor Oberst ( then  a  solo artist , currently of Bright Eyes  ,  Conor Oberst and  the  Mystic Valley Band , Desaparecidos and Monsters of  लोक  ) ,  टिम  Kasher ( then of Slowdown Virginia , currently of Cursive and The  शुभ  Life ) , and others .
Collectively , they  यहूद  known unofficially as the `` Creekers '' .
Saddle Creek first appeared in print on a show flyer , offering to `` Spend an evening with Saddle Creek  ''  ( later to be the title of the label 's DVD . )
Saddle Creek became an incorporated entity as a  परिणाम  of a class  प्रोजेक्ट  on entrepreneurship .
Distribution is handled by the Alternative Distribution Alliance , which is under the Warner Music Group  छतरियाँ  .
Saddle Creek  रिकॉर्ड  continues to be the flagship label of  a  style of music called `` The Omaha Sound `` , characterized by a slight country twang .
This is increasingly inaccurate  ,  though , with  the  rise of  अधिक  electronic sounds such as  those  favored by The Faint and  टूटा  Spindles .
The eclectic sounds of Saddle Creek 's disparate member bands is somewhat explained by their history ; a number of the  असली  members  of  the label attended grade school together .
A ``  सिस्टर  label '' , of sorts  ,  to Saddle Creek is Team  प्रेम   ,  started by  conor  Oberst in 2004 .
The label opened arms to their  पहला  bands not based in Omaha in 2001 with  रिलीज   by  Now It 's Overhead and Sorry About Dresden .
Other non-Nebraskan artists followed , including Los Angeles 's Rilo Kiley , Eric Bachmann  (  formerly leader of Archers of Loaf and Crooked Fingers from North Carolina ) , Georgie James ( Washington D.C. ) , Two Gallants ( San Francisco ) , and most recently Tokyo Police Club ( Toronto ) .
In 2005 , Spend an Evening with Saddle Creek  ,  a  वृत्तचित्र  detailing the first ten years of the  रिकार्ड  label 's history , was released .
The DVD features  extensive  interviews with the Saddle Creek bands , archival footage , and rare  सजीव  performances .
on  June 8 , 2007 , the label opened their own music venue named Slowdown (  बाद  the group Slowdown Virginia ) ,  स्तिथ  in downtown Omaha , Nebraska  .
The following is a list of episodes for the television show Full House .
In total , there  यहूद  192 episodes  फिल्माया  for the  दिखाएँ  over the course of its eight seasons , from 1987 to 1995 .
Full  हाउस   is  a  हालात  comedy which chronicles a widowed father 's struggles of  उठाने  his  तीन  young daughters and the lives that they have touched .
The  patriarch  of the  परिवार  , Danny ( Bob Saget ) ,  आमंत्रण   उसके  brother-in-law Jesse ( John Stamos ) and his best friend Joey ( Dave Coulier ) , to help raise  उसके  children ( Candace Cameron , Jodie Sweetin  ,   और  Mary  kate/ashley  Olsen )  ,  after his wife was killed during an automobile accident involving a drunk driver .
After episodes 88 and 89  ,   जेसी  marries Becky ( Lori Loughlin ) , and they move  into  the attic .
Then , after episodes 104 and 105 , Becky and Jesse have twin boys named Nicky  और  Alex (  डेनियल   और  Kevin Renteria/Blake and Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit )  .
The series ends with episode 192 , `` Michelle Rides Again Part 2 '' , when Michelle loses  उसके   मेमोरी  and the  परिवार  tries to restore it .
Notice of Stamp Act of 1765 in Newspaper
American newspapers reacted to the  स्टैम्प   अधिनियम  with anger and predictions of the demise of  पत्रकारिता  .
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties in  अमरीकी  Colonies Act 1765  ;  5 George III , c. 12 )  imposed  a direct tax by the British Parliament specifically on the colonies of British America  ,   और  it required that many printed materials in  the  colonies be produced on  stamped  paper produced in London , carrying an embossed revenue stamp .
These printed materials were legal documents , magazines ,  अखबारों   और  many other types of paper used throughout the colonies .
Like previous taxes , the stamp tax had to be paid in valid British currency , not in colonial paper money .
The purpose of the  कर  was to help pay for troops stationed in North America after the British victory in the  सात  Years ' War .
The British government felt that the colonies  यहूद  the primary beneficiaries of this military presence , and  चाहिए   अदा  at least a portion  of  the expense .
The  स्टैम्प  Act met great resistance in the colonies .
The colonies sent no representatives to Parliament , and therefore had no influence  over  what  कर  were raised , how they were  levied  , or how they would be spent  .
अनेक   colonists  considered it  a  violation of their  अधिकारों  as Englishmen to be taxed without their consent —consent that only the  औपनिवेशिक  legislatures could grant .
Colonial assemblies sent petitions and protests .
The Stamp Act Congress held in New York City  ,  reflecting the first significant joint colonial  जवाब  to  कोई  British measure , also petitioned Parliament and the King .
Local protest groups , led by colonial merchants and landowners  ,  established connections  through  correspondence  कि  created a loose coalition that  विस्तारित  from New England  to  Georgia .
Protests and demonstrations initiated by the Sons of  स्वतंत्रता  often turned violent and destructive as  the  masses became involved .
Very soon all stamp  कर  distributors were intimidated into resigning their commissions  ,  and the  कर  was never effectively collected .
Opposition to the Stamp Act was not limited to the  colonies  .
British merchants and manufacturers ,  जिनकी   निर्यात  to the colonies were threatened by colonial economic problems exacerbated by  the  tax , also pressured Parliament .
The Act was  repealed   on  March 18 ,  1766  as  a  matter of expedience ,  लकिन  Parliament affirmed its power to legislate for the  colonies  “in all cases whatsoever” by  भी  passing the Declaratory Act .
There followed a series of new taxes and regulations , likewise opposed by  the  colonists .
The episode played a major role in defining the  grievances  and enabling the organized colonial resistance that led to the American Revolution in 1775  .
PT-105 underway  .
PT boats  यहूद  a variety of torpedo-armed fast attack craft used  by   the  United States Navy in World War II to  आक्रमण  larger surface ships .
`` PT ''  is  the US hull classification symbol for `` Patrol Torpedo '' .
the  PT boat squadrons were nicknamed `` the mosquito fleet '' .
The Japanese called them `` Devil Boats '' .
The original pre– World War I torpedo boats were designed with ``  विस्थापन   ''  hulls .
They displaced up to 300  टन  and the top speed was .
The PT boats  प्रयुक्त  in World War II were built using  the  planing -type hull  रूप  developed  लिये  racing boats  .
They were  much  smaller ( 30–75 tons ) and faster ( 35–40 knots )  .
Both types were designed to strike at larger  warships  with torpedoes , using relatively high speed to get close , and small size to avoid being spotted and hit by gunfire .
They  यहूद   much  less expensive than large warships .
PT boats were much faster , smaller ,  और  cheaper than conventional ( displacement hull ) vessels .
During  संसार  War II , American PT boats engaged enemy destroyers and numerous other surface craft , ranging from small boats to large supply ships .
PT boats also operated as gunboats against  दुश्मन  small craft , such as  कराया  barges used by the Japanese forces for inter-island transport .
Good Friday is  a   धार्मिक  holiday observed primarily by Christians commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and  उसके  death at Calvary .
The holiday is observed during Holy Week as part of  the  Paschal Triduum on the Friday  preceding   ईस्टर  Sunday , and may coincide  साथ   the  Jewish observance of Passover .
It is also known as Holy Friday , Great Friday , Black Friday , or Easter Friday , though the latter properly refers to the Friday in  ईस्टर  week .
Based  on  the  विवरण  of the Canonical gospels , the Crucifixion of Jesus was most likely to have been on a Friday ( the day before the Sabbath ) ( ) .
The estimated year  of  the  crucifixion  is AD 33 , by two  अलग  groups , and originally as AD 34 by Isaac Newton via the differences between the  biblical  and Julian calendars and the  crescent  of the moon .
A third  विधि  , using a completely different astronomical approach  आधारित  on a lunar  crucifixion  darkness and eclipse model ( consistent  साथ  Apostle Peter 's reference to a ``  चंद्रमा  of  रक्त  '' in Acts 2:20  )  , points to Friday , 3 April AD 33  .
The Great Basin is the largest area of endorheic watersheds in North America .
It is noted for  दोनो  its arid conditions and its Basin and  दायरा  topography that varies from the  उत्तर  American low point at Badwater  जलाशय  to the highest point of the contiguous United States , less than away at the summit  of  Mount Whitney .
The region spans several physiographic divisions , biomes / ecoregions , and deserts .
Raster  may  refer to:
Raster  ग्राफिक्स  , graphical techniques using arrays of pixel values
रास्टर  graphics editor , a computer program
Raster scan  ,  the pattern of image readout , transmission , storage , and reconstruction in  टेलीविज़न  and  कंप्यूटर  images
rasterisation  , or rasterization , conversion of a vector image to a  रास्टर  image
Raster image processor , or RIP  ,   a  component of a printing system that performs rasterisation
Raster interrupt  ,  a computer interrupt signal
Raster  to  vector , an image conversion process
Raster bar , an effect used in computer demos
raster-noton  , a record label
Rastrum , a device  प्रयुक्त  in  मध्यकालीन  music manuscripts to draw staff lines
रास्टर  Document Object , a file format
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary Geatish hero and later turned king in the epic poem named after him , one of the oldest surviving pieces of  साहित्य  in the English language .
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor )  थी  a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against  the   संयुक्त  States naval base at  पर्ल  Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning of December 7 , 1941 ( December 8 in Japan )  .
From the  standpoint  of the defenders ,  the  attack commenced  at  7:48  a.m.  Hawaiian Time .
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from  दखल  with military actions the  साम्राज्य  of Japan was  नियोजन  in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United  किंगडम  , the Netherlands , and the United States .
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters , bombers and torpedo planes in two waves , launched from six aircraft carriers .
All eight U.S. Navy battleships were  क्षतिग्रस्त  , with four being sunk .
Two of these were later raised , and with the remaining four repaired , six battleships returned to service later in the war .
The  जापानी  also sank or damaged  तीन  cruisers , three destroyers , an anti-aircraft training  जलयान  , and one minelayer .
188  u.S.  aircraft were destroyed ; 2,402 Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded .
Important base installations such as the power station , shipyard , maintenance  ,  and fuel and torpedo storage facilities , as well as the submarine piers and  मुख्यालय  building  (  also  घर  of the intelligence section ) were not attacked .
Japanese losses were light :  29  aircraft and five midget submarines lost , and 65 servicemen killed or wounded .
One  जापानी  sailor was captured .
The attack came as a profound shock to the American people and led directly to the American entry into World  युद्ध  II  in   दोनो  the Pacific and European theaters .
The following day (  दिसम्बर  8 ) , the United States declared war on Japan .
Domestic support for non-interventionism , which  था  been  दमदार  , disappeared .
clandestine  support of Britain ( for example  the  Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance  .
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and Italy  to  declare war on the U.S. on December  11  , which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day .
There were numerous historical precedents for unannounced military action by Japan .
However , the lack of  कोई  formal warning , particularly while negotiations were  स्टिल  apparently ongoing , led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim  दिसम्बर  7 , 1941 , `` a  तिथि   जिससे  will  सजीव  in infamy ``  .
U.S. Route 85 ( US 85 )  is  a north–south United States highway that runs for  in  the Mountain - Northern  मैदान  states of the United States .
The southern terminus  of  the route  is  at the United States-Mexico border in El  पासो  , Texas , connecting with Mexican Federal Highway 45 .
The northern terminus is at the United States-Canada border in Fortuna , North  डकोटा   ,  where the route continues north  as   saskatchewan   राजमार्ग  35 .
In both the United States and Saskatchewan , Canada the  रूट   is  known as the CanAm Highway .
Sections of US 85 are considered part of the Theodore Roosevelt Expressway  .
The United States  अध्यक्षीय  election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday , November 5 , 1968  .
The Republican nominee  ,  former Vice-President Richard Nixon , won the election over the Democratic  nominee  , incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran  on  a campaign that promised to restore law and order to the nation 's cities  ,  torn by riots and crime .
विश्लेषकों  have argued the election of 1968  is  a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the  नई   सौदे  Coalition that had dominated  अध्यक्षीय  politics for 36 years .
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide , the election saw the incumbent president forced  आउट  of the race  और  a Republican elected for the  पहला  time in twelve years .
it  was a wrenching national experience , conducted  दौरान   a  year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King , Jr.  ,  and subsequent race riots across the nation , the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy ,  फैली  opposition to the Vietnam War  आरपार  university campuses , and  हिंसक  confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the  1968  Democratic National Convention as the Democratic  पार्टी  split again and again .
The election featured the strongest third party effort since 1912 by  पूर्व  Alabama Governor George  वालेस  , a Democrat .
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South  to  end school  पृथक्करण  , he  carried  the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North .
This was the  पिछला  election in which New York had the  सबसे  votes in the electoral college ( 43 votes ) .
After the 1970 census , California gained the most electoral  मत  and has remained the most populous state  चूंकि  then  .
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won without carrying the vice presidential  प्रत्याशी  's home state .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System  मॉनिटर  application included  साथ  the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications , processes and CPU  उपयोग  , commit charge and memory information  ,  network activity and statistics , logged-in users  ,  and system services ( and as often is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft  लिये  Windows , 3rd party software is available  जिससे  fills the requirements more thoroughly , e.g , `` Process Explorer  ''  , `` Extended Task Manager '' , `` Anvir Task Manager '' , `` Process Hacker '' , and `` System Explorer '' ) .
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities , processor affinity , forcibly terminate processes , and shut  bas  , restart , hibernate or log off from Windows .
Windows Task Manager was introduced with Windows NT 4.0 .
Previous versions of Windows NT included the Task List application  ,  which had far fewer features .
The task list was  सक्षम  of listing  फिलहाल  running processes and  हत्या  them , or  बनाना  a new process .
In Windows XP only , a Shutdown menu is also  उपस्थित  that allows access to Standby , Hibernate , Turn  बंद  , Restart , Log Off and Switch User .
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x , Windows 95 , Windows 98 ) had a program known as tasks  to  display the programs currently running .
This file was executed  by  running the taskman.exe file from the C : \Windows directory .
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted  logographic  Chinese characters ( hanzi  )  that are used in the modern  जापानी  writing system along with hiragana ( ひらがな , ) , katakana ( カタカナ , ) , Hindu-Arabic  numerals  , and  the  occasional use of the Latin alphabet .
The Japanese term kanji  (  ) for the Chinese characters literally means `` Han characters ''  और  is written  using  the same characters as the Chinese hanzi ( ) .
John R Williams ( May 4 , 1782 – October 20 , 1854 ) was an American soldier , merchant , and  राजनेता  who is most well known for serving as the first mayor of Detroit , Michigan .
In total , he served as Detroit 's mayor for  पाँच  other terms .
He  भी  was a brigadier general in the United  राज्य  Army during the Black Hawk War .
a  simple dry magnetic portable compass .
a   स्मार्टफोन  that can be used as a compass because of the magnetometer inside .
An iPhone that can be used as a geological compass because of the 3-axis teslameter and 3-axis accelerometer  अंदर  it
A military compass that was  प्रयुक्त   दौरान  World War I .
A compass is a navigational instrument that shows directions in a frame of reference that is stationary relative to the surface of the earth .
the   फ़्रेम  of reference defines the four cardinal directions ( or points ) – north , south , east , and west .
Intermediate directions  हैं  also defined .
Usually , a diagram called a compass rose , which shows the directions ( with their names usually abbreviated to initials ) , is marked on the compass .
When the compass is in use  ,  the rose is aligned with the real directions in  the  frame of reference  ,  so , for example , the `` N '' mark on the  रोज़  really points to the north  .
Frequently ,  in  addition to the  रोज़  or sometimes instead of it , angle  markings  in degrees are shown on the compass .
North corresponds to zero degrees , and  the   कोण  increase clockwise , so east is  90  degrees , south is 180 , and west is 270 .
These numbers allow the compass to show azimuths or bearings , which are commonly stated in this notation .
The magnetic compass was first invented as a device for divination as early as  the  Chinese Han Dynasty ( Since about 206 BC ) .
The compass was used in Song Dynasty China by the  सैन्य  for navigational orienteering by 1040-1044 , and was used for maritime navigation by 1111  to  1117 .
The use of a compass is  अंकित  in  पश्चिमी   यूरोपीय  between 1187  और  1202 , and in Persia in 1232  .
The dry compass was invented in Europe around 1300  .
इस  was supplanted in the early 20th  सदी   by  the liquid-filled magnetic compass .
The Inca  साम्राज्य  or  inka   साम्राज्य  ( Quechua : Tawantinsuyu ) was the largest  साम्राज्य  in pre-Columbian America .
The administrative ,  राजनैतिक  and military center of  the  empire was located in Cusco in modern-day  पेरू  .
The Inca civilization arose from the highlands of Peru sometime in the early 13th century .
From 1438 to 1533 , the  incas  used a variety of  विधि  , from conquest to peaceful assimilation , to incorporate  a  large portion of western South America , centered on the Andean mountain ranges , including , besides Peru , large parts of modern Ecuador , western  और  south  सेंट्रल  Bolivia  ,  northwest Argentina , north and central  चिली  , and southern  कोलंबिया   into  a  राज्य  comparable to the historical empires of Eurasia .
The official language of the empire was Quechua , although hundreds of local languages and  dialects  of Quechua  यहूद   बोला  .
The Inca referred to their empire as Tawantinsuyu which  can  be translated  as  The Four Regions or The Four United Provinces .
There  यहूद  many local forms of worship  ,  most of them concerning local sacred `` Huacas `` , but the Inca leadership encouraged the worship of  inti  —the sun god—and imposed its sovereignty above other cults such as that of Pachamama .
The Incas  माना  their  किंग  , the Sapa Inca , to  be  the `` child of the sun . ''
The kidneys are organs that serve several essential regulatory roles in most animals , including vertebrates and some invertebrates .
They are  अनिवार्य  in the urinary  प्रणाली   और  also serve homeostatic functions such as the regulation of electrolytes , maintenance of acid–base balance ,  और  regulation of blood pressure ( via maintaining salt and water balance )  .
They serve the body  as  a natural filter  of   the  blood , and remove wastes which are diverted to the urinary bladder .
in  producing urine , the kidneys excrete  wastes   ऐसे  as urea and ammonium ,  और  they are also responsible for the reabsorption of water , glucose , and amino acids .
The kidneys also  उपज  hormones including calcitriol , erythropoietin , and the enzyme renin .
स्तिथ  at  the  rear of the abdominal cavity  in  the retroperitoneum , the kidneys receive blood from the paired renal  धमनियों  , and drain into the paired renal veins .
Each kidney excretes urine into a ureter ,  itself  a paired structure that empties into the urinary bladder .
Renal physiology is  the  study of kidney function , while  nephrology  is the medical specialty concerned with kidney diseases  .
Diseases of the kidney are diverse ,  लकिन  individuals with kidney disease frequently display characteristic  नैदानिक  features .
Common clinical conditions involving the  गुर्दा   शामिल  the nephritic and nephrotic  syndromes  , renal cysts , acute kidney injury , chronic kidney disease ,  urinary  tract infection , nephrolithiasis , and urinary  ट्रैक्ट  obstruction .
Various cancers of the kidney exist ; the most common adult  renal  cancer is renal cell carcinoma  .
Cancers , cysts , and some other renal conditions can be managed with  हटाना  of the  गुर्दा  , or  nephrectomy  .
When renal function , measured  by  glomerular filtration rate ,  is  persistently poor , dialysis and  गुर्दा   प्रत्यारोपण  may be treatment options .
Although they are not severely harmful  ,   गुर्दा  stones can be painful and a nuisance .
The  हटाना  of kidney stones involves ultrasound treatment  to  break up the stones into smaller pieces , which are then passed through the urinary tract .
One  आम  symptom of kidney stones  is  a sharp pain in the medial/lateral  खण्ड  of the lower back .
Lockton Companies Inc. is the world 's largest privately  आयोजित  insurance  brokerage  firm , providing insurance , risk management and employee benefits solutions  .
In addition to its Kansas City  ,  Missouri  मुख्यालय  , Lockton operates 60 locations  in  17 countries .
Lockton is currently home to more than 4,450 Associates  विश्वव्यापी  .
The company was  संस्थापित  by  जोकर  Lockton in 1966 and has since become the world’s  9th  largest insurance  brokerage  firm .
lockton  serves a wide array of industries with services that include risk management  ,  casualty , surety , professional indemnity and more  .
For  46  years , Lockton  posted  extraordinary organic growth , with global revenues reaching $ 915 million in fiscal 2012 .
Lockton Benefits  समूह  : Lockton’s Employee  benefit’s  team  works  closely with insurance carriers and administrators to create comprehensive and integrated benefits strategies for clients .
The Lockton Benefits Group provides  सेवाएं  including compliance , executive benefits , health  और  welfare  ,  health risk solutions , retirement and more .
Lockton Affinity : Lockton Affinity , an  संबद्ध  of  lockton  Companies  ,  meets the insurance needs of affinity groups , franchises  ,  professional organizations , and associations of all sizes .
Lockton Affinity offers a variety of insurance product options and programs .
Products include : General Liability , Professional  देयता  , Property  ,  Workers Compensation , Directors & Officers Liability , Commercial Auto , Specialty Coverage , Excess , Health Plans and more .
Lockton International : Lockton International operates offices in the UK and Ireland , as well as  कार्यालयों  throughout Asia and Latin America .
In Europe , Lockton International is a partner in  eos  RISQ , Europe’s leading insurance broking and risk management consultancy .
EOS RISQ is an equity-based European partnership of major independent insurance brokers with over 3,500 employees based in more than 30 countries in Europe .
lockton  International provides specialized  समाधान  for personal lines ,  sme’s  and major multi-national clients .
White chocolate is a chocolate derivative .
It commonly consists of cocoa  मक्खन  , sugar  ,  milk solids and salt , and is characterized by a pale yellow or ivory appearance .
the  melting point of cocoa butter , its primary cocoa bean component , is high enough to keep white chocolate solid at room temperature  .
Donald  लिओन  `` Don '' Blankenship ( born March 14 , 1950 )  थी  Chairman and CEO of Massey Energy Co. ,  the  sixth largest coal company ( by 2008 production ) in the United States .
He served in  those   भूमिकाएँ  from November 30 , 2000 , until December 31 , 2010 .
Blankenship is an active financial backer of the Republican  पार्टी  and participant  in  local and state politics ,  विशेषकर  in his home state of West Virginia .
He has  अक्सर  spoken out  सरेआम  about politics , the environment , unions , and  कोयले  production .
U.S. Securities  और  Exchange  आयोग  filings show Blankenship was paid $ 17.8 million in 2009 , the highest in the coal industry .
His 2009  अदा  represents a $ 6.8 million raise over 2008 and almost double  उसके  compensation package in 2007 .
Blankenship also received a deferred compensation package valued at $ 27.2 million in 2009 .
On December 3 , 2010 , Blankenship announced that he was  retiring  as CEO at  the  end of the year , and would be succeeded by Massey President Baxter F. Phillips Jr .
Bow Wow is one of the transcriptions used in English to describe a dog 's bark .
Bow Wow may also  refer  to:
Bow Wow ( band  )  , a Japanese hard rock/heavy metal band
Bow Wow ( rapper ) , an American rapper and actor
Bow Wow Sauce , a sauce developed in the Cotswolds region of England
Bow Wow  wow  , a UK new wave band
``  धनुष  Wow  ''  ,  a  song by The Fiery Furnaces from their 2003  एल्बम  Gallowsbird 's Bark
`` Bow Wow Blues ( My Mama Treat Me like a Dog ) '' , a song composed in the 1920s by Cliff Friend & Nat Osborne
लापरवाही  ( Lat . negligentia , from neglegere , to neglect , literally `` not to pick up something '' ) is a  विफलता  to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in  जैसे  circumstances .
The area of tort law known as negligence involves  नुक़सान  caused by carelessness , not intentional harm .
According  to   jay   M.  Feinman of the Rutgers University School of Law ;
``  The core idea of negligence is that people should exercise reasonable care when they act by taking account of the potential harm that  वे  might foreseeably cause harm to other  लोगों  . ''
``  those who go personally or bring property where they know that they or it may come into collision with the persons or property of others  have  by  विधि  a duty cast upon them to use reasonable care and skill to  avoid  such a collision . ''
फ्लेचर  v Rylands ( [ 1866 ] LR 1  ex  265 )
Through civil litigation , if an injured person proves that another person acted negligently  to  cause their injury , they can recover damages to compensate for their harm .
proving  a case for negligence can potentially entitle the injured plaintiff to compensation for harm to their body , property , mental well-being , financial status , or  अंतरंग   संबंध  .
however  , because negligence cases are very fact-specific , this general definition does not fully explain the concept  of   जब   the  law will require one person to compensate another for losses caused by accidental injury .
Further , the law of negligence  at  common  विधि   is  only one aspect of the law  of  liability .
Although resulting damages must be proven  in  order to recover compensation in a negligence action , the nature and extent  of   those  damages are not  the  primary focus  of  negligence cases .
A melanocytic nevus ( also known as ``  nevocytic  nevus '' ) is a type of lesion that contains nevus  कोशिकाएं  ( a type of melanocyte ) .
Some  स्त्रोत  equate the term  mole  with `` melanocytic nevus '' .
Other  स्त्रोत  reserve  the   पद  `` mole ''  लिये  other purposes .
the  majority of moles appear during the first two decades of a person’s life , while about one in every 100 babies is born with moles  .
acquired  moles are a form of benign neoplasm , while congenital moles , or congenital nevi , are considered a minor malformation or hamartoma and  may  be at a higher risk for melanoma .
A mole  can  be  either  subdermal (  अंतर्गत  the skin )  or  a pigmented growth on the skin , formed mostly  of  a type of cell known as a melanocyte .
The high concentration of the body’s pigmenting agent , melanin , is responsible for their dark color .
Moles are a member of the  परिवार  of skin lesions known  as  nevi .
The  व्यापक   metabolic  panel , or chemical screen , (  cmp  ; CPT code 80053 ) is  a  panel of 14 blood tests which serves as an initial broad medical screening tool .
The CMP  provides  a rough check of  गुर्दा  function , liver function , and  electrolyte  and  द्रव  balance  ,  but it is  दूर   इससे  perfect .
Abnormal values from a CBC  may  be  a  result of false positives and thus  the  CBC may need to be repeated for a patient ( or replaced with a more  विशिष्ट  test ) .
the  CMP is an expanded version of the basic metabolic panel ( BMP ) , which does  नहीं   शामिल  liver tests .
A CMP ( or BMP ) can be ordered as part of  a  routine  शारीरिक  examination , or may be used to monitor a patient with a chronic disease  ,  such as diabetes mellitus or  hypertension  .
Previous names  लिये  the panel of tests have been Chem 12 , Chemistry panel , Chemistry screen  ,  SMA 12 , SMA 20 and SMAC (  sequential  Multiple Analysis - Computer  )  .
The tests  हैं  performed on machines based on the AutoAnalyzer invented in 1957 .
Natural gas extraction by countries in cubic meters per year  .
Natural gas is a  naturally  occurring hydrocarbon gas mixture consisting primarily of methane , but commonly including varying amounts of other hydrocarbons , carbon dioxide , nitrogen , and hydrogen sulfide .
Natural gas is an energy  सोर्स  often used for heating , cooking , and electricity generation .
It is also used as fuel for vehicles and as  a  chemical feedstock in the  manufacture  of plastics and  अन्य  commercially important organic  रसायन  .
Natural gas is found in deep  भूमिगत  natural rock formations or associated with other hydrocarbon reservoirs in coal  beds  and as methane clathrates .
Petroleum is also another resource  मिला  in proximity to and with natural gas .
Most natural gas was created over time by two mechanisms :  biogenic   और  thermogenic .
Biogenic gas is created  by  methanogenic organisms in marshes , bogs , landfills , and shallow sediments .
Deeper in the earth  ,   at  greater temperature and pressure , thermogenic gas is created  इससे  buried organic material .
पहले   प्राकृतिक   गैस  can  be  used as a fuel , it must undergo processing to remove impurities , including water , to meet the specifications of  marketable  natural gas .
The by-products of processing include ethane , propane ,  butanes  ,  pentanes  , and higher  आणविक  weight  hydrocarbons  , hydrogen sulfide ( which may  be   परिवर्तित  into pure sulfur )  ,  carbon dioxide , water vapor , and sometimes helium and nitrogen  .
Natural gas is often informally referred to simply as gas , especially  जब  compared to other energy  स्त्रोत  such as oil  or  coal .
This  पेज  is about the Imagination Movers band .
For  सूचना  about the TV show starring the band , see Imagination Movers ( TV series ) .
कल्पना  Movers is  a  band formed in New Orleans , Louisiana , in 2003 .
The  लाइनअप  includes Rich Collins , Scott  durbin   ,  Dave Poche ,  और  Scott  ``  Smitty '' Smith .
Members of the group were longtime friends and neighbors  .
The group started as a television/music concept  जिससे  was pitched  to  local PBS affiliates in New Orleans .
WLAE-TV was  the  first to take an interest in the group and later  introduced  them  to  Beth Courtney , the President & Chief Executive Officer at Louisiana Public Broadcasting .
जल्द  after , LPB began airing one-minute videos produced by the Imagination Movers themselves .
The Movers built a sizable regional following by setting educational songs for kids to melodies  और  rhythms that adults appreciate as well .
They sold more than 100,000 copies of their self-produced CDs and DVDs .
उनके  three indie CDs :  ``  Good Ideas , '' `` Calling All Movers , ''  और  `` Eight Feet '' along with their grass  जड़ें  DVD `` Stir It Up '' have , combined ,  जीती  fourteen national awards , from such groups as the National Association  of  Parenting Publications  (   nappa  )  और   अभिभावक  ' Choice .
In early 2005 , Disney took notice , and initiated negotiations  to  add the Movers to the company 's roster .
These were  बाधित  in August when the flood protection  designed  and built by the Army Corps  of  Engineers to protect New Orleans failed .
The  resulting  floodwater  claimed  the band 's office , as well  as  the homes  of  Collins , Durbin and Poche – but the deal was signed in the spring of 2006 .
In 2008 , Walt Disney Records  introduced  the Imagination Movers ' music to the nation  साथ  the release of the Movers ' first nationally-released CD , `` Juice Box Heroes . ''
In September  2008  , a 30-minute show featuring the group began airing on the Disney Channel 's preschool programming block known as Playhouse Disney ,  और  currently  airs  on Playhouse Disney 's  बदलना  , Disney Junior .
The Movers write and perform all the songs on  उनके  show .
Moreover , the Imagination Movers have  प्राप्त  critical kudos for  उनके  live concert performances .
In October  2009  , the Imagination Movers started  the  `` Live from the Idea Warehouse Concert Tour  2009   ''  .
Traveling from mid-October to mid-December 2009 their live performances include lots of their favorite songs and  नाचना   ,  as well as video appearances of Warehouse  चूहा  .
Beginning in early-February 2011 and  wrapping  up in late May 2011 , the Imagination Movers  प्रस्तुत  their `` In a Big Warehouse Concert Tour , '' playing more than 100 shows in 50+ cities across North America  .
From March to October 2012 , the Imagination Movers toured North America on their post-Disney `` Rock-O-Matic '' tour .
The show maintained several elements of the original TV concept , such as an on-stage  ``  idea emergency '' and several sets from their  पुरानी   कैटलॉग  ; however ,  साथ  the departure of Wendy Calio  वापस  to her native Hawaii , the character `` Nina  ''  , along with her  musical  numbers , is not present .
The tour promotes the Imagination Movers ' new album/DVD release , `` Rock-O-Matic '' , which features all new music from the band .
The album itself is produced independently of  डिज़्नी   और  has a  notably  more mature , contemporary rock-and-roll sound , though still very appropriate for  children  .
Several performance dates were moved  to  later in  2012  to benefit from the increased exposure of the Imagination Movers TV show  अभी  playing daily on Disney Junior  .
The platypus (  ornithorhynchus  anatinus ) is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to eastern Australia ,  सहित  Tasmania  .
Together with the four species of echidna , it is one of the five extant species of monotremes , the only mammals that lay eggs  बजाय  of giving birth .
It is the sole living representative of its  परिवार  ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus )  ,  though a number of related species have been found in  the   चट्टान  record .
the  unusual appearance of this egg-laying , duck -billed , beaver -tailed  ,  otter -footed mammal  मनोरथ  European naturalists when they  पहला  encountered it , with some considering it  an  elaborate fraud .
It is  एक  of the few venomous mammals , the  पुरूष   platypus  having a spur on the  हिन्द  foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain  to  humans .
The unique features of the platypus make it an  महत्वपूर्ण  subject in the study of evolutionary  जीवविज्ञान  and a recognisable and iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on  the  reverse of its 20-cent coin  .
The platypus is the animal  emblem  of the state of New South Wales .
Until the early 20th century ,  it  was  hunted  for its fur  ,  but it is now protected throughout its range .
Although captive breeding programmes have had only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution , it is not under any immediate threat .
The Chupacabra or Chupacabras ( , from  chupar  `` to  चूस  '' and cabra `` goat '' ,  वस्तुतः  `` goat sucker '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of  the  Americas .
It is  संबद्ध  more recently with sightings  of  an  allegedly  unknown animal in Puerto Rico ( where these sightings  यहूद  first reported ) , Mexico , and the United States  ,  especially in the latter 's Latin American communities .
The name comes from the animal 's reported habit of attacking and drinking the blood  of  livestock , especially goats .
Physical descriptions of the creature vary .
eyewitness   sightings  have been claimed as early as 1995 in Puerto Rico , and have since been  reported  as far  उत्तर  as Maine  ,  and as far south as Chile , and even being spotted outside the Americas in countries like Russia and The Philippines  .
It is supposedly a heavy creature ,  the  size of a small  भालू  , with a row of spines reaching  इससे  the neck to the base of the  टेल  .
Sighting  रिपोर्ट्स   of  the Chupacabra  have  been disregarded as uncorroborated or  lacking  evidence , while most reports in northern Mexico and the southern United States have been verified as canids afflicted by mange  .
Biologists and wildlife  प्रबन्धन   officials  view the chupacabra as a contemporary legend .
the  North American Free  व्यापार  Agreement ( NAFTA  )  is an agreement signed  by  Canada ,  मैक्सिको  ,  और  the United States , creating a trilateral trade bloc in North America .
The agreement came into force on  जनवरी  1 , 1994 .
It superseded the Canada–United States Free Trade Agreement  between  the U.S. ,  कनाडा  , and Mexico
NAFTA has two supplements : the North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation ( NAAEC ) and the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ) .
Thermal comfort is the condition of mind that expresses satisfaction with the thermal environment and is assessed by  subjective  evaluation ( ANSI  /  ASHRAE  मानक  55  )   .
Maintaining this standard of  थर्मल  comfort for occupants of buildings or other enclosures is one of the important goals  of  HVAC ( heating , ventilation , and air  कंडीशनिंग  ) design engineers  .
The Predicted Mean Vote ( PMV ) model stands among the most recognized  थर्मल  comfort models  .
It was developed using principles of heat balance and experimental data collected in a controlled climate  कक्ष  under steady state conditions .
Because the PMV model was derived from data collected  in  a controlled climate , it is not suitable for  अनुप्रयोग  in naturally ventilated spaces which often  have  high levels of air movement .
This shortcoming motivated the development of a family of empirical statistical models of thermal comfort in  naturally  ventilated spaces known as  अनुकूली  models .
Adaptive models of thermal comfort consider occupants as dynamically interacting with  उनके  environment , and controlling their thermal comfort by means of clothing or window-opening and closing .
This is  in  contrast to thermal  सुकून  in sealed buildings , in which occupants experience the environment passively .
Thermal comfort is affected by heat conduction , convection , radiation , and evaporative heat loss .
Thermal comfort is maintained  जब  the heat generated by  इंसान  metabolism is allowed to dissipate , thus  maintaining  thermal equilibrium with the surroundings .
It has  महरूम  long recognized that the  सनसनी  of feeling hot or cold is not just dependent on air temperature alone .
Thermal comfort calculations according to ANSI/ASHRAE Standard  55  can be freely performed with the CBE  थर्मल  Comfort Tool  लिये   ashrae-55  .
Durante  degli  Alighieri , simply  referred  to as  दांते  ( , ; ; c. 1265–1321 ) , was a major Italian  कवि  of the Middle Ages .
His Divine  कॉमेडी  , originally  पुकारा   '  and later called ' by Boccaccio , is widely considered the greatest literary work composed  in  the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature .
In Italy he  is   ज्ञात  as ' ( `` the Supreme Poet ''  )  or just  '  .
He ,  petrarch  and Boccaccio  हैं  also known as `` the three  स्रोतों  '' or  ``  the three crowns ''  .
Dante is also called the `` Father of the Italian language  ''   .
Headquarters (  कोबे  , Japan )
(  )  is a tire and rubber company based in Japan  .
it   is  part of the Sumitomo Group .
The company traces  इसके  origins to 1909 , when the Sumitomo Group made an investment in Dunlop Japan , the newly formed Japanese  subsidiary  of the British company Dunlop Rubber .
Over the  सालो  Sumitomo  और  Dunlop developed a close  कारोबार  relationship , and in 1963 the Sumitomo Group  acquired  control of Dunlop Japan and renamed  it  Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd .
In 1985 , when Dunlop Rubber  थी  taken over by BTR  पीएलसी  , the company acquired the automobile tire assets of Dunlop , including the right to use the Dunlop brand  on  automobile tires .
The acquisition did not include the US and Australian businesses , which were separately owned , but in 1986 Sumitomo also acquired the Dunlop Tire Corporation of  the  US from  इसके  management .
in  1997 , Sumitomo formed a joint venture with  goodyear  Tire and Rubber Company , by which Goodyear and Sumitomo agreed to manufacture tires for each other 's markets , including Dunlop branded tires .
as  part of  the   अनुबंध  , Goodyear acquired 75 % interests in Dunlop Tyres , the UK company which Sumitomo had formed , and in Dunlop Tire Corporation .
Goodyear and Sumitomo also made investments in  प्रत्येक  other .
Today , the company makes a wide range of rubber  आधारित  products , including  ऑटोमोबाइल  tires , golf balls and tennis  गेंदें  .
microsoft  Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware  एकीकृत  development environments ( IDE ) developed by Microsoft that are lightweight versions of the Microsoft Visual Studio product line .
Express  संस्करण   यहूद   conceived   शुरूआत  with Visual Studio  2005  .
The idea of Express editions is to provide streamlined  ,  easy-to-use and  easy-to-learn  IDEs  लिये  users other than professional software developers , such as hobbyists and students .
The  ऐल्प्स  are  एक  of the great mountain range systems  of  Europe stretching approximately across eight Alpine countries from Austria and Slovenia in the east , Switzerland ,  liechtenstein  , Germany , France to the west and Italy and Monaco to the south .
The mountains were formed over hundreds of millions of years as the African and Eurasian tectonic plates collided .
Extreme shortening caused by the event resulted in marine sedimentary rocks rising by thrusting and folding into high mountain peaks such as Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn .
Mont Blanc spans the French–Italian border , and at is the highest mountain  in  the Alps .
The Alpine region area contains many peaks higher than , known as the  ``  four-thousanders `` .
The  ऊँचाई  and size of the range affects the climate in Europe ;  in  the mountains precipitation levels vary  greatly   और  climatic  शर्तें  consist of distinct zones .
Wildlife such as ibex live in  the  higher peaks to elevations of , and plants such as Edelweiss grow in rocky areas in lower  elevations  as well as in higher elevations .
Evidence of human habitation in the Alps  goes  back to the  paleolithic  era  .
A mummified man  ,  determined to be  5,000  years old ,  थी  discovered on a glacier at the Austrian–Italian border in  1991   .
By the 6th century  bc  , the Celtic La Tène culture was well established .
Hannibal  may  have crossed the  ऐल्प्स  with a herd of elephants , and the Romans had settlements in the region .
In 1800 Napoleon crossed one of the mountain passes with an army of 40,000 .
the  18th and 19th  सदियां  saw an influx of naturalists , writers , and artists , in  particular  the Romantics ,  followed  by the golden age of alpinism as  mountaineers  began to  ascend  the peaks .
In World War II the Third Reich invaded the Alpine countries , with the  एक्सेप्शन  of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; Adolf Hitler kept a  आधार  of operation in the Bavarian  ऐल्प्स  throughout the war .
The Alpine region has a strong cultural identity .
The traditional culture  of  farming , cheesemaking , and woodworking still exists in Alpine villages , although the tourist industry began to grow early in the 20th century and expanded greatly after World War II  to  become the dominant industry by the end of the century  .
The Winter Olympic Games have been  hosted  in the Swiss , French , Italian , Austrian  और  German Alps .
At present the region  is  home to 14 million people and has 120  लाख  annual visitors .
Lois Patrice Griffin ( née  pewterschmidt  ) is a character from the animated television series  परिवार   guy  .
She is voiced by  लेखक  Alex Borstein and first  appeared  on television , along  साथ  the rest of the family in  the  15-minute  छोटी  on December 20 , 1998 .
Lois was created and designed by series creator Seth MacFarlane .
MacFarlane was asked to pitch  a  pilot to the Fox Broadcasting Company based on Larry and Steve , a  छोटी  made by MacFarlane which  प्रदर्शित   a  middle-aged character named Larry and an intellectual dog , Steve .
After the pilot was given the green  लाइट  ,  the  Griffin family appeared on the episode `` Death Has a Shadow `` .
Lois is  the  mother of the Griffin family .
साथ  her husband Peter  ,  she has had three children : Meg , Chris , and Stewie .
Lois is often portrayed as a stereotypical television mother , despite her admitting to being a drug user , a recovering meth addict kleptomaniac .
लोइस  has also had several affairs , one of which  allegedly   resulted  in  the  conception of Meg .
She  रै  appeared in other media relating to Family Guy—including a  वीडियो  game , commercials and books—and inspired an entire line of merchandise .
Lois 's distinctive New  यॉर्क  accent originated from a character in a stage  दिखाएँ  that  एलेक्स  Borstein had performed in , which was largely inspired by a relative who grew up on Long Island , New York .
Family transmission  of  Basque language  (  Basque as initial language  )
Percentage of students  पंजीकृत  in  बास्क  language schools (  2000–2005  ) .
Location of the Basque-language provinces within Spain and  फ़्रांस
Basque ( endonym : , ) is the ancestral language of the Basque people , who inhabit the Basque Country , a region spanning an area in northeastern Spain and southwestern France .
It is spoken by 27 % of Basques in all territories ( 714,136 out of 2,648,998 ) .
of   ये  , 663,035 live in the Spanish part of the Basque country and the remaining 51,100 live in the French part .
In  अकादमिक  discussions of the distribution of  बास्क  in Spain and France , it is customary to refer to three ancient provinces in France and  चार  Spanish provinces  .
Native  अध्यक्षों  are concentrated in a contiguous area including parts of the Spanish autonomous communities of the Basque Country and Navarre and in the western half of the French département of  pyrénées-atlantiques  .
The Basque Autonomous Community  is  an administrative entity within the binational ethnographic  बास्क  Country incorporating  the  traditional Spanish provinces of Biscay , Gipuzkoa , and Álava , which retain their existence  as  politico-administrative  विभाजन  .
These provinces and many areas of Navarre  हैं  heavily populated by  जातीय  Basques , but Basque was , at least until the 1990s  ,  not spoken as  a  native language  in  most of Álava , western parts of  biscay  and central and southern areas of  नावारा  , either because it had been replaced by  स्पेनी  along the centuries , in some areas , or  क्युकी  it had never been spoken there , in other areas .
In southwestern France , the ancient Basque-populated provinces were Labourd ,  निम्नतर  Navarre  ,  and Soule .
They and other regions  यहूद   संचित  into a single département in 1790 under the name Basses-Pyrénées ,  a  name which persisted until  1970  .
A standardized  रूप  of the Basque language , called Euskara Batua , was developed by the Basque Language Academy  in  the late 1960s .
euskara  Batua was created so that Basque language could be used—and easily understood by all Basque speakers—in  औपचारिक  situations ( education , mass media , literature ) ,  और  this is its main use today .
the  role of this standard Basque language  depends  on the linguistic educational model of each region and each school .
In most areas of  the  Spanish Basque Country , the  शैक्षणिक  Model D , where all subjects are taught in Basque , except `` Spanish  भाषा  and literature '' ( which is taught in  स्पेनी  )  is  now the predominant model .
In France , the Basque language school Seaska and the association for a bilingual ( Basque and French ) schooling Ikasbi  मिलें  a wide range of Basque  भाषा  educational needs up to the Sixth Form , while often struggling  to  surmount  वित्तीय  and administrative constraints .
Apart from this standardized  संस्करण  , there are five main Basque dialects : Bizkaian , Gipuzkoan , and Upper Navarrese in Spain , and  navarrese–lapurdian  and Zuberoan ( in France ) .
Although they take their names from the mentioned historic provinces , the dialect boundaries are not congruent with province boundaries .
The President , Directors and Company , of the  बैंको  of the United States , commonly known as the First Bank of the  संयुक्त   राज्य  , was a  सेंट्रल  bank , chartered  लिये  a  पद  of twenty years , by the United States Congress on February  25  , 1791  .
Establishment  of  the Bank  थी  included in a three-part expansion of federal fiscal and monetary power ( along with a federal mint and excise taxes ) championed  by  Alexander Hamilton , first Secretary of the  राजकोष  .
Hamilton believed a central bank was necessary to stabilize and improve the nation 's credit  ,  and to improve handling  of  the financial business of the United States government under the newly  enacted  Constitution .
officially  proposed to the  पहला  session of the First  कॉंग्रेस   in  1790 , Hamilton 's  बैंको  faced widespread resistance  इससे  opponents of  increased  federal power .
Secretary of  राज्य   थामस  Jefferson and James Madison led the opposition  ,  which claimed that the bank was unconstitutional , and that it benefited merchants and  निवेशकों  at the expense of the  बहुमत  of the population .
The First Bank building  is  now a National Historic  लैंडमार्क  located in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania within Independence National Historical Park .
James Wesley Marsters ( born  अगस्त   20  , 1962 ) is an American actor and musician .
Marsters  पहला  came to the attention of the  सामान्य  public playing the popular character Spike , a platinum-blond yobbish English vampire in the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer and its spin-off series , Angel , from 1997 to 2004 .
Since  तब  ,  he  has gone on to play other science fiction roles , such as the alien  supervillain  Brainiac on  the  Superman -inspired series Smallville , the omnisexual  समय   मुसाफ़िर  Captain John Hart in British science-fiction show Torchwood and terrorist Barnabas Greeley  in  Sci  fi   's  Caprica .
Marsters appeared  in   a  supporting role in the 2007  फिल्म  P.S .
I Love You and as the  प्रमुख  antagonist , Piccolo , in the 2009 fantasy adventure film Dragonball Evolution .
He appeared  as  a recurring character in the first season of the revival of Hawaii 5-0 .
In molecular biology , human  chorionic  gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized  अंडा  after conception .
Later  दौरान  pregnancy it is made by the  विकासशील  placenta , and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast .
कुछ  cancerous tumors produce this hormone ; therefore ,  elevated  levels measured when the patient is not pregnant can  सीसे  to a cancer diagnosis .
However ,  it  is not known whether this production is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis .
The pituitary analogue of hCG , known as luteinizing hormone ( LH )  ,  is  उत्पादित  in the pituitary gland of males  और  females of all ages .
,  the FDA  रै  prohibited the  बिक्री  of ``  होम्योपैथिक  '' and over the counter hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent  और  illegal .
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter , known by her stage name Beyoncé ( ; born September 4 , 1981 ) ,  is  an  अमरीकी  singer , songwriter , dancer , and actress .
Born and raised in Houston , Texas , she performed in singing and  नाचना  competitions as a child before forming in 1990 a group with Kelly  rowland  and LaTavia Roberson that was eventually named Destiny 's Child  .
Once signed to Columbia Records , the girls subsequently became one of the world 's best-selling girl groups of all time .
The group was plagued by internal conflict and legal turmoil and Knowles suffered  इससे  depression that lasted  लिये  a number  of  years .
During the group  's  hiatus , Knowles released her debut solo album Dangerously  in  Love ( 2003 ) , which earned her  पाँच   ग्रैमी  Awards and  रै  sold a total of 4.9 million copies in the US alone  .
It spawned Billboard  क्रमांक  one singles `` Crazy in Love ,  ''  considered by VH1 to be the `` Greatest Song Of the 00 's ,  ''  and `` Baby Boy . ''
Following the disbandment of  नियति  's Child in 2005 , Knowles 's second solo album B'Day ( 2006 ) contained the top five singles ``  déjà  Vu `` , `` Irreplaceable `` , and `` Beautiful  झूठा  `` .
Her performance in Dreamgirls ( 2006 ) earned her two Golden Globe nominations .
Knowles ' work playing Etta James in that film inspired her subsequent album I Am ...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008 ) which spawned hits `` If I Were a  लड़के  `` ,  ``  Single Ladies (  put  a Ring on It  )  `` , `` Halo `` , and `` Sweet Dreams `` .
The album also helped Knowles  earn  six Grammys in 2010 , breaking the record for most Grammy Awards won by  a  female artist in one night .
उसके  fourth album 4 ( 2011  )  deviated towards  परंपरागत  R  &  B and became  उसके   चौथी  consecutive number one album on the Billboard 200  .
In January 2012 , Knowles gave birth to daughter Blue Ivy Carter , her first child with husband Jay-Z .
Knowles has sold over 13 million albums in  the  US and 118  लाख  records worldwide ( as well as a further 50 million records  साथ  Destiny 's Child ) , and is one of the best-selling music artists of all time .
The Recording Industry Association of America  (  RIAA ) recognized Knowles as  the  Top Certified Artist of the 2000s .
In 2009 , Billboard named her the Top Radio  गीतों  Artist of the decade and ranked her the Top  मादा  Artist and the fourth Artist of the Decade .
बेयोंस  Knowles is the most nominated woman in Grammy Award history , receiving 17 awards ; other accolades include 12 MTV Video Music Awards  ,  7 Billboard Awards including a Millennium Award , and a star  on  the Hollywood Walk of Fame as part of Destiny 's Child .
`` Angry All the Time '' is the title of a song written by Bruce Robison and first recorded on his 1998  एल्बम  Wrapped .
It was  बाद  covered by Tim McGraw with guest vocalist Faith Hill .
released  in  जुलाई  2001 , McGraw 's version was the second single from McGraw  's  Set  इस  Circus Down  एल्बम  .
The song reached Number  एक  on the Billboard  hot  Country  singles  & Tracks ( now Hot  देश  Songs  )  charts .
Dear John is a  2010  American romantic drama - war film  अभिनीत  Amanda Seyfried and Channing Tatum .
It was released theatrically in North America on February 5 , 2010 .
The film was directed by Lasse Hallström , and it is an adaptation of Nicholas Sparks 's novel of the same  नाम  .
It follows the life of a soldier ( Channing Tatum ) after  he  falls in love with a  यंग  woman ( Amanda Seyfried ) .
They decide to exchange letters to each other after  he  is deployed to  the  war .
The movie  थी  filmed in 2009 in Charleston ,  दक्षिण  Carolina .
Despite receiving negative reviews , the film made a strong box office performance , knocking  बंद  Avatar after seven weekends in first  प्लेस  and grossing a total of $ 114,977,104 worldwide .
The  फिल्मी  was released  on  May 25 , 2010 on DVD and Blu-ray .
These are  सूचियाँ  of the  व्यस्ततम  airports in the  संयुक्त  States .
Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport is the busiest single airport in the United States .
however  , all of the New  यॉर्क  City metropolitan area 's airports combine to create the largest  विमानक्षेत्र  system in  the   संयुक्त  States , second  in  the world in terms of passenger  ट्रैफ़िक  , and first in the world in terms of total flight operations .
Dora the Explorer is an American animated television series created  by   क्रिस  Gifford , Valerie Walsh , and Eric Weiner .
Dora the Explorer became a regular series in 2000 .
The  दिखाएँ  is carried on the Nickelodeon cable television network , including  the  associated Nick Jr. channel .
It aired on CBS until September  2006  .
A Spanish-dubbed version first aired  as  part of a Nick en español block on NBC Universal -owned Telemundo through September 2006 ; since April  2008  , this version of the program has been carried on Univision as part of the Planeta U block .
Santa Fe ( ; (  tewa  : Ogha Po'oge , ) ) is  the  capital of the U.S. state of New  मैक्सिको   .
It is the fourth-largest city in the state and is the  सीट  of .
Santa Fe ( meaning “holy faith” in Spanish ) had a population  of  67,947 in the 2010 census .
It is the principal city of a Metropolitan Statistical Area which encompasses all of Santa Fe County and  is  part of the larger Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las Vegas Combined Statistical Area .
The city’s full name when founded was La Villa Real de la Santa  fé  de San Francisco de Asís (  “the  Royal Town  of  the Holy Faith of  st.  Francis of Assisi” ) .
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi , formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft drink that is produced and  manufactured  by PepsiCo .
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink , it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola  on   अगस्त  28  ,  1898 , then  to  Pepsi in 1961 .
1765 Broadside
the  Sons of Liberty was a group consisting of American patriots that originated in the pre-independence North American British colonies .
The group  थी  formed  to  protect the rights of  the  colonists and to take to the streets against the taxes by  the  British government .
They are best known for undertaking the Boston Tea Party in 1773 ,  जिससे  led to the Intolerable Acts  (  an intense crackdown by  the  British government ) , and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots .
Osaka castle
is  a city  in  the Kansai  प्रदेश  of Japan 's main island  of  Honshu ,  a  designated city under the Local Autonomy Law ,  the  capital  नगर  of Osaka Prefecture and also the largest part of the Keihanshin metropolis , which comprises three major cities of Japan , Kyoto , Osaka and Kobe .
Located at the mouth of the Yodo River  on  Osaka  खाड़ी  , Osaka is Japan 's third largest city  by  population after Tokyo ( special wards ) and Yokohama .
Keihanshin is the second largest metropolitan area in Japan by population and one  of  the largest metropolitan  क्षेत्रों  highly ranked in the world , with nearly 19 million people , and  by  GDP  the  second largest area in Japan and the seventh largest area in the world .
Historically the commercial center of Japan , Osaka functions as one  of  the command centers for the Japanese economy .
The ratio between daytime and night time population is 141 % , the  उच्चतम  in Japan , highlighting its status as an economic center .
Its nighttime population is 2.6 million , the  तीसरा  in the country , but in daytime the population surges to 3.7 million  ,  second  तभी  after  टोकियो  (  combining  the special  wards  of Tokyo , which is  नहीं   a  single incorporated city , for statistical purposes ; see the  टोकियो  article for more information on the definition and makeup of Tokyo ) .
Osaka used to be referred to as the  in  feudal Edo period because it was the centre of trading for rice , creating the first modern futures  एक्सचेंज  market in the world .
The Little Mermaid is a 1989 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
Based on the Danish fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen , The Little Mermaid tells the story of a beautiful mermaid who dreams of becoming human .
Written , directed  ,  and produced by Ron Clements and John Musker , with  म्यूज़िक   by  Alan Menken and Howard Ashman ,  the  film features the voices Jodi Benson , Christopher Daniel Barnes , Pat Carroll , Samuel E. Wright , Jason Marin ,  केनेथ  Mars , Buddy  hacket   ,  and Rene Auberjonois .
The 28th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series , The Little Mermaid was released to theaters  on  November  14  , 1989  to  largely positive reviews , garnering $ 84 million at the box office during its initial release , and $ 211 million in total lifetime gross .
बाद   the  success of the 1988 Disney / Amblin  फिल्मी   जो  Framed Roger Rabbit , The  छोटी  Mermaid is given credit for breathing life back into the art of Disney animated feature films after a string of critical or  वाणिज्यिक  failures produced by Disney that dated back to the early 1970s .
it  also marked the start of  the  era known as the Disney Renaissance .
A stage adaptation of the film with a book  by  Doug Wright and additional songs by Alan Menken and new lyricist Glenn Slater opened  in   डेनवर  in July 2007 and began performances on Broadway January 10 , 2008 .
alt=Close-up photo of a metal spoon filled with a viscous , clear purple fluid
Purple drank is a slang term for a recreational drug popular in the hip hop community in the southern United States , originating in Houston  ,  Texas  .
Its main ingredient is prescription -strength cough syrup containing codeine and promethazine .
खांसी  syrup is typically mixed with ingredients such as Sprite soft  पेय   or  Mountain Dew and pieces of Jolly Rancher candy .
The purplish hue of  जामुनी   पिया  comes from dyes  in  the cough syrup .
There are numerous slang terms for purple  पिया  , including sizzurp , lean , syrup , drank , barre , purple jelly  ,   टेक्सास  tea , and Tsikuni .
First/given , middle , and last/family/surname diagram  साथ  J. S. Bach as example .
J. S. Bach shared his given name with six immediate family members  और  many extended family members .
He shared his family name with most family members .
A given name , in Western contexts often referred to as a first name , is a personal name that  specifies  and differentiates between members  of  a group of individuals , especially in a family , all of whose members usually share the same family name ( surname ) .
A given name is purposefully given , usually by a child 's parents at or near birth , in contrast  to  an inherited one such as a family name .
A given name is  sometimes  legally changed through a  नाम  change .
Given names are often used in a familiar and friendly manner in informal situations .
In more formal situations the surname is  प्रयुक्त  instead , unless it is necessary to distinguish between people  साथ  the same surname  .
The idiom `` on a first-name basis ''  (  or `` on first-name terms '' ) alludes to the familiarity of  संबोधित  another by a given name .
The western style of  having  both a  परिवार  name ( surname ) and a given name is far from universal  .
In many countries it  is  common for ordinary people  to  have only  एक  name ( a mononym ) .
Hydrochloric acid is a clear , colourless solution of hydrogen chloride ( H Cl ) in water  .
It  is  a  अत्यधिक  corrosive ,  दमदार  mineral acid with many industrial uses  .
Hydrochloric  एसिड  is found naturally in gastric acid .
historically  called muriatic acid , and spirits  of  salt , hydrochloric acid  थी  produced from vitriol  (  sulfuric acid ) and common salt .
It first appeared during the Renaissance , and then it was used by chemists such as Glauber , Priestley and Davy in their scientific research .
With major production starting  in  the Industrial Revolution , hydrochloric acid is used in  the  chemical  उद्योग  as a chemical reagent in the large-scale production of  विनाइल  chloride  लिये  PVC  प्लास्टिक  , and MDI / TDI for  polyurethane  .
It  रै  numerous  smaller-scale  applications , including household cleaning ,  उत्पादन  of gelatin and other food additives , descaling , and  चमड़े  processing .
About 20 million tonnes of hydrochloric acid are produced annually .
Wheat ( Triticum spp  .  )  is   a  cereal grain , originally  इससे  the Levant region  of  the Near East and Ethiopian  हाइलैंड्स  , but now cultivated worldwide .
In 2010 , world production of wheat was 651 million  टन  , making it the third  most-produced  cereal after maize ( 844  लाख  tons ) and rice ( 672 million tons )  .
Wheat was the second most-produced cereal in 2009 ; world production in that year was 682 million tons , after maize ( 817  लाख  tons  )  ,  और   साथ  rice as a  बंद  third  (  679 million tons ) .
This grain is grown on more land area than any other commercial food .
World trade in  गेहूं  is greater than for all other crops combined .
Globally , wheat  is  the leading source of  सब्ज़ी   प्रोटीन  in human food ,  having  a  उच्चतर   प्रोटीन  content than soybeans or the other major cereals , maize ( corn ) or rice .
In terms of total production  tonnages  used for food , it is currently second to rice as the main human  खाना  crop and ahead of maize , after allowing  लिये  maize 's  अधिक  extensive use in animal feeds .
Wheat was a key factor enabling the emergence of  city-based  societies at the start of civilization because it was  एक  of the first crops that could be  easily  cultivated on a large scale , and had the additional advantage of yielding a harvest that provides long-term storage  of  food .
Wheat contributed to the emergence  of  city-states in the Fertile Crescent , including the Babylonian and Assyrian empires .
Wheat grain is a staple food used to make  आटा  for leavened  ,  flat and  steamed  breads , biscuits , cookies  ,  cakes , breakfast cereal , pasta , noodles , couscous  और  for  fermentation  to make beer ,  अन्य  alcoholic beverages ,  or  biofuel .
गेहूं  is planted to a limited extent as a forage crop for  पशुधन  , and  इसके  straw can be used as a construction material for roofing thatch .
The whole grain can be milled to leave just the endosperm for white flour .
The by-products of this are bran and germ  .
The  पूरे  grain is a concentrated source  of  vitamins  ,   खनिज  , and protein , while the refined grain is  ज़्यादातर  starch  .
Printing
To publish is  to  make content  उपलब्धियाँ  to the general  पब्लिक  .
While specific use of the term may  vary  among countries , it  is  usually applied  to  text , images , or other audio-visual content on any  परंपरागत   मीडियम  , including paper ( newspapers , magazines , catalogs , etc . ) .
The word publication means the act of publishing , and also refers to any printed copies .
Melissa &  जॉय  is an ABC Family original television series starring Melissa Joan Hart and Joey Lawrence .
It first aired  on  ABC Family on August 17 , 2010 .
The series follows local politician Mel Burke (  मेलिसा  Joan Hart ) and  जो   longo  ( Joey  लॉरेंस  ) , whom Mel hires to look after her niece and nephew after a Ponzi scheme  पत्ते  him broke  .
the   श्रेणी  was  नवीनीकृत  by ABC Family for a second season of fifteen episodes , which began airing on May 30 , 2012 and ended on August 29 , 2012 .
Melissa & Joey ranks as cable  tv  's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock across target audiences 18–34 , 18–49 and  12–34  demographics .
On August 17 , 2012  ,   एबीसी  Family renewed Melissa &  जॉय   लिये  a third season , set to premiere in spring 2013 .
The Dharma wheel , often used to  represent   the  Noble Eightfold Path
The Noble Eightfold Path ( , ) is one of  the  principal  शिक्षाओं   of  the Buddha , who described it as the way leading to the cessation of suffering ( dukkha ) and  the  achievement of self-awakening .
It  is  used to develop insight into the true nature of phenomena ( or reality ) and  to   eradicate  greed , hatred , and delusion .
The Noble Eightfold Path is the fourth of the Buddha 's Four Noble Truths ; the first element of the Noble Eightfold Path is , in turn , an  समझना  of the Four  प्रतिष्ठित  Truths .
It is  भी  known as the Middle Path or Middle Way .
All eight elements of the Path begin with the word `` right '' ,  जिससे  translates the word samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in Pāli ) .
These denote completion  ,  togetherness , and coherence , and can also suggest the senses of `` perfect ''  or  `` ideal '' .
'Samma '  is  also translated as `` wholesome '' ,  ``  wise '' and `` skillful '' .
In Buddhist symbolism , the  प्रतिष्ठित  Eightfold Path is often represented  by   अर्थात्  of the dharma wheel ( dharmachakra ) , whose eight spokes represent the eight elements of the  पाथ  .
The  ग्रैमी   पुरस्कार  for Song of the Year is an honor presented  at  the Grammy Awards , a ceremony that was established in 1958 and originally called the Gramophone  पुरस्कार  .
Awards  in  several categories are distributed annually by  the  National Academy of  रिकॉर्डिंग  Arts and Sciences of the United States to ``  सम्मान  artistic achievement , technical proficiency and  overall  excellence in the recording industry  ,  without regard to album sales or chart position . ''
Economics is the social science that  analyzes  the production  ,  distribution , and consumption of goods and services .
The term  अर्थशास्त्र  comes  इससे  the Ancient Greek ( ' , `` management of a household , administration ''  )  from ( ' , `` house '' ) + ( ' , `` custom  ''  or `` law '' ) , hence `` rules of the  हाउस  ( hold ) '' .
Political economy was the earlier name for the subject , but economists in the  लेट  19th century suggested `` economics '' as a shorter term for  ``  economic science '' that also avoided a narrow political-interest connotation and as similar  in  form to ``  गणित  `` , `` ethics ''  ,  and so forth .
A  फ़ोकस  of the subject is how  आर्थिक  agents behave or interact and how economies work .
Consistent with this , a primary textbook distinction is between microeconomics  और  macroeconomics .
Microeconomics examines the behavior  of  basic elements in the economy  ,  including  व्यक्तिगत  agents ( such as households and firms  or  as buyers and  विक्रेता  ) and markets ,  और  their interactions .
Macroeconomics analyzes the entire economy and issues affecting it , including unemployment , inflation , economic growth , and monetary and fiscal  नीति  .
Other broad distinctions include those between positive economics ( describing ``  कया  is '' ) and normative economics (  वकालत  `` what  ought  to be '' ) ; between economic  सिद्धान्त  and  लागू   अर्थशास्त्र  ; between rational and behavioral economics  ;  and between mainstream economics ( more ``  परंपरागत   ''  and dealing with the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus '' ) and heterodox economics  (  more `` radical '' and dealing with the `` institutions-history-social structure nexus '' )  .
Economic analysis may be applied throughout society , as  in  business , finance  ,  health care , and government , but also to such diverse subjects as crime  ,  education  ,  the family , law , politics , religion , social institutions , war , and science .
At the turn of the 21st century , the expanding domain of economics in the social sciences has been described as economic  साम्राज्यवाद  .
An increasing number  of  economists have  पुकारा  for increased emphasis on environmental  स्थिरता  ; this area of research is known as Ecological economics .
This is a list of Schedule IV drugs  अंतर्गत  the  नियंत्रित  Substances Act for  the  United States .
जरूरी   निष्कर्षों  for drugs to be placed  in  this schedule:
The drug or  अन्य  substance has a low potential for abuse relative  to  the drugs or other substances in schedule III .
The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical  उपयोग  in treatment in the United  राज्य  .
Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to limited  शारीरिक  dependence or psychological dependence  सापेक्ष  to the drugs or other substances  in  schedule III .
The complete  सूची  of Schedule IV drugs are as follows  .
The  प्रशासनिक  Controlled Substances Code Number  लिये   प्रत्येक  drug  is  included .
US county household median income 2009 .
Median US household income , 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly used  by  the United States government and private institutions .
Each household is  measured   by  the income  of  every  निवासी  over the age of 15 .
Income includes wages and salaries , unemployment insurance ,  विकलांगता   भुगतान  , child support payments  प्राप्त  ,  नियमित  rental receipts , as well as any personal business , investment , or other kinds of income received routinely .
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real  ''  )  household  income had been increasing  लगभग  every year from 1945 to 1999 , it has since been flat and even decreased recently .
u.S.  median  household  income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502  in  2011 .
Extreme poverty  in  the United States  ,  meaning households living on less than $ 2 per day before government benefits , doubled from  1996  to 1.5  लाख  households in 2011 ,  सहित  2.8 million children .
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of the household for their earnings  to  be considered part of the household 's income .
As households tend to share a similar economic  कॉन्टेक्स्ट  ,  the  use of household income remains among the most widely accepted measures of income .
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into  खाता  in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations  भीतर  or among the household income categories , and may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible .
The lapse rate is defined as the rate of decrease with height for an atmospheric variable .
The variable involved is temperature  जबतक  specified otherwise .
The terminology arises from  the   शब्द  lapse in  the  sense of a  घटी  or decline .
While most often applied to Earth 's  माहौल  the concept can be  विस्तारित  to any gravitationally  समर्थित   बॉल  of gas .
Blue Mountain State is an American comedy series that premiered on Spike  on  January 11  ,  2010 .
The series  निर्माता  include  क्रिस  Romano and Eric Falconer , and it is produced by Lionsgate Television .
The series is about a  fictional  university , Blue Mountain State , and its football team ,  ``  The Mountain Goats . ''
It portrays certain aspects of  अमरीकी  university life , including football , sex , binge drinking , drugs , wild partying , and hazing  .
in  February  2012   ,  it was reported that Blue Mountain State would not be renewed for a fourth season .
In March 2013 , Ed Marinaro stated that he is working on  a  Blue Mountain State film .
Apple Inc. , formerly Apple Computer , Inc. , is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Cupertino , California that designs , develops , and sells consumer electronics , computer software and personal computers .
Its  best-known  hardware products are the Mac line of computers ,  the  iPod music player , the iPhone  स्मार्टफोन  , and the iPad tablet computer .
Its software includes the OS X and iOS operating systems , the iTunes media browser , the Safari  वेब  browser ,  और  the iLife and iWork creativity and production suites .
The company was founded on April 1 , 1976 , and incorporated as Apple Computer , Inc. on January  3  , 1977 .
The word `` Computer '' was removed from  इसके  name on January 9 , 2007 , reflecting its shifted focus towards consumer electronics after the introduction of  the  iPhone .
Apple is the world  's  second-largest information technology company by revenue after Samsung  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  , and the world 's third-largest mobile phone maker  बाद  Samsung  और   नोकिया  .
Fortune  पत्रिका  named Apple  the  most admired company in the United States  in  2008 ,  और  in  the  world  इससे  2008 to 2012 .
however  , the company has received criticism for its  ठेकेदारों  ' labor practices , and for Apple 's own environmental and business practices .
, Apple maintains 394 retail  स्टोर्स  in fourteen countries as well as the online Apple Store and iTunes Store .
It is the second-largest publicly traded corporation in the world by market capitalization , with an estimated value of US $ 414 billion as of January 2013 .
, the company had 72,800 permanent full-time employees and 3,300 temporary full-time employees worldwide .
Its worldwide annual revenue  in  2012 totalled $ 156 billion .
Section 8 housing in the South Bronx
Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1937 ( ) , often simply known as Section  8  , as repeatedly amended , authorizes the payment of rental housing assistance to private landlords on  निमित्त   of  approximately 3.1 million low-income households  .
It operates through several programs , the largest of which , the Housing Choice Voucher program , pays a large portion of the rents and utilities of about 2.1 million  households   .
The US Department  of  Housing and Urban Development manages the Section 8 programs .
The Housing Choice Voucher Program  provides   ``  tenant-based '' rental assistance , so a tenant can move from one unit of at least minimum housing quality to another .
It also allows individuals to apply their monthly voucher towards the purchase of a home , with over $ 17 billion going towards such purchases each year ( from ncsha.org analysis ) .
The maximum allowed voucher is  $  2200 a month .
Section 8 also authorizes a  किस्में  of `` project-based '' rental assistance programs , under which the owner  reserves  some or all of  the  units in a building for low-income tenants , in return for a Federal government guarantee to make up the difference between the tenant 's contribution and  the  rent for 1 cent in the owner 's contract with the government .
A tenant who  पत्ते  a subsidized project  होगा  lose access to the project-based subsidy .
The United States  विभाग  of Housing and Urban Development and United States Department of Veterans Affairs have a special  खण्ड  8 program called VASH ( Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing )  ,  or HUD-VASH , which  देता  out a certain number of Section 8 vouchers to eligible homeless and otherwise vulnerable US armed forces veterans .
Restaurants categorized by type and information about these different types .
U.S. Federal Reserve notes in the  mid-1990s
The history of the United States dollar covers more than 200 years  .
